ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u1	Dear Members and honourable Members, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the continuation of the 9th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and cannot attend today's meeting of the following Members and Members: Aurelio Juri, Geza Juban, Ferry Horvat by 1300 hours, Christian Janc, mag. Majda Potrat, Davorin Terchon by 4 p.m. and Janko Weber. We're going to break one. TIME OF DAY - PROPOSAL OF REBALANCE OF THE BUDGET OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA FOR 2005 Taking into account the debate already held at the extraordinary meeting on Thursday, 16.6.2005, Prime Minister Janez Janša will first present the budget balance. Then we will move on to the debate on the general part of the budget rebalancing and so on. I give the floor to the Prime Minister, Mr Janez Janša, to present the balance of the budget. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u2	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Members and Members, colleagues and colleagues! The preparation of the 2005 budget rebalancing was necessary due to certain expenditure that was not foreseen in the adopted budget and could not be covered simply by redistribution alone. In addition, in view of the new forecasts of macroeconomic indicators published by the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development in the spring forecast of economic developments, the 2005 budget revenues had to be re-evaluated. In doing so, I should like to stress that we are discussing the balance of the budget at a time when the first half of 2005 is due to expire; that the budget for 2004 and 2005 was adopted in 2003; that there are many funds hidden behind the figures you already have in the Rapporteur, either directly because the budget is valid and is being used, or indirectly through the burdens and overloads that many have already signed in last year. So, behind these numbers you have ahead of you, the actual means are far from as many as the numbers show, and we should be aware of that in the debates. At the beginning of the debate, the government had very little room for manoeuvre, and at the beginning of the discussion, Dr Andrej Bajuk, Minister of Finance, presented this very visual and concrete presentation. I would also like to point out that the adoption of the rebalancing is particularly urgent due to the use of European funds. In particular, the Ministry of Economy is redistributing certain funds into items needed to make European funds more efficient. Because of the complicated procedure we inherited due to the need for the publication of tenders, it is possible to measure the delay every day in the millions. I will re-present some of the key figures in the balance sheet below. These numbers have already been presented by the Minister of Finance. I'm sorry I wasn't here at the beginning of the debate. The timeline initially envisaged collapsed when, in my view, it was totally unnecessary to delay the meeting of the parent working body. The European Council, because of one meeting of the Slovenian Parliament's working body, will never postpone its meetings; this should also be taken into account in the future. But since it was such a wish, I will repeat these key reasons for such items in the balance sheet as you have before you and which have already been fully presented to me by the Minister of Finance. A considerable amount of revenue in the 2005 State budget balance is based on an assessment of tax bases or realised in 2004, on new macroeconomic baselines and also on the effects of amended legislation and other known factors affecting the level of revenue. The government in the budget rebalancing foresees 1,683 billion tolls of revenue, which is 63.9 billion dollars more than in the budget adopted. On the revenue side of the budget rebalancing, the government therefore expects an additional 20.6 billion tolls of tax revenue, from the planned in the current budget, due to the implementation of new accounting standards, higher corporate profits, due to better business in 2004. Furthermore, for 28.8 billion dollars more tax revenue, it is mainly excise duties, depending on the price of oil on the world market, for the euro, for the US dollar, for the further 1.8 billion more capital revenues and donations, and for 12.7 billion dollars more European funds. Revenue estimates are based on the assumption published by the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development in the spring forecast of economic developments in April. Nominal economic growth, nominally, will not be a mistake to reach 6.1 per cent, annual growth in consumer prices 2.5 per cent, nominal growth in private consumption 6.2%, nominal growth in public consumption 5.8 per cent, nominal growth in average gross wages per employee 5.6%, growth in the number of employees or more, payees 0.4 per cent, nominal growth in investments in fixed assets 7.1 per cent. In the assessment of budgetary expenditure, the government was based on the implementation of the 2004 budget and on the inflation forecast of 2.5%, as is the result of the spring forecast of economic trends. In this way, budget expenditure will increase by 43.7 billion to a total of 1 775 billion tolars compared to the budget adopted. Expenditure will be higher than planned due to higher payments to the European budget by 17.5 billion tolars and will rise to 90.3 billion tolars in total. Other expenditure is mainly due to the fact that the government had to provide an additional 70 billion dollars for the commitments planned by the previous government and was not provided for in this year's budget. The government thus had to provide additional resources in the balance sheet for those purposes where they were planned to be too small or not planned at all. Thus, it provided additional $9.4 billion for the salaries and contributions of employees in the state administration and an additional 23.8 billion for the salaries of employees in public institutions, mainly in primary and secondary schools. More money is also provided for transfers to individuals, maintenance of railway infrastructure, settlement of anticipated repayments, guarantees and investments at the Schengen border. Reserves for natural disasters are also increasing. However, the government managed to raise the total amount of investment resources compared to the 2004 increase of 23% to 32 billion tolars, which is significantly more than last year. With the 2005 budget rebalancing, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia remains committed to joining the European Monetary Union in 2007, with a budget deficit of 91.9 billion tolars, representing 1.4% of gross domestic product. The government has thus managed to reduce the projected deficit by more than 20 billion tolars. The government is thus continuing with economic policy measures that will ensure that convergence criteria are met in the next two-year period and are defined in addition to the convergence programme, which, in addition to the prescribed content, also summarises the commitments made by the Republic of Slovenia at the time of entry into the ERM 2. Slovenia is continuing to meet these criteria with the 2005 budget rebalancing. In the public financial area, under the expected macroeconomic situation, the government's objective is achieved, as the main precondition has been reached, namely to reduce the budget deficit from 112 billion to 91.9 billion, or 1.4 percent, of the gross domestic product. It also reduces the structural deficit of the budget, from 1.32% of GDP last year to 1.3% of GDP this year. By 2007, the country's deficit under the current macroeconomic scenario was expected to decrease to 1.2% of GDP. The planned objectives will be achieved by the government by gradually restructuring government expenditure and revenue in a way that will contribute more to the competitiveness of the economy and economic growth, while at the same time adapting the total amount of expenditure to the target deficit. The debt of the wider sector of the country will not exceed 31% of GDP during that period. Your Honor! Once again, I would like to point out that this year's budget rebalancing is remedial, but the government has consistently taken into account the constraints imposed on us by the euro takeover. In this way, we want to meet the key phase objective ahead of us, that is to meet all the conditions for entry into the European Monetary Union and to take over the euro at the beginning of 2007. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u3	Thank you, Prime Minister. We are moving on to the general part of the proposal for a budget rebalancing. Who wants a word? Mr. Squeakle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u4	Thank you very much. Mr President, Prime Minister, Members and Members, Ministers, Secretary of State. In my debate on the general part of the budget, I would like in particular to highlight the next key issue. Today, under this item on the agenda, we will consider the budget rebalancing and then two more points, namely the law on the implementation of the budget and the law on the takeover of the pension and health allowance debt. In the framework of the law on the implementation of the budget, we will also address the issue of increased principality, which means that in today's debate we will touch on all four public funding envelopes. In this regard, I would like to inform the Prime Minister that the process of adopting the national budget balance is subject to the same procedure as the adoption of the state budget. Therefore, the Prime Minister should introduce the documents transmitted by the Government. Among these documents is usually the structure of all four cash registers. Today we are considering a proposal for a state budget rebalancing, and in the meantime we will raise principals by 10%, and then by 45 billion we will take over the debt of pensions and health bills. All of this will have an important impact on public finances in Slovenia, on the structure of the whole if you want tax liabilities. That is why I am interested, and this is what we expected to hear from the Prime Minister, at the end of the year following the government's assessment of this state budget balance, by taking over the long pension and health allowance, by some other laws and by raising the principals, a public financial picture. This is particularly important because normally the Prime Minister presents his views on economic policy in such discussions. The economic policy that we are leading through the four cash registers and through a number of other government activities, but we have not heard about it today. We heard a repeat of Thursday's debate. We therefore regret that the Prime Minister has not presented this. It would be good to. We may hear this further in the debate, but it is extremely difficult to decide in the context of the debate on the general part of the budget on the State budget balance without hearing an introduction to what is the public financial situation. Could it not be better, because of the situation in Slovenia we are in, we can do something about tax revenues. Could it not be better to propose, due to the decline in economic growth, something else in this budget balance to change tax revenues or to change contributions to pension or health allowance? This is usually what government presidents represent when they present either the state budget or the state budget balance. In this regard, there is only one small observation. However, I would like to remind the President that in the second reading, after hearing the introductory words we did not hear, the mother's working body must draw up a balance of the state budget in some substantive discussion. If there is a discussion for the Prime Minister on the 77 amendments that are trying to correct the state budget's balance and put it back in those frameworks that would allow Slovenia to accelerate economic growth, delay work, then, of course, it does not understand the relationship between the government and the state council with regard to the budget. Everywhere in the world, the National Assembly or Parliament is a key budgetary authority. It is unacceptable, in my opinion, to hold a two-month debate led by the government through a discussion that you had at first in the Sunny Primorska during the first May holidays, when you coordinated with the Ministry of Finance and then at several meetings of both the coalition and the government, in the five hours of the mother's working body. We regretted that the President of the National Assembly and the Chairman of the Finance Committee had convened a meeting in such a way that we should have only five hours of time. This, as you know, has not been enough time and, of course, there has been a breakdown. But the fact that the European Council will not move is true. But you know, Mr President, we did not call on the topic of the rebalancing on Thursday, it was convened by the President of the National Assembly, and we also regretted that you did not first make the opening presentation, which should be on the content of economic policy, and therefore the Minister of Finance for your presentation. Today, however, we have heard a repeat of the Minister's discussion, which is why, of course, we are not satisfied with this. We expect Mr President of the Government to say something else and then we will be able to continue the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u5	Thank you, Mr. Squeakle. Mr Barovic has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u6	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues, good day to you, lovely sunny day. Dear fellow ministers! It's nice to be together. Of course, the explanation of the proposal is in the general part as it is, and here I am not going to turn to certain elements, where I could just now, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, not turn. But I think it's a very important question, not a claim, not an assumption, without being smart, very on the spot. Among the funds received from the European Union in the general part under item 2.1.4 are the figures: 115 billion tolars projected at the total amount of structural and cohesion policy planned at almost 37 billion. The Schengen sources are assumptions. All well and well, and we can also understand that these are funds provided and provided from such or other agreed sources from the past period. In view of what has happened, respected colleagues from the government have been involved in resolving the financial perspective, and in the Slovenian National Party we doubt that all of this is true. Therefore, we ask ourselves not to think: Whether the numbers in 2.1.4 are related to the adoption of the European Constitution, as in the formulation of the financial perspective for the future period, but nevertheless, I say that it is related to this period, whether these numbers hold, can we rely on them or not? You know, with all due respect, 20 billion savings is a very nice number. But if this is not done because of the events and events that we know little about at this time, then we have done nothing but spend hours and hours and hours. Another question I'd like to answer. I respect the work of the Ministry of Health, I try, but we have been warned at a day and night session at a large, nominally, a lack of resources for the development of health, which I believe we all want to develop. I just want to know if it is nominally, once again, I say, what we have experienced in the work of the Finance Committee is real compared to the fact that the Ministry has a vision of investing, I don't know, private capital, investing European capital, because these things, I think once again 2 and once 1.7 billion are not so easy to replace. These are two issues that I would not like to comment on the opinion of the Slovenian National Party, because we want to be convinced first. Thanks for the answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u7	Thank you, Mr. Barovich. Mr. Bajc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u8	Thank you, Mr. President. A nice greeting also, on my behalf, to the Prime Minister and to the representatives of the government. In his previous explanation or performance, he used the plural and said, "We've been expecting, we're expecting," I'm going to try to use or discuss the same thing. Last week, we adopted a draft agenda for an extraordinary meeting at which we have three agenda items: dealing with the budget balance, the law on the implementation of the budget and the commitment of the two treasury bills. I think today, in his performance and in anticipation of what he said, we were expecting, he also mentioned these two agenda items. I think that last week, and also on Friday, when we are due to continue on the afternoon of the 1st item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the general part of the budget rebalancing, and then we have indeed decided, and together, I will say, I will agree, regardless of the fact that it has been agreed a little differently that we will listen to the Prime Minister at today's meeting, who, as we said on Friday, to present a proposal for a budget rebalancing. I think that, as my colleague Cvikl said, we have actually listened to the Minister of Finance last week, who presented to us a proposal for a rebalancing of the general budget, and I think that the Prime Minister can't really say anything other than what was written down or what the Minister of Finance has also presented to us last week or told us. Now, I will say, but I expect that, in the plenary session, when we consider the general and specific part of the budget balance, there will not be a repeat of a meeting of the Committee on Finance, which lasted more than 30 hours and where there have been repeated, repeated and repeated cases. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u9	Thank you, Mr. Baitz. Mr. Mikolitch has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Well-regarded Prime Minister, Madam Ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I understand that we are discussing the general part of the budget rebalancing, so in my debate I will somehow refer to the debates that took place on the working body and for the last time here at the presentation of the positions of individual parliamentary groups. Initially, I strongly reject any consideration expressed on the labour market or the need for a rebalancing, given that there is a 40th section of the Public Finance Act or the possibility of preliminary measures if it is found that the implementation of the budget will deviate significantly from the adopted one. I always put in first place the principle that the budget must be transparent and new macroeconomic frameworks and commitments that were not adopted or planned in the budget in 2003, in fact, all this legally requires us to correct the budget so that the final accounts for this year for 2005 do not deviate significantly from the budget adopted. The mere fact that implementation in 2004 in certain items or areas deviates significantly from the planned ones, speaks to this in favour, and in the proposed rebalancing, the government also wants to implement the planned activities in 2005. Why am I talking about this? Because some members of the opposition at the marathon session of the mother's working body had great problems with comparisons as to how much the former government has committed to each area and how much the current government is committed to. You know, the purpose is achieved or completed when it is finally realized. If some were to focus more on the implementation of the budget in 2004 and not only on numbers, but also on the content of the proposed balance, they would finally find that they have no arguments in terms of comparisons with previous years, that we are making less funding in the balance sheet for certain areas identified by the opposition. You know, for me, if I could say so under the terms, it was considered that if the funds were planned in the budget, they were not spent. As you may recall, I have already had a critical debate on the adoption of the 2003 accounts. And of course, criticism flies at the expense of poor or incompetent planning. Of course, in the same breath, I must mention that there is an even greater sin if the financial resources have been realized, but the proceeds have not been real or the funds have been thrown aside or a handful of people have taken advantage of them. And that, honourable Members, has been too much in the past period. With the proposed rebalancing, the government wants to cut into those areas that are essential to achieving the objectives set out in the Coalition Treaty and will contribute to stable economic development and balanced public consumption. It is true that not all the priorities of the new government have yet been included in the prepared balance due to time constraints. However, implementation of the budget will be possible without limitation and major reallocation. The balance sheet is certainly a good basis for drawing up the 2006 and 2007 budget. With the proposed rebalancing, local communities are pleased, for after a few years of unheard warning, it finally happened that he would devote more financial resources to the municipalities. And that's what the new government did. It is obvious that the balance sheet is not development-oriented. 32 billion is more earmarked for investments than was realised in 2004. In the past, however, unfortunately, too much investment has been redistributed over the course of the year for current consumption and there is therefore no argument that the balance sheet is less development-oriented than the budgets of previous years. I'm saying it's the other way around. The funds allocated to an active employment policy are being reduced, which is not good, you explain, respected colleagues and colleagues from the opposition. But I have to say, you're talking in your head. Last year, $17.2 billion was spent on this purpose, this year being spent by the new government of 20.6 billion, 20% more than was realized in the previous year. And I believe that the question, if this is still being used, is that the situation of unemployment has changed. It would be logical to discuss the financial resources allocated to this area by those who know the content and, above all, the measures taken under the active employment policy. And if the taxpayer's money was spent anywhere without real effect, then he must have been here. I trust the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, which has taken a firm position that money is not being shared in this way, but the Ministry must have the tools designed to measure the effectiveness of the financial resources invested in order to measure or identify financial effects. We know very well that in the past, a number of tolars intended for a particular measure have been re-analysed for some other unfair and illegal purpose. The government has decided, and it is also not to throw money at various political botts, and this money has been under the concept of an active employment policy or something else poured into the pockets of various entrepreneurs, speculators. European funds are included in the so-called integrated budget. It is obvious that we are reducing domestic resources at the expense of Europeans, particularly in the area covered by the Ministry of Economy. That's what you say. You are probably neglecting that we also have to contribute to the European treasury. And there's one more thing. Calls for more successful economic development to be expected only if we devote more resources to technological development. Of course we all know that. Again, we probably do not all know that the same rules as I mentioned earlier apply to active employment policies. The final effect is important. How much added value will we get on the service or the product will bring us these three, five, six, or 10 billion, or all of this will be wrapped up in a fog somewhere. On this subject, it has been heard many times by the Minister of the Economy and the Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology on appropriate solutions to maximise the impact. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u11	Thank you, Mr. Mikolitch. Mr. Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u12	Thank you so much for saying that. First of all, I would like to say that I am surprised by the surprises of the gentlemen of Liberal Democracy, Cicicle, Gabra, Gantar and other former top representatives of the former government. Some of you have also drawn up the 2003 budget, and I am particularly surprised by the things you have expressed in the rebalancing process so far. We have experienced these strange reactions both at the meetings of the committees and at this plenary session. I am particularly surprised that this is about your budget, which needs to be corrected due to changed circumstances and changes in the most important indicators, which are the starting points for determining the budgetary framework. This first raises the question of the relevance of two-year budgets, which are not very common in European practice, and this confirms, in fact, that the former coalition has been prone to various specificities, to specific approaches, in all areas. For example, the introduction of a high and non-life sentence, such as the introduction of a unique and expensive label and so on, can be assessed. Although there is nothing special about the balance in the normal, business and political world, of course if the situation is normal and if the healthy spirit and sober view prevail. However, it must be established that the situation is not entirely normal. In some political parties, internal problems have arisen that do not exist with sufficient will. And that's why he's trying to move the inner party battle outside into the National Assembly and pull the entire state sphere into it. This is how I assess all these procedures, which are linked to the budget's rebalancing, all these endless, unproductive, sometimes offensive and inconclusive debates and the causing of time distress. And I wonder if these are acts of seriousness and wisdom or childishness. I myself believe that this is a very irresponsible conduct by one of the parliamentary parties, who obviously has nothing else to do with the programme, such as obstructing the work of the National Assembly and obstructing the necessary corrections to the laws and financial plans. And apparently, in some parties, you haven't been able to get rid of the "overkill" we've been witnessing for decades, and that didn't do much good. The debate that has taken place these days has shown why the previous coalition has not been able to lead and manage countries. Especially because she did not have the right leader and all the real politics was led by informal leaders, not one, but more. And the formal prime minister was just the Prime Minister of protocol. And the same problem has happened again in the shadow government. The former government, just as we have witnessed these days, has become involved in fruitless debates that have not produced any results. And the only measurable result was mainly the use of time or a better waste of time. We, to be very frank, are not in favour of the technology of fruitless debates and proving who is smarter in this absurd battle. And we'll avoid that in the future. There is also the absence of any strategy, which is also seen in the positions on the balance, where it was not needed at first, and then you put in dozens of amendments and requested even extraordinary meetings where you justified your needs, demands and so on. It is also very interesting that so far the coalition and current opposition MPs have suddenly revived very much. Earlier, although some of you have been Members for ten or more years, you have not noticed anything. Since last December, you have suddenly seen thousands of problems, community feeding, problems in education, health problems, and so on. You have previously oppressed congregations, institutions, forgotten knowledge, the media, and today you find and reinforce this with amendments, how they are actually nourished. And apparently it doesn't take much to overlook it. I could still list things like this. If we look at the reasons for the rebalancing and the press presentations that the ministers had had and make a comparison between the budget and the rebalancing, then we see that, in the previous mandate, there was a lot of cheap populism that the former government has sold to citizens for many years, and this has been successful. When it was necessary to show an investment attitude, you deliberately forgot to write down some 20 billion wage funds and moved them often to imaginary investments. These have not come true anyway, and so some 10 billion less investments were made each year than were planned. And in the final account there was neither the spirit nor the hearing of any developmental attitude. For example, you promised the Prekmurks early start and completion of works on their highway leg, even though at your suggestion only a month earlier we adopted a national programme in which we recorded sections with completely different dates. To change the financial flow this way, you've completely ignored it. Despite the fact that we had a two-year budget, accompanied by a five-year development programme plan, lease agreements were concluded, in some cases concluded even in 2015, after three mandates. And you've charged budgets for 10 or more years. Everything was presented much more beautifully than it really was. So this is a very unusual approach. However, we can also peacefully conclude that so far there has not been a financial year that would normally end. All the time has been too short on the revenue side and too long on the expenditure side. Therefore, the revenue side should also be extended until February of the following year and the expenditure cut and concluded already in October. Sometimes, or usually, it happened both at the same time. And there is no need to stress the impact this has had on investments, on budgetary users, on municipalities, on the reputation of the country as the largest public fund manager. Last year, for example, we experienced a part of the tax reform, this year it was established, and the consequences will be felt mainly next year when the income decisions come. We could say she was in an accident. There are groups that are not happy and protesting - students, culturers, craftsmen and so on. And even the current government culturers - there are still quite a few present in this house - have made it possible for their or Robb's government to strike right at the culturers and their fees and put them in a much more unfavourable situation. This year will be a difficult year for them, as well as for small entrepreneurs, for manufacturers of domestic and artificial crafts and for others. Something similar is happening to athletes who have even struck. However, neither Rob nor the ministers of his government were able to respond to these protests and the targets became Minister Bajuk and Zver. That's interesting. However, I must commend the current government that, despite being unable to do almost anything to correct taxes, it has at least corrected certain laws that have cost citizens their lives. For example, the removal of stickers, the cost of notary services, the removal of some bureaucratic obstacles, and perhaps more. It is likely that some such corrections will be made this year, reducing human costs and making their lives easier. Not only tax corrections or reductions, but also the reduction and elimination of other duties affects the real standard of citizens. At the end of last year, a large capital escape was also launched, as the largest transition businessmen were not prepared to pay the introduced abnormally high capital taxes. And we can only ask ourselves if it was perhaps even a deliberate outflow of capital in this case. In practice, we have also faced efficiency, particularly in the field of investment. Although the planned investments were extremely high, the realisation was very poor, let's say last year only 138 billion, the reduction was essential. This year, around 25% more is planned for investments in terms of last year's realisation. I must say that we are all particularly disappointed that it was worse than the expected drawback and the possible drawback of European funds. In an area in which, at least as follows from the debate, the opposition shows the greatest surplus of knowledge, this is a European story, which we have learned through this debate in the National Assembly, has been used very poorly and far below the rights available. If there had not been so many civilised agriculture and, in recent times, quite ill-treated agricultural ministers, such poor use would have been significantly worse. And that, despite the fact that most of the other departments were led by the people of Liberal Democracy. Particularly in charge of the European field was the current Member of Parliament, Mr Cvikl, who, now that the story is being built on improving European resources, has now become particularly concerned. If we had been more successful, there might have been some kind of error, anomalousness in the records, but the net effect of joining the European Union would have been significantly better. And I find that you had a very big problem when you had to go into action. At the same time, perhaps only a word about activities, even though it was extremely low on this European story, Mr Squeakl, in only a half a year, spent more than 9 and a half million tolars on airline tickets, practically to Hanoi. Interesting! In fact, I must say that I am very happy to correct the resources that this government devotes to the congregations by increasing the appropriate consumption, which is up by almost 10% at the starting point and with which it will help especially the small ones or by your registered congregations. Previously, with a low level of consumption, it was primarily intended to crush small congregations and force them to initiate a merger process. I hope that the municipalities will use these funds in part to cover the obligations transferred and legally imposed, and in part they may remain for investment. Here we also see a piece on this one of the cash registers that can be poured into improving the situation in particular areas. We can also see that, in the mandates ahead of us, there was an extremely poor profitability of tax revenues, no review or concealment of the situation of the debtors, and no one publishes them, because they were not in the public interest before, as they were obviously not in the public interest, and many of them were even recipients of additional public funds. Interestingly, even research media is not involved. Payments to state cash registers, pensions and health care were also very unsupervised. Many who retire or retire do not even know what they have or will have low pensions. The budget covers the deficit in the pension and health treasury, in short, the heritage in this area is not promising. The same is true of social transfers. In fact, many are the result of performances and performances of wages and ways of paying wages. A lot of the obligations left in the success story have also arisen from court decisions, from trials lost by the State against individuals and companies, but failed to pay them. As a result, the amounts bear still high late interest. One of these, for example, is a fund of craftsmen and entrepreneurs, which needs to be returned to several billion. In short, however we turn the budget story, things need to be put in place, on solid foundations and start to work more seriously. Today is the first opportunity to make some necessary adjustments with the adoption of the balance. However, I have to say that it is difficult to put a good project on a bad financial basis, only balancings and calculations are possible, especially if we know that there has been considerable over-the-counter use of rights, which means that much of this balance is already spent or cemented by contracts. The additions that have been invested in this budget and invested by the opposition are, in my opinion, a reflection of the weaknesses of the previous government, which would not only easily put the budget into place, but also have been realized, because it had long held the strength of arguments and also the arguments of power at the same time. Of course, the current government would eliminate any more disturbing imbalances and everything would turn out to be even more developmental, let's say if it decided to do a little bit more debt, but in this case other objectives, higher targets and, above all, a target through entry into the common monetary market would be jeopardised. However, we can see that there is still a whole range of deficits because the remaining funds in the various affairs that have arisen were part of the budget, the direct budget, partly for the resources of the budgetary users, but in any case they were lost large public funds, which were not found in any financial plan, but poured into individual selected accounts. And there might be stories like that somewhere else. As these things need to be rectified, I hope that there will also be some other procedures that may help to ensure that these funds return to the budget or other cash registers and that we will also try to defuse the budget with these indevelopment resources and to make more use of the funds collected by the taxpayers for the other development needs of this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u13	Thank you, Mr. Tank. Mr. Squeakle Replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u14	I would ask the President, on a procedural basis, if, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 75, the Head of the Group of Members would point out that today is not a discussion of, I don't know, political parties' issues, but of the budget's rebalancing. If we could do that, because otherwise we will discuss something else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u15	You didn't answer for the replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u16	Replica, very briefly. Mr Head of the Parliamentary Group is not yours, not our budget, but is the budget of Slovenian taxpayers. It's accepted by the National Assembly. Second of all, European affairs. On 1 May 2004, we became a member of the EU. By 1 May 2007, the EU procedures will draw on the European funds made available from 3 May on Monday, 2004. During the first half of the year, those funds were drawn up which are procedurally possible and as agreed. In the second half of the first year of EU membership, I propose that the Minister of Finance may reply to how much funding has been drawn. I would suggest that European funds be discussed by experts, not by politicians. Perhaps it is best to buy a book on how to get to the EU, I have it with me, and then you discuss these substantive issues. [[....]] [[The ad from the bench.]] With regard to airline tickets, I propose that the Office of Budgets [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u17	Please, Mr. Squeakle has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u18	With regard to airline tickets, I propose that the Office of Budgetary Control carry out all so-called audits. [[...]] Last year, this Office of Budgetary Control was still independent and independent. Since you passed the Law on Public Servants, there is no longer, so I suggest that there is also a review of the 2004 budget inspection for the government service for European Affairs. Therefore, I do not think it makes any sense to discuss this today. I propose that we discuss this at the end of the account. The dilemma to which I did not receive an answer, except that you were indirectly responding, but some others, of course, is that it is in accordance with the Preparation Regulation, the Regulation on [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] The Government's substantive debate on economic and financial policy is always based on the preparation of the State budget proposal. [[..]] And formally today, the government is proposing a budget rebalancing based on a budget memorandum adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in March, April 2003. We therefore expected at least the Prime Minister's statement that the Prime Minister would tell us what are the key economic and public financial policies that are at the heart of the state budget's rebalancing. We didn't hear that except we heard some of you insinuating something here that can't be insinuated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u19	Thank you. Mr Veršnik is next on the list of panellists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u20	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Greetings to the Prime Minister, ministers and honourable Members and Members of Parliament. Your Honors are here! I wonder when the budget or the balance with which we were all satisfied was adopted. As I know, this has never happened before, and I'm sure it will never happen. We have before us the 2005 budget rebalancing, which was adopted in December 2003. I believe that the preparers were trying to prepare the best budget, although they already knew that it would also need to be corrected, as they also wrote in Article 52 of the 2004/2005 ZIPRIS. But they certainly did not know that the government would change in the meantime, so the new ministers were awaiting the following task after the review of the state of the Ministry: this is the preparation of the 2005 rebalancing that is now ahead of us. The new ministers had to and could only make the necessary adjustments to their planned tasks and the changed situation in 2005. The reasons for this are still repeated black holes, we are talking about the 70 billion that have emerged on the railway, in education, in Revos, in Schengen and so on. In drawing up the 2005 budget rebalancing in terms of fiscal transparency, we cannot therefore expect any greater qualitative shifts from the 2005 budget itself, as major changes in transparency and the content of budgetary spending planning take time to prepare such tasks professionally, including computer programmes and directing government officials towards more modern solutions. However, it is not possible to agree with the allegations demagogued by fellow opposition members that the 2005 budget rebalancing makes the country's macro-fiscal position worse, as the data of the rebalancing should be assessed more from the point of view of the 2004 actually realised items than from the point of view of the 2005 budget itself, which was adopted in December 2003. I would also like to substantiate this claim with data, although some fellow Members have already mentioned them before me. If we look at the investment expenditure item defined in the current budget of 93 billion, the realisation of 2004 was only 70 billion or only 75%. The proposal for the current balance is 82 billion, which means 17% more investment expenditure than the former government was able to realise in 2004. Let's look at investment transfers, which are defined in the current budget of 86 billion, and the realisation of 2004 was 69 billion, which means only 79% of the realisation. The current rebalancing proposal is 88.7 billion, which means 28% more investment transfers than the former government was able to implement in 2004. A similar situation is found in the subsidy item, which according to the current budget is set at 76 billion, the realisation of 2004 was 72.6 billion or 95%. The current rebalancing proposal under the subsidy item is 80 billion, which means that in the current government's rebalancing, 10% more subsidies than the former government has managed to realise in the past year. As the former government took care of the country, we heard about the opening of the border crossing of Gruškova days ago, when we heard in public education that they had allowed themselves to make the transition to choose not the most favourable contractor, which was why we were deprived of 900 million European grants. In particular, the chapter on such a great deal of concern for the development of the economy presents a report on the funds received from the EU Funds in 2004. Let's take a look at some data. Pre-accession funds: 21 billion envisaged, 10.8 or 51% realized. The funds received from the EU budget for the implementation of the common agricultural policy: 11.2 billion were foreseen, 5.5 billion or 41% were actually realised. The following are the funds received from the EU budget for structural policy: envisaged 7.7 billion, realisation - nothing. Amounts received from the Cohesion Policy budget: estimated 6.6 billion, realisation - nothing. The funds received from the EU budget for the implementation of internal policy: 2.2 billion were planned, realisation - nothing again. Such a situation in the area of EU funds is a failure to meet its own development objectives and a shift from the substantive objectives for the new financial perspective. The poor implementation of EU funds must be attributed to the weaknesses of institutional and human resources nature. For the year 2005, it is important that sufficient quality projects are prepared in time for us to run for the funds available to us in Brussels. The absorption of these funds, however, is a developmental option for us that we must not miss in any way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u21	Thank you, Mr. Versnick. Mr Potč has the floor to prepare Mrs Shirca. I'll predict one after that, so it'll be more liquid. Here you go, Mr. Run.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u22	Thank you very much. Although I wished that, even during my debate, Mr President of the Government could be present, unfortunately it would not seem possible. No matter what I say, I expected today's presentation and debate to talk about the issues of the perspective of Slovenia, the economic perspective, the development perspective, to show where the agreed objectives can be achieved, where there are problems, but not that this debate will be about different political views and interests in the past and how even in the course of the budgetary debate it is necessary to show the greatest possible difference between parliamentary parties and politicians in Slovenia. In this respect, to be honest, I am also disappointed at the performance by Mr President, who, in view of the decision of the national assembly, wanted to show a formal attitude and act. He also did so, but in its content does not record any clear assessment and perspective of Slovenia's situation today and the realization of the fundamental objectives in 2005, nor does he want to convince the National Assembly, whether it is superstitious or possibly malicious, that the Government's policy is clear and that it is aimed undisputedly at the development of Slovenia and also at the achievement of our fundamental objectives, including the Lisbon Strategy. For this reason, I would also particularly expect assessments as to whether, in the last week, the changed circumstances regarding the debate and agreement on the financial perspective mean for the adoption of our budget rebalancing of any change or whether the situation of Slovenia should be re-evaluated or not. In order to assess, finally, or recently, the changed economic situation, the lower level of GDP, the decrease in the volume of investments and the similar mean anything that should be re-evaluated from the perspective of the 2005 development objectives. Instead of talking about this and assessing where and at which points we are going to place a fundamental emphasis on the budget balance, the debate by the Prime Minister of the Government is relatively very formal, he does not really say much more than what has been said in the discussions so far. The debate of members of the coalition is incriminating, but not from the point of view of the bad objectives for 2005, but what should have been or should have been in the past, without gradually finding that more than half a year's reign is slowly coming, and that after more than half a year's rule, there is also a time to define concepts and policies, not only to discuss what has been wrong in the past, according to the ruling coalition. Once again, I would like to point out that our assessments in the Social Democrats' Group in order to intervene at this time in order to address Europe's difficulties, in Slovenia, we must withdraw our strengths and forces, clearly show our goals and priorities, clearly agree on how we will implement them and stop the accusations against each other, which are present at this moment by the ruling coalition in this national assembly, in order to justify our passiveness in the discussions on the budget's rebalancing and to accuse the opposition of having dared to discuss the balance at all and to express its concerns. This is an unproductive debate for this National Assembly. I therefore expect that the continuation will have a substantive debate on individual proposals that we have also tabled in the opposition to have an argument on why some of these objectives cannot be achieved. However, we are still globally assessing that the budget through the proposed rebalancing is less development-oriented than it was at the outset, that it follows less fundamental economic and social objectives than we have set ourselves at the time of the adoption of the budget, and in this direction our amendments have gone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u23	Thank you, Mr. Run. Mrs. Shirca has the floor to prepare for Mr. Ficko.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u24	Thank you very much. Allow me to act as if Mr President has been here, because I have given him some questions and his meeting today is. The budget, more than 1,700 billion, was carried out by the Prime Minister in a fragile 10 minute period. I'm sorry about that, I'm sure, even in too pragmatic, but he did mention two important items for me. To the Prime Minister, if possible, if this is being followed, I will still ask a question because I did not receive satisfactory answers on the parental committee. And also on the other committees, which we unfortunately had to force, because for the first time in the history of the Slovenian Parliament, the rebalancing should be dealt with only on the parental committee, but not on the other committees. After all, it is the application of politics, not just numbers. Mr President, you said that on the Committee on Finance, we were completely unnecessary in delaying work. Perhaps the progress of work on the parental committee itself would have been shorter if we had more satisfying and reasonable answers or arguments, but that was very little. Therefore, I am sorry that the legitimacy of the debates and also the debates has been challenged, that it has been said that the committees have been stalled needlessly, because the discussions are ours and your basic tools and we must use them, that is: the National Assembly is a place of confrontation, not of stagnation, and a place of thought, not of silence. Mr President said that there are also some items - if I quote him correctly, "most of the money has already been spent." The balance of the budget means policy materialisation, meaning the use of words. One is the promise, and the other is the financial item that applies these words. And through this rebalancing, in fact, we can only understand what priorities the government has, which programmes seem to it to be more important or which are not primary under the given circumstances or are due to a shift in time since it was adopted two years ago. I ask the Prime Minister or the Government: What circumstances have changed at the time that, in the case of a programme of veteran organisations, the government has completely reduced funds for veteran organisations, namely, the Association of Disabled Persons of the Wars of Slovenia, the Society of Tigers, the Association of National Liberation Fighters, the Association of the North, the Association of War Disabled Slovenians, the Association of Victims of the occupying Kranj, the Association of War Disabled Peoples of the National Liberation War in Trieste and the Association for the Order of Silent Tombs. It is not a large number, but small numbers are also indicative, and because I understand that veteran organisations are not the priorities of this government. And if we put in the context of the discussions so far, we also understand why not. I would like this context not to be kept here or to receive an answer that these programmes have become less important to the new government. Although we have received a partial response that I will not do anything wrong, that the veteran organisations and associations of fighters have not provided sufficiently clear programs and plans. In accurate information whether this is true or not, the answers were diametrically opposite. The data, however never requested in writing, were transmitted in parallel from February to today, or until the last days, when they had to issue social programmes, registers of their members' lists, work plans, etc. But now that the Prime Minister has said that most of the money has already been spent, I wonder, of course, whether these funds have been spent, and if they have been, how these reductions will be reflected in the contracts. I suppose these contracts should be, too. Otherwise, allow just one more observation to the representatives of the position. I think or all of us think, in all likelihood, that references to the past and to the supposed mistakes of others will no longer go into oblivion, either to conceal their own or to direct their views elsewhere. It is time to abandon these alibis and to stand on your own feet, even here, not only where you have already done so and thus implement a very aggressive and humane policy. The balance sheet is this opportunity and you can tell us, at the time of the rebalancing, which policies are priority, but not to deal with, please, with a minister spending over eight months on business travel, which was more than 30.9 million, while your minister spends 3 million in a couple of days. I forgive myself if I slip into a place where I don't have to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u25	Thank you, Mrs. Shirci. Representatives of the government, I would like to remind ministers that the government has another hour in the programme, which is not necessary to spend only in the end, you can call whenever you want, including ministers, and answer questions raised by the government or the prime minister or the individual minister, because you are all representatives of the government in this regard. He has a word in his schedule, Mr. Ficko. Get ready, Mr. Starman. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Respectable government, colleagues and colleagues! I, too, would like to be representatives of the opposition in the Chamber, which is that I would like to face their views and then make any decision. However, we cannot go past the past, as we are finally discussing the budget balance drawn up by the previous government and we cannot really avoid it. Rebalancing is not a necessity. He shows up when there's a need for that. At this point in time, needs have arisen and the government has drawn up a proposal for a rebalancing. Where are the needs? They may be that the budget has not been well prepared, but the facts that have proved to be in the process of implementing this budget dictate the need for change. And if we see on the revenue side that the revenue is actually higher than the budget predicted, if we cannot make another statement on this, we can at least give a neo-optimist view at that time in the preparation of this budget to which we are now earmarking the rebalancing. On the expenditure side, we do have a lot of things that suggest the need for change. When the 70 billion unplanned revenue or expenditure appeared in the budget, the opposition's representatives were literally "jumping into the luft" if now the government has found something that it will not be able to solve, which it will not be able to understand. These are also the facts that now suggest that there is a need to change the budget at the time, and this is the balance that we have on the table. Of course, I cannot go beyond the procedures for accepting this balance on the parent's working body, where everything revolved around one person. I believe and I know that the Slovenians have sustainable people, two of them are back on the world test, the Arrow swims somewhere in Slovakia, Robič drives across America, I would be happy if Mr. Swickl said that he is also competing to achieve some record in the Guinness book and then the members of the committee would probably take it differently and maybe even support it in some matter, or at four or five in the morning, when you're listening all night to one and the same person, you're having a hard time literally thinking, and I'm sorry a little to the colleagues who participated in these discussions. You said this budget rebalancing was a missed opportunity. I assume you were thinking yourself, you really missed the opportunity to make a majority decision on this rebalancing yourself. Unfortunately for us this is not an opportunity, this opportunity that you missed last fall, but we will, at least I suppose, implement in the preparation of the next budget, where we can more fully implement our programmes in the coalition treaty. This will only be in the budget, with this balance we are essentially correcting things that are necessary to correct. The evidence of the underdevelopment of the budget's balance sheet, in which 23% of the funds are invested, is short-lived if they endure. There was a lot of talk about the specific issue of investing in the pediatric clinic. The pediatric clinic will be built in the projected dynamics that are now in force, at least so provided by the Secretariat Minister. Why was it not already built, the representative of Liberal Democracy asked for the last time here in Parliament. This question is not addressed to the right address, the most competent to answer, respected colleagues and colleagues, are those whom you see in the bathroom in the morning, when you handle yourself, to address this question to those who can receive answers to this question every day. I have no idea what kind of answers they're going to give you. The fact that investment in a paediatric clinic will increase economic growth in Slovenia, as Mr Squeakl in Echoes spoke to Slovenians, I cannot believe that, indeed. Mr Lahovnik's question, when comparing the increase in budget expenditure with the number, how many inhabitants of Slovenia will this burden, mentioned newborns and pensioners, of course all in between, I would remind him to count once, how many residents, including newborns and pensioners, burden his wages. For he is part of this system, which is also financed so that it does not look so emotional. It always occurs to me first in memory of the event when the President of Liberal Democracy in the previous government until then experts, it seems to me that somewhere in Brdo pri Kranj, he has devoted himself to members of the party, as we say, politically "deprecated" or "contaminated" - what kind of expression is more appropriate to you after a year. I regret that he has not added a substance to them there yet a little political experience, especially now in the work of the opposition, when they are in a new role, this would come in handy. There are many comments in this balance that there are not enough resources for development directly for development. In doing so, I point out that only the resources for development are not enough, and I will try to illustrate this in just one segment. The financing of regional development agencies, if we look at how much money they spend on their own functioning, says that this money, at least in my opinion, is not used effectively. When a journalist or a journalist asked one of the directors of such a development agency why she received such a large salary, she replied herself that it was not all pay, but it was one part, a large part, for success, for performance, for work in the previous year and when the journalist asked her what she had gotten the job performance, she did not know the answer at first, but she said that she was likely because she had implemented the plan last year, which she had to implement. So, this money, when you realize something you're being charged by the program, then probably shouldn't be the reason for your performance. The development potential of Slovenia is not small. I expect that, in the coming period, when we prepare the budget for the coming years, by putting into effect those starting points that we now have in our programmes and bringing together in a coalition contract, we will put in place in a way that will be better for the state of Slovenia. Until then, I would also like the biggest opposition party to consolidate slightly so that we can constructively discuss and participate in the adoption of that budget; not least, it will be in their best interests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u27	Thank you, Mr. Fick. Again, I would ask Members to try to stick to the content of the debate, namely the general part of the 2005 budget rebalancing proposal. Mr. Squeakle has reached out to the replica. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u28	It's a very short replica. I would like to suggest to the Member of Parliament that he take a look at the numbers. The former government has proposed investment of 181 billion in the budget [[...]] [[Back-up advertising.]] She proposed 181 billion, you propose - Minister, Prime Minister - 170 billion or 11 billion less. As far as you can realize, I will tell you now: out of 170 billion you will realize about 120 billion because 50 billion European funds will not be realized this year. And secondly, you're proposing a 38 billion salary increase - and you're going to realize that. And the problem will be that you will increase current consumption, which will have a negative impact on inflation at the time of taking over the euro, and that you will not be able to initiate procedures for public procurement of works, which would have a positive impact on economic growth. And that's our only thought. In this respect, the budget is underdeveloped because there will be less money for investments and will be slightly more procedural in 2006 and 2007. That's the whole problem. And one last thought on the so-called, I don't know, 20 hours and so many hours. See, when the state budget is adopted, all the working bodies and the home labour body meet for this. This usually lasts in Sweden from one to three weeks, in the United States from about July to about the end of October. That's 30 hours short. You will see how much time we will be working on the budget, because if we want to think about the content of 2,000 pages, it takes more than five hours. And it's not our fault if you've estimated that it's enough to discuss five hours after you've received instructions at the coalition meeting that you shouldn't table amendments. And this is the first time that the ruling coalition does not have any amendments, at least not to what is usually Members and Members of Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u29	Thank you, Mr. Squeakle. Mr Starman is on the list of panellists to prepare Mr Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor! I'll be very brief. I think that regardless of who has drawn up the budget, who would do what is right and want to be transparent, he could only draw up a very similar budget. Here it was simply written and in the rebalance it confirmed what was found, calculated, and I do not think that there is much room for manoeuvre. I think it's a fair recognition of revenue, but I'd rather see that they'd be slightly less planned, because there would be so little less spending, but I think it's been fairly done by the proposer, that he's cheap and I hope he's properly assessed the revenue side of the budget. I also think that it is right that everything is written on the expenditure side and not that the practice as it has been has continued, that one part of the funds is not planned in the budget, and that part of the items that need to be implemented. I don't think such a practice is good, it's not good for all of us, and it's better that we actually plan things, because it's the only way we actually know what we can do this year. Otherwise, it is, I think, just last year, the same practice every year, that for the purpose of providing funds on the budget lines of wages and various other liabilities, the funds simply begin to decrease in the field of investment and that is why there is always this huge gap from the planned and realised investments. This developmental orientation, I must touch on it, as Mr Squeakl said last. Last year, investment transfers and investment expenditure were planned at 180 billion, as was said and realised twice at 68 billion, approx. 136 billion tolars. That was the case. We cannot go through this, precisely because of this philosophy and this way, I would say, some kind of misappropriation in the implementation of the budget is important in order to determine. It is likely that the possibilities for certain changes, which will actually be of a substantive nature, can be realized quite quickly when we begin the preparation of the 2006 budget. Personally, I do not think that it is possible to make a substantially different proposal like this, so I think that these discussions were actually unnecessary because there is no real possibility that things will change substantially. On the other hand, the number is the same as in the budget - we are practically increasing the expenditure in this budget by 42 billion tolars in relation to the budget initially adopted. If I add the figure in 2004, where the realisation was 1.595 billion, that's an increase of 176 billion tolars, and that's 11.2%. This number concerns me, but I doubt that it can be brought in differently, and this is not a solution within this budget, but within the framework of the next budgets. If we are honest with each other, we should also define common things. The budget is a matter where we do not need to lose energy by accusing each other. I think that the budget is a thing where we could say that we are united, that we are united, that it is our common agenda and that it is very important that we do the things that are the priorities that are here. For the time being, we are only realizing, fully implementing the budget lines, which were already adopted in 2003. I'm afraid if we don't add these things, add wages and all that, it's just a real state. I don't know, I'm afraid that's where we gave Revoz the funds that were signed with the contract. We cannot pretend that we would not realize these things, and I think it is right for us to be united here, and we are all aware that options and opportunities for any change or increase here are possible. The whole structure, the whole package of amendments to the budget itself, has not shown any weight to make any significant changes, nor has anyone proposed a reduction in revenue on some grounds. That is why I think it is right to unify and adopt this budget so that we can implement the programme by the end of the year, as it is set, and set our goals as quickly as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u31	Thank you, Mr. Starman. Mr. Gantar has the floor. The next one should be prepared by Mr Petan, who I apologize to for skipping by mistake. Here you go, Mr. Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues! Unfortunately, the Prime Minister is no longer here. I myself have closely monitored the preparation of the budget rebalancing so far, even when it was still in government, and also in the National Assembly, even though I did not participate in the Committee on Finance, and so I can afford a few observations with a slight distance. As far as I am concerned, the budgetary debate is the debate of all the debates in Parliament. This is a debate in which priorities, government guidance, which has concretely tangible support in sources, financial, material and others, appear and show for their implementation. Therefore, there will always be differences here. I'd be glad if, like my colleague Starman, he says, if we can figure out that there's a lot in common. But there will always be differences, and this is where they will be the most visible. That's the first thing. Second thing. I have to say that I have been paying attention to several statements made by the Finance Minister - which I thank him for just joining us - that the budget does not really reflect the priority of this government or that the budget rebalance does not represent the priority of this government. The balance of the budget, I can say, does not reflect the priorities of the previous government either. What are the priorities, then? Is there another, third, invisible, unknown to you, an unknown government that has made its budget and its priorities a secret? Does anyone else rule over you and us as opposition? I think we must finally say that this budget balance, once adopted, will be your budget and will put you on your feet, as you have prepared and put you through this Parliament. Otherwise, this is, clearly, more or less a reference to courtesy, to say that the budget is good when it suits you, and that it is a robbery or a previous government when it does not suit you. This way of thinking, I must well warn you, after this meeting, after the conclusion of this point, this extraordinary session will not actually be possible anymore. Following the adoption of the government's budget rebalancing, I watched for about a week the ministers and the minister, who were all pleased with the television or the press conferences and told them that everyone was profiting. I must say, my experience is very different. Let me divulge the secret of the former governments, not just the Robbery: sometimes we have been banned from talking about the budget so as not to express any dissatisfaction. My personal experience, I can say this, regarding the adoption of budgets, was that I was always dissatisfied, that I was never satisfied, and that I had never met a colleague who did not openly show dissatisfaction, although he might have been a little more pleased with himself than ever. [[I'm watching the Nightingale Gabra.]] . The ministers were all dissatisfied in turn, and so was the case. The budget is good when everyone is dissatisfied, but no one is so desperate to give up this dissatisfaction. And then the budget of some kind is balanced, which allows this budget to not be consumer-oriented, is not wasted, but at the same time realizes the basic intentions of ministers, governments, etc. In short, colleagues from the post, representatives of the government, ministers, Prime Minister, I think you can, in fact, do more. Firstly, the budget, the budget rebalancing, should be brought to the National Assembly at least three months earlier and thus provide a greater margin of manoeuvre for its restructuring. At least three months earlier, but I'd rather say four or five. So this would be possible if we started with this work of government, but not just with human resources changes. I should have expressed your priorities more, so we should have restructured it more. This would not satisfy the opposition, it is certain that no, but they would satisfy their electoral base, their supporters, their intentions, your intentions and your program. One year, a quarter of this term will be spent on a foreign budget that, as you say, you couldn't or you wanted to have a significant impact. 25% of this period. And of course, that's not good for any government. I must say that I am grateful to Mr Tank for the concern expressed with regard to the LDS party. Indeed, much of the debate is held in this party, as in any party that loses an election, which is perfectly normal, but at the same time I can say and attach it, it is true that the debate in the party has somehow affected our behaviour towards the budget. What would happen if we didn't also deal with the customer and devote all our creative powers and energy to the budget. We could expect even more and more in-depth and even more people participating in the debates. So be grateful that we are also dealing with our client and that we are renovating and upgrading it, but at the same time I remind you that this is not the reason that we would take you away from this budget and also us, so that we do not have to deal with this budget a little bit, which we have also. At the same time, I would like to warn you that rhetoric can't do anything to you, because the previous government, if I say so at home, screws up or screws up, can't take it any more: neither your journalists nor your media. Finally, people will tell them what suits them better, whether things are better now or worse. In time, the differences between the two governments, etc., as in many other areas, will be revealed, too. And that's the way it is. At the same time, I must say, if you will allow me, Mr President, that I would also suggest to my LDS colleagues that they should not protest too much when our colleagues tell us how bad we were, what we did wrong, what was wrong, etc., because such proof is that it is not true, in some way irrelevant. In particular, I want you to be careful not to make any more serious or even more serious mistakes when you correct our supposed or real weaknesses or mistakes. And this is actually the message that we should already have in this budget. [[...]] [[The answer from the bench.]] Comrade Jerovšek, will you give me something right away? Yeah. That's no excuse if we're talking about excuses in the last few months or weeks. In short, I wish you that when you remove our imaginary or real weaknesses to do as little weakness as possible, but I tell you, everyone you do will stand, I would say, will not remain unpunished. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u33	Thank you, Mr. Gantar. Mr. Petan has the floor. Mr. Starman, you weren't quoted, you weren't appointed. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Were you? [[..]] Well, here's a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor! I would like to say a very short replica, which I think answers a lot of questions. The budget or the budget balance is always due to previous decisions in the National Assembly, which is the result, not the cause. That is why I would like to say that substantial changes in the budget will be made, done and done in terms of what we will decide on individual laws in specific areas. That is why I say that there will be a lot of change and changes to reduce public spending at all. In fact, what we are talking about today is not the result of not knowing what kind of income to be adopted, but I think that should be taken into account. This is the result of the budget and the exclusive result of the work of the National Assembly and if the public administration has increased too much if we have given too much [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] . for various things, this has been decided here before and will continue to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u35	Thank you. Mr. Petan has the floor. Get Mr. Kovacic ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u36	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Your Honor! Well, there's been a lot of talk about this rebalancing, and there's probably going to be more, of course, there's been a lot of swindling and deception. The fact is, I'd like to say the following. By the way, the balance. Why the balance? This means that it is necessary to re-balance, it is said, because the balance was poor, that because the financial balance of the State’s public finances was poor, it is necessary to re-coordinate the financial balance or the financial situation of the State. Or if you want to do otherwise, a list of the actual existing situation or we can call the rehabilitation of what happened. The base, this is a balance or budget, was prepared two years ago and I'm not going to say that it was prepared badly, let's leave it at the side, but in the meantime a lot has happened. And now it is necessary to draw up such a budget, such a rebalance that will take into account the existing situation, so that something real can be built on which we can build at all, otherwise it is not possible to build in some fog clouds, in some misty heights. We can hear a lot of things, so it was said, about a cheaper country, that this balance doesn't take that into account. Ladies and gentlemen, here we should ask ourselves, who planned this country, who planned this public administration, who did it, who formed it, and who didn't take into account the salaries for part of the public administration. This isn't real, and this balance sheet takes that into account. It also takes these facts into account that public administration should also be paid. It's a lot of conceivable stuff. In fact, it is a certain heritage that needs to be evaluated and written, presented as it is. There is a lot of talk about cutting down development work, that there is not enough on this segment, but the respected gentlemen who have prepared this budget should ask themselves why you have put some things under investments that you have never made - because you also had to give for the public sector's salaries, which you have also planned and implemented. Otherwise, unfortunately, it doesn't work. You also talk and criticize and ask a lot of questions. It was a question of how the standard of living would be achieved to be higher. That was a concrete question. Here too, we could say that so far the country has not been a good economy in the economic sector. Even more so, if uncontrolled bankruptcy has already occurred, even bankruptcy managers have borrowed money and have not received it. Yeah, then how can you ask about a higher standard? In fact, these workers are also our citizens, and they also have the right to their standard, but it was someone who held the "stango" as it is called. There is a lot of questions, of course, about when certain investments will be made, and I will mention only a few of those: the University Library - very much needed. But as I recall, four or five years ago, there was a foundation stone, and today there's nothing but weed. And maybe I could ask me whether on this side or even more, we could ask where those funds were used. I don't suppose anyone will say that you've built a foundation stone to cloud the situation and that you have Slovenians and Slovenians as fools, that you've only built a foundation stone. Where's that money? You could ask me that and get an answer. It is likely that this government will have to answer this question, and then the financial statement will be realistic. It's the same for a pediatric clinic. I think the government has already made it clear. Now I'd stop by the highways. The north-eastern part of Slovenia, the more eastern part was planned to get its road connection only after 2010. Indeed, the last year has changed slightly to the pressure of the countrymen. And this government has made it clear that it will be as soon as possible and also the date is day - but, look at the fraction. This system must function fully and then how possible under such legislation, which has been adopted in previous mandates, so that someone can complain and do so until disability. And sections that should be built are falling down, so that the hands can go through, which are very tense, but someone can complain and the matter falls. This can be repeated until disability. I'm not going to repeat or give you suggestions and prove to you how it was in some other segments, when things are seven, eight years running, and someone's still complaining. It is similar in some other segments, but it might be more appropriate for you to ask me why you have not already set up shovels and started working, and today this government should bring the matter to an end, but you are still asking when these objects will be. That's unrealistic and that's cheating. That's why it takes this rebalancing to go down to the real ground, or we could call it a fall from the clouds. A lot of investment was promised, it was very nice to hear, but what if we had to come to a realization, but we found that it was up there in a cloud somewhere, but unfortunately we can't pull that cloud down because there's no money for it. This balance balances income and expenditure, not desire and expenditure, as has been foreseen in many cases. On the other hand, I have not heard any questions about railways. There are so many shortages on the railway and the railways have to work, the railways will work, but for this it is necessary to get the money and this needs to be balanced now. The main purpose of this rebalancing is to balance revenue and revenue, gentlemen. There is no need to be informed about these and other objects, but it is necessary to have a clear picture of how this will work. It is true that in the past it has been planned, as you say, a developmental, huge investment, but it was not possible to make it happen, because we had to give it to other needs which were not planned, but which do not belong, as it is called, to that developmental part and we basically lied to ourselves. Of course, we also used various arts, as mentioned earlier today, that the financial years were different on the revenue side for 13 months, and of course we are on the expenditure side for 12 months, and then this is one year, it is the end of January, the second year is the end of February, and then it was already the income part for the next year until the end of March, and then it has to stop once, because then it runs out for the whole year of the budget or runs out for a whole year of wages or something like that. And that's what's been going on a lot. The purpose of this rebalancing is also, as it is called, to pour ourselves a clean wine and such a balanced budget, in which case a rebalancing can still be a suitable basis for planning ahead. But you've been acting like this government has been in power for 12 years, and of course it's been planning since the first year. Unfortunately, it has not been possible to plan for this year because most of the funds have already been used in any way, because unfortunately, in addition to these 13 months of the financial year, we are still in a pre-election year and now we are in such a situation when it is necessary to make a balance sheet. I would also like to say that this rebalancing is just a balance of reality without some promised castles, sometimes it's very nice to hear it because a lot of promises are made to a lot of people, but it's a little bit later than that, but now it's time to step off the clouds and figure out how long our blanket is. If we admit it, of course, it will be much easier for us to work ahead. I'd say something more with so much criticism of this rebalance that I wouldn't blame the mirror if it showed an unkind or distorted image. It is not the mirror that is responsible for this, but the image that has prepared or prepared for us to have such a condition today, when it is necessary to leave the mirror alone, but the image that is in front of the mirror, to make it a little better or to make it real. Really, maybe that's the right term. I will, of course, support this rebalancing, as it is presented, but I am also concerned that internal party developments would in any way like to be transferred to the state level, that the national assembly should deal with internal developments in a party and that the country would suffer as a result. In terms of finance, rebalancing or budget, it is a real matter of the state, not of the individual party, who may think that he has more rights over the country than anyone else. And I think it is necessary to commend this government, which has prepared some real state, some real representation, even if we are not all satisfied with it, but it will be easier for us to work ahead and we will plan even further, and the government will also be easier to move forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u37	Thank you, Mr. Petan. Mr Kovacic has the next word. Let Mr Sok be prepared and then Mr Kokalj. Here you go, Mr. Kovacich.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u38	Thank you very much. President, colleagues and colleagues, ministers! I would like to say to all the criticisms of the proposed 2005 rebalancing that you are wrong, because there has already been some talk about this, but even if I can agree with some of you who are identifying the shortcomings of this year's budget, I also agree with a lot of this and I find shortcomings, but we must be aware that this budget has not been prepared by the current government and confirmed by the current coalition in the National Assembly, but this year's budget is the product of the previous government and the previous coalition. We know that the National Assembly adopts two-year budgets and this year's budget, adopted at the end of 2003, covers the period 2004-2005. And this budget, as it is said, was adopted by the previous ruling coalition. At the same time, the current government, which took over its mission in December last year, had to take all the heritage, the decisions made by the previous government and the previous coalition. And there is also a budget for this year among this legacy. It is clear that the government was not able to adopt this year's budget on its own, since it did not have a legal basis, that is, neither legal options nor time, since it was appointed only last month, as I have already mentioned, but was obliged to implement this inherited budget in accordance with the applicable legislation. However, since it has found that the budget is objectively not feasible in some segments, it has to be prepared and proposed to the National Assembly a rebalancing of this year's budget, on the basis of which all public financial obligations can be properly and legally fulfilled. It is therefore absolutely necessary to make changes which, on the one hand, are the result of the wrong planning of the previous government and, on the other hand, a hand on the heart, including objective circumstances which were difficult to predict in advance or even impossible to predict, and there is no fault in this part of the former government. Thirdly, it is also about corrections resulting from the implementation of the new government programme, which is different from that of the previous government. And today we only deal with and accept amendments to the already adopted budget, which are necessary and possible, without prejudice to the commitments already adopted by the country that have already been adopted on the basis of the 2005 inherited budget. Therefore, we can only assess this year's budget and the proposed changes within this context. Unfortunately, given the fact that we already have a budget for this year, the government has had a very limited margin of manoeuvre in drawing up the balance, for the reasons I have mentioned, otherwise there should be even more changes and corrections. However, this cannot be done in the light of the legal provisions, as it is said. However, it is likely that everyone can see that the government, within its legal capacity, will do its utmost to implement the programme and policy of the ruling coalition, which has also received people's confidence in the elections. Therefore, it would be difficult to expect that now we should include and support all those projects that you have tried to include in the opposition in the course of the treatment of your mother's working body with great zeal. This would mean that the current government coalition, on the one hand, would support a direction that is not its own and would, on the other hand, solve certain problems of the former government which it could not resolve and implement because of misbudgeting and poor governance. At the end of the year, when we consider and adopt the budget for the next two years, the government will have a significantly larger margin of manoeuvre and will be able to draw up a two-year budget in which its programming orientations will be taken into account to a much greater extent. From the budgetary data, we can identify a significant imbalance between the planned revenue and expenditure for 2004 on the one hand and between the realised revenue and expenditure for 2004 on the other. The government has used actual consumption in 2004 as an important criterion for planning by the end of this year and as an important indicator for rebalancing. And certainly the actual consumption indicator in 2004 is a more important criterion for designing planned consumption for this year than the planned consumption for 2004. Realisation has just shown that planning has not been accurate, and it would therefore be unwise for us to base our planning for this year only on the plan for the previous year, which turned out to be wrong. It is also true that the previous government has made very poor use of the inflows of potential revenue from the European so-called Structural and Cohesion Funds, because it has not initiated projects for the implementation of such funding in a timely manner. This backlog will have to be mitigated by the current government as soon as possible and then the revenue from these addresses will be more attainable in the future than it has been before. When the critics of the rebalancing talk about the undeveloped budget, they forget that the truth is the other way around. If we come from the implementation of the 2004 budget, then we can find that the rebalancing significantly increases investment expenditure in relation to last year's realisation by up to 32 billion tolars. This means an increase of 23%. Thus, we can truly conclude that the work of the former government has been undeveloped and that the present government has only been correcting this inherited indevelopment situation. Finally, let me say a few more words about the treatment of the balance on my parent's working body, where I have also worked together and I am very disappointed at the level of this debate, which was on the Committee on Finance. Let me tell you, to those who do not yet know that the meeting lasted more than 30 hours, of which more than 90% of the time spoke only one Member. When it became clear that each other's debate caused new and new long speakers of this hyper-productive Member who never made the effort not to have the last word, we simply gave up. Just as it is in life that the wiser give up. However, this has led to the fact that the debate could not take place in accordance with democratic principles. On democratic principles, at least that's how I understand it, there's a dialogue going on, and once all interested people have made their views known, there will be a decision where the majority decide. However, if we are dealing only with a monologue which, in spite of the abuse of business regulations, discourages others from dialogue, then there is no democratic exchange of views, which is certainly not right. I have to say, it really bothers me. It bothers me because democratic dialogue is not ensured in a democratic institution such as Parliament because of such a way of representing an individual Member. Everyone has the right to express his or her opinion and it is right to express his or her opinion. It is wrong, however, if this right of use and abuse of business regulations is to speak across all reasonable time limits, but it always responds to any different position with new and new speakers, where it repeatedly repeats one and the same. The result of all of this is, as I have already said, that others simply shut up and thus achieve that, at least once, this treatment will end, otherwise the end would not be seen and probably not have this meeting today, this session. Despite the silence that most of us have been forced to serve on our mother’s working body to bring the matter to a close at all, we have been sitting, as it were, for more than 30 hours, and we have thus stayed one night. Therefore, I expect that in the future we will no longer go to such games, that every Member understands and respects a different opinion, just as others respect and understand his opinion. Only then will Parliament, as an institution, fulfil its democratic mission and ensure its integrity. Although I think that such conduct is the most damaging to the party from which the Member comes, it does not, after all, displease me, although I might be pleased, but, of course, it is the integrity of the institution, as I have said, and I think that in such an institution we must respect the diversity and respect the dialogue and, on the basis of this, let the majority simply decide. I certainly support today's proposed rebalancing because it is prepared in line with the coalition's programming guidelines because it corrects some mistakes in the planning of the previous government and also because there have been some objective changes that were not foreseen at the time of the adoption of the 2004/05 budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u39	Thank you, Mr. Kovacich. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] You weren't named Mr. Squeakle. Mr Sok has the floor to prepare Mr Kokalj and then Mr Petek Milan. But Mr. Squeakle, you can sign up for the debate. Are you applying for a debate? Later, yeah. Here you go, Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u40	Thank you for your word. Dear President, distinguished ministers, fellow Members and Members of Parliament! Even though I am not a member of this committee, I have listened to this long debate through the technique that allows this in the National Assembly. And I can say that this debate on the Committee on Finance really didn't make us rich, but it did make us more tired. It may come to the analies of this Parliament's work because of its length, but not because of its quality, which should be the purpose of such an in-depth debate on the Committee. In opening, let me say that the most frequently spoken word by opposition colleagues, which is of course perfectly legitimate and legal and also in the public media, is written that this budget is against development, that it is not development-oriented. And if this is said by fellow Members who were ministers a few months ago, then of course Mr Squeakle, if you can please calm down nicely, then you will get the word. [[...]] There's your seat, not there. If the former ministers, the current Members, say so, then the matter becomes ridiculous in public. And that's what the press found out after all. It is said that you will be able to assess developmental orientation, and at least for a while it will be necessary to wait. It's actually unproductive or, as I said before, ridiculous to talk about this rebalancing. I'm not gonna talk for long, but let me draw your attention to one fact. It seems to me that the most important proposal for this budget rebalancing is, in fact, that the state or budget deficit of 112 billion is falling to 91 billion, says about 20 billion Slovenian tolls with this balance, despite the difficulty the government was facing. I've been looking at the final account data for 2004. And despite the fact that former Minister Maramor frozen all further commitments to the 2004 budget on 8 October 2004, it is clear from the data that the previous government spent 36 billion more at the end of 2004 than was planned in the 2004 budget, despite this freezing. A forward account must be paid once. In view of the fact that certain commitments amounting to 70 billion were made by the 2005 budget, which were also not planned anywhere in the revenue part of the budget and had to be provided by the government. However, it is also necessary to say what the Finance Minister has repeatedly stressed that revenue is also higher than planned. This is actually a happy circumstance. If that were not the case, it would be difficult to draw up a comprehensive balance sheet and, this year, in some way, when the majority of the funds have actually been spent, to complete the budget. It seems to me that this is what needs to be done and what is commendable that the government has acted in this way. If the budget deficit is to be reduced in the coming years, then there is no reason and there is no fear that Slovenia will not be ready to take over the euro's common currency as of 1.1.2007, and that is, I understand that this commitment is both a position and an opposition. And I'd like to make another point. With this rebalancing and with these laws that we will adopt today, the government and the ruling coalition are also making another announcement, which is that the state will take over the debts of the pension and health bills, at this time they amount to 45 billion Slovenian tolars, which is not a small one, and that it will also be possible to refinance debts through the Ministry of Finance to municipalities in debt. In addition, this budget increases the principal to the municipalities by 10%. In the past, there has been a lot of criticism in this account, and this is at the expense of, gentlemen, the governments that you have led for 12 years to dictate to the municipalities new and new obligations, Parliament has imposed on them by law what they must do and you have never, at the same time, made sure that you pay for it. I will not repeat the other matters, there will be other Members. However, I would like to conclude with this and, of course, if we repeat this several times, the Slovenian public will also understand. This budget increases the realisation of investment funds by 32 billion towards 2004, which is 23%. Not to acknowledge this and to continue to speak about the fact that this budget is not developmental and actually to repeat that this is a lie, is unproductive and thus, respectable colleagues from the opposition, you will not be able to build, I would say, an image. Some other arguments will have to be supported, and those who hold, the current government will admit and congratulate it, and as the opposition will look after another mistake, not to look for it where it is not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u41	Thank you, Mr. Sok. Mr. Kokalj has the floor. Mr Friday Milan, and then Mr Moge. Here you go, Mr. Bones.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u42	Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government! The 2005 budget rebalancing is becoming a first-class media sensation in the country. I do not recall such media attention in the adoption of budgets in the past. That is why I think it is right for the public, not us sitting here, to explain in as simple a way as possible what we are actually accepting. It is essentially a new balanced budget, which was adopted two years ago. Mr Petan used to explain the word "rebalance". So if the truck was loaded already in 2003 and started driving in 2005 and unloads the cargo, we cannot stop it in the middle of the road, reload it with another content. It may be possible only to postpone something at the intermediate station, to distribute it more evenly and more appropriately, so that it will make its way safely and optimally by the end of this year. It's a balance. Rebalanced and functional balance of the total burden we have imposed. For much is said in public as if a new budget is being adopted, which is not true. So the story of the rebalancing is just repairing the already drawn path, already initiated activities, in the vast majority of the forward-delivered shipments. This is how we hope for a reasonable increase on the revenue side, including on European projects. On the expenditure side, however, this is essentially what I mentioned earlier, to redistribute the load in order to ensure that the objectives set are actually achieved. The additional resources required for public administration employees are the result of a long-planned and unrealised reduction of one per cent of public administration employees. Funding for salaries in public institutions, in the field of education, for almost 24 billion, was very poorly planned. This is a budget error. If any is foreseeable, there are foreseeable costs in the field of education, as all standards are adopted by the Ministry directly or indirectly. As it is known, in the past, there were usually too few funds planned at the school, which at the end of the year were glued or grossly redeployed from other items. Significant resources are additionally needed to settle the envisaged guarantees, which means again poor planning in the current budget. In view of the situation, it is necessary to provide additional funding in the field of railway infrastructure and a large amount, 4.2 billion, for the payment of liabilities to craftsmen and entrepreneurs' funds. This obligation is due to non-compliance with the legal obligations of the past. With the rebalancing, as we have heard many times today, the costs of municipalities that have increased significantly in recent years through new legislation and by-laws are finally balanced without these resources being sufficiently increased. So in total, 70 billion additional obligations are necessary. The 2005 rebalancing must be the first step towards a more transparent and better planning of public finances. The correct and only logical, including those who are mayors, you know this to be true, is the approach to correcting the budget in relation to last year's implementation, according to last year. If I touch on the financial picture in terms of drawing on European funds, we can see that the government here has shown a clear purpose in the rebalancing to increase efficiency. In addition to the projected increase in income by 12.7 billion, a reduction of 2.2 billion in the European budget is also envisaged. This means about 15 billion better than in the current budget. The adoption of the 2005 budget rebalancing is essential if we want to be in line with one another's budgetary hygiene reverse process in these months. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u43	Thank you, Mr. Kokal. Mr. Milan Petek has the floor. Let Mr Moge be prepared and Mr Jerovšek will be next. Here you go, Mr. Friday.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u44	Thank you, President, for your word. I must say that I did not intend to discuss this point of general work when I arrived at this meeting first. Encouraged by the intervention of the Prime Minister and some Members, I have decided to change my own decision, as I think it would be better to devote more time to the amendments, but that is why it has brought about developments. I am also disappointed, in fact, at the performance of the Prime Minister. I expected more. I expected a technical-total discussion, or a presentation of what is seen indirectly through the budget, or more what is not visible. Clearly, he is not concerned about developments in the European Union. Clearly, he is not concerned about how we will achieve the objectives of the Lisbon Strategy. Obviously, it is not a problem of unemployment either, so in his performance, which was highly formalistic, he went straight beyond these issues. It has therefore avoided the possibility that we Members should say what we think about it, which is why we are now discussing it this way. When I first listened to the president, and later specifically the leader of the SDS Group and some other Members, that you did not decide to talk about the balance, but you agreed to attack the previous government, the previous Parliament, the previous budget, so you were looking for a way to avoid this debate on the balance. Of course, that's not what you're doing the most because I think what we're trying to say in our discussions is that we're just talking about a rebalancing. Also, because I was a participant in this meeting of the Finance Committee, I was surprised to see the Prime Minister, who, in fact, was not even in Slovenia all this time - they obviously conveyed to him this thinking - that the debate was unnecessary and only a delay. Those of us who are new Members, I think that even those of you who are old, have, through the debate at the meeting of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, in my view, been very accurate and very well acquainted with the budget. Through these 77 amendments, we have broken through the content of this budget in a way that at least those who were there, we know this budget much better than we did before. I think at least that would have to be admitted if you're already sharing the obvious that there was nothing there but an empty straw. The fact is that it is obvious that you have come or that those members of the coalition are prepared for a meeting of the Finance Committee for the purpose of silence, so with the command you have received, please comply with this instruction that you are silently trying to bring the debate to a five-hour period that we have had at our disposal. I hope once again that this 30-hour debate is just a welcome basis for you to discuss more easily the budget, which some have already mentioned, for 2006 and 2007. After all, the outcome of this debate is also the adoption of six amendments, which are not just the amendments of the opposition, which, in my humble opinion, are now amendments to the coalition. I hope that you will not run away from this today and that you will also confirm these amendments of the Home Committee. In this debate, which has been heard so far, one of the colleagues praised the government's behaviour regarding principality. I do not deny that municipalities need to be provided with slightly more opportunities and resources to implement their programmes. But you made a mistake here. With this budget, you have put large congregations and small congregations, or municipalities that depend on balancing, and those who have their own resources. In this case, it is these slightly larger congregations that are affected by the fact that, despite the fact that they also need funds, they are not allowed to do so with a head of funds. In fact, they are forced to reduce to their extent the volume of investment, which means that we have different funding options in this state budget or the rebalancing of the municipality. In particular, it seems to me that one of the colleagues who said that the government had promised to build a motorway faster in the previous term than had been agreed with the somewhat earlier national highway rebalancing programme. He forgot that a member of this current coalition from the People's Party sat in this former government, and that the Transport Minister, that in this same structure of highway construction was now a minister, formerly President Darsa, who himself, namely, the Transport Ministry and Dars, should have found that traffic flows in the premurk end run differently than those on paper, and that he himself should have proposed immediate action on this route through all the studies that were available on an expert basis. This was done by the government, the government as a collective body, that is, the one who replaced the former minister in this government, so Mr Pavliha and the government has attached him. As a result, you can only focus on yourself and those in this government, now in the coalition, and earlier in the second coalition, in the coalition. In these discussions, the coalition, at least I had this feeling, sought excuses for this balance or for this balance being the same as it is. Otherwise, it was about the funds already spent, the overcrowding, the poor foundations and the foundations that this government had received. For me, these are excuses that have no real basis. It seems to me that this is more about looking for hair in an egg that will serve when it comes to it and it comes right. That is why I think it is the right debate of the Chairman of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, Mr Starman, who is objective enough to assess this balance. And when it is objective, it is also critical that one part of this budget cake is too widespread, increasing inappropriately that it should actually be reduced. For this reason, it seems to me that this would be a method and mode of work and debate in this National Assembly, which would lead to an improvement of the possible balance or a different basis for the next budget. I propose because it is pointless, as I said, to waste time on this general debate, to try to reach this conclusion as soon as possible in our deliberations and to move on to the amendments. But I would suggest to the ruling coalition or to you Members that you focus as soon as possible, not on the rebalancing, but prepare for a new budget, and do not forget, as now, that technological development is neglected in this budget, that we do not have the opportunity to pursue the objectives of the Lisbon Strategy, even less the development strategy of Slovenia. That it is unnecessary and must not be forgotten that in Slovenia an active employment policy is still needed, that these users need more resources, in this budget or in the rebalancing of this situation, that Slovenia has not taken an essential step in relation to the equivalent social situation in the Slovenian field, but that certain areas need very much social assistance, and that these resources must also have a response in the budget, that certain investment procedures in the field of health are therefore unnecessary and unnecessary this year, and that in the 2006 and 2007 budgets in this area it is necessary to restore the dynamics and the flow that it has had and that from the speaking and talking about more coherent regional development, it is necessary to make budgetary moves so that regional development funds are provided at an appropriate level to ensure that communities obtain and have the opportunity to run for calls, for funds that are being reopened. I hope they're high enough. I believe that there is something to say about the rebalancing, but that it is necessary to conclude the debate as soon as possible and focus on the amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u45	Thank you, Mr. Friday. The next is Mr Moge, to prepare Mr Jerovšek and then Mr Testen. Here you go, Mr. Mogue.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the National Assembly. Dear Mr. Prime Minister, here in spirit, Mr. Finance Minister, Dr. Bajuk, is truly here, a respected minister, because I see there is only one more here. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I am also joining the debates by the opposition. I wouldn't have answered if I hadn't been disappointed about how the National Assembly started this meeting today. I must go on to say that I am extremely disappointed at what Mr Prime Minister said at the outset. Disappointed because he didn't actually say anything like what I expected him to touch, and would give him as a mathematician himself an evaluation sufficient for his performance. But the only reason he got that grade was because he read what someone wrote to him. I think it's a disgrace to the National Assembly, if we wait for the Prime Minister for a few days, then he comes, recites his own, listens to the speech of the leader of the opposition, then he leaves us. When we elected him, he could have been here the whole time, and now he's gone. And such conduct reminds me of the conduct of a man who rejected his wife, who had promised her heaven before marriage. On the other hand, I am disappointed at how the leader of the largest party in the interpellation was charged by the opposition. I think that this thing has been unworthy and I think that the biggest handling client is trying to create the impression that the internal situation in the LDS is responsible for all the bad work. This is as pointless as I would say that the government is doing very badly because of ministers in the government, such as Mr Erjavec, who first promised to make a good physical army, then promised that it would "fall down" when he spends tax money saying that it is within the Ministry that people are setting up these affairs. How can I, my fellow Members, in my office, say "poor Styria" to single mothers, those at the employment office, that our brilliant Foreign Minister, Mr. Rupel, spends a little less than a quarter of a million dollars on one night alone? Gentlemen, this can't be defended for some credible government. How can I say when people come to me and my parents are on the phone all the time, how can I say about Mr. Beast, who "stretched" the entry into high school and in very strange ways recruited the professional council for the education of the Republic of Slovenia? You see, dear fellows, I think that the government is not doing badly because of these things, but that the budget is preparing it as it was capable and as it has given us, and we have it here. There's something else I'd like to say. This mental concern for health within the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia has awakened me in the hope that this is very, very good for us, because after our election defeat, if the largest party of positions so cares for our health, it means that we are already doing very well. Second thing, about the obvious, about working in the National Assembly. Listen, it's not our health in the Liberal Democracy that we're doing bad. I've been in here myself since 1989, among veterans, and we've never done as bad as we do in this period. Look at why I couldn't go to the people's office today, even though I had a whole month planned so I could come and answer them. They don't understand that it's not my fault because they can't get to me that someone else is carrying this fault. It is impossible, listen, to accept the rebalance by taking the working body the day before this thing is dealt with, just starting with, it is completely irresponsible. Third time. Our discussions of some Members, including myself, which, because of what the leader of the Social Democrats Group has done, I take advantage of this Rules of Procedure, should be asked several times. [[...]] [[The river in Latin.]] - "If I were silent, I'd be a philosopher." [[...]] On many occasions, however, we ourselves are acting in such a way that the moral image of this national assembly falls low as it has not yet been. Regarding the obvious he's working for us in the past, I'm saying that I've heard this as some kind of interpretation against the previous position, and I have to say the following. Not only to look at the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, not to see in the upcoming elections only the Social Democratic Party, because in the current opposition we all participate. What happened in the past? Is it really us who's responsible for everything? Is it not possible that the public party, which is now your fine partner, was also a bit of a collusion, or is not DeSUS, which was your partner, even now a covert one, of the four parties who now run this position, are two from the past? If our ministers and people have been so bad, and respected colleagues and colleagues, I ask why you then took Mr Sponik for the Minister of Environment and Space if he had previously worked so badly here in Parliament and led this party. Why did you take Mr Virant as the minister who was previously Secretary of State in this government? Why did you take the most famous Mr. Ruple as another man in this government, but if the previous government was so distasteful? Why did you also take Mr. Christmas, but I will end up here in this team of government - that's what my colleague Friday said - if everything was so bad before? Such discussions, respected colleagues and colleagues, do not lead us far and we will not correct the reputation of the National Assembly. These people who have prepared this budget rebalancing have been working hours and hours. They tried to make the most of it, to present it here, and we should talk about it. But it seems to me, as far as my colleague, Mr Squill, is concerned, that he always did what was fair, that he did what the opposition could use, that is, words about the content programmes. Perhaps, however, the imperfections of some of the interlocutors have led to blows under the belt. And then it went on forever. Dear colleagues and colleagues in position, it would be good for you to look in the mirror before you throw your shovels at us again. You know that saying "semper or qui heret...", and it's not good, like "niil semper floret" will be better -- "nothing ever blooms." And maybe we'll switch and then this story will repeat itself. I remember my colleague, Mr Jerovšek, as he spoke and spoke and we left him on some committee. This was his legal right, and that's what he did, and that's why I'm not saying that he did it because his client was doing it wrong. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u47	Thank you, Mr. Mohet. Mr Jerovšek has the floor. Mr Capuder should be prepared and then Mr Hvauc.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished ministers! Actually, at a point like this, you don't know where to start. I must say, Comrade Moja, that when I should be in the office today, I was able to give the right answer, who is to blame for not being able to sit there today. Mr. Squeakl has been delaying on the parental committee, so that you may also give this answer. However, I also consider this to be legitimate if he has taken on this role. However, I think that from some of the previous discussions, little by little, what I was warned last week by a opposition member that the opposition will try to do its utmost to provoke the Members of the opposition, so that, in the absence of all the opposition's programme, they can use the only programme they currently have, that is to say, obstructions as the only programme. I don't know if you're going to continue like this - I'm not going to tell you what faction this Member was from, I'm going to keep that to myself. However, the fact is that some signs have shown this to be true. Before I go to the general debate, the current government would advise something - to prepare in the future budget, get rid of this methodology for budgeting, which the former government is led by LDS, I call LDS salads. This is completely imprudent, and if it fails, I know that this will be a very bad job, unnecessary work, because it could have been set up differently before, but then it can happen to us as it is in the LDS or with the European Constitution, when people have not recognized the opaque things and, of course, voted against. However, I must say that I am actually grateful to my colleague Gantar, who earlier said that if we did not deal with our own party, we would make significantly better proposals. I note from his frank statement that you have done a lot with a party in the past because I do not remember the good budgets. You were obviously more involved with the client than with the budget at the time, especially in the realisation. This is, of course, a vital part of today’s rebalancing. But the word "rebalancing" comes from rebalancing and balancing. And since this is about balancing what has not been given in a balanced way, you have been preparing this, in fact, in the debates of most former ministers I see that you are very self-critical. The extraordinary self-criticism has come to light here, because in fact those who have prepared the budget are the loudest and also the most amendments and so on. I'm grateful for this self-criticism. It is true, however, that this is also true what colleague Lahovnik last found out that we have a dearest country and that this is a terrible journey to the government, that it came into this state when the former government created the dearest country. And it's very difficult to take quick steps. We know that the administration is actually a very resilient, hard-core organism, which is terribly difficult to change. All of this, I think, is also realized by the leader of the opposition, who is not present in the budget debates, because he knows that if he did, he would actually disclose his own activities in the past. And look, it seems to me that the current government has made an effort to make this rebalance part of thinking about the future, no reference to the past, part of thinking about the future, but we know that in such a situation in the rebalancing of long-term moves, tectonic movements are difficult to make. I hope it will, and I'm sure it will, and it will work for the future. I am therefore pleased in this context that there will be significantly more money for investment transfers than has been achieved in the past. If I were you, I wouldn't be misdirecting and citing the data from the plans. I admit to this option that you were perfect in planning and misleading people. You've always had top-notch technology here, you can't be criticized here. You could convince yourself based on what you already knew in the future that you wouldn't make it happen, something happened, something that people even believed when they bombed with that kind of data, but it didn't go on forever. And, of course, I am also happy that there will be a little more for the congregations, for the needs of the congregations. And one last observation was that it wasn't developmental, that it was too low on technological development. I would also be happy to go more into technological development. At this point, I agree with the director of the Institute, Josef Štefan, who said two years ago that this government did not say government, but then you were in power, turned Slovenia into a technological colony, and you actually achieved that. Best [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u49	Mr Jerovšek, I would like to ask, the subject of discussion is a general part of the proposal for a 2005 budget rebalancing rather than the functioning of the previous government.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u50	Good. I'm comparing some of the indicators, and I have to say it. And actually technological development must be everyone's priority in the future, and I see this shift in this direction after these investment transfers. At the same time, I must also say about the active employment policy you had on your mouth. I see that more money is meant for realisation in the past, by saying that in the past this instrument has also been used many times for unclean purposes to receive money from political partners by formally creating jobs, then such an enterprise has been destroyed, demolished, and several times even received money. At the same time, it appeared to the public that I did not know how successful this active employment policy was. I support the new government that such a non-transparent way will no longer support that there is a need to make substantial more order here and that in fact only money needs to be given for truly newly created quality jobs. And last but not least, it has been reported here today that funds for veteran organisations are falling slightly. It seems normal to me that the number of veterans in the country is decreasing, these are unforgivable biological laws. It is true, however, that in the past it has increased that we still have an unusually high number of fighters today. I hope that among those who are entitled to these veteran supplements, there are also some current Members, presidents of fighting organisations who were not born at the time. But the question is, how are these funds distributed, that the number of veterans of that time continued to multiply. And I recognize those who were actually at the time of the war between the fighters against the invader, that they were going through all the resources, but along the biological path this matter is getting smaller and this is the normal response of the government to the situation. And let me also say that Minister Gantar said in the debate that he was always dissatisfied with the budget. I must say that I was always dissatisfied, even when he was a minister, because at the beginning of his term he promised the Order of Soča, Dravinje, there in Makola he promised at the time 8 years ago 200 million [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u51	Please, only Jerovšek has the floor. Mr Jerovšek please rebalance 2005.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u52	These funds were not later, and I hope that in the future we will be more satisfied with the budget, including myself, that these projects, which have been promised once again, will be implemented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u53	Thank you, Mr. Jerovska. Mr. Squeakle has reached out to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u54	Very briefly, Mr. Ambassador. If Mr Squeakl is to blame for having a rebalancing on Monday, when there are parliamentary offices, then of course I suppose Mr Squeakl has convened this meeting of the National Assembly. It's not. I didn't call this meeting of the National Assembly. This meeting of the National Assembly was convened by the President of the National Assembly after it was decided as decided. We could also hold a debate Thursday on the next financial perspective, even on Tuesday we proposed to hold it and perhaps to conclude the 7th regular meeting on Thursday, and then have a discussion on the rebalancing, but it was decided differently. I will no longer comment, except to quote the Chamber of Economics of Slovenia. Not only the opposition claims, but also the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, I quote document 3.6, sent to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, the Committee on the Economy, that the proposal for a 2005 budget rebalancing in a work directly related to the promotion and support of the development of the economy is not acceptable. I hope the Chamber of Commerce didn't sign the death warrant. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u55	Thank you, Mr. Squeakle. Mr. Moge has even responded to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u56	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the kind gesture in the previous debate. Mr Jerovšek, I too could explain to the voters why I have to be here today, but they did not understand that we asked the opposition to move this date either on Thursday or Friday, and they did not understand it, even though we made a written request to have a meeting on the second day that the position was not so fair, it was not good enough to accept it. So you must understand that those who live in great tribulations, that sometimes Members of Parliament are one of the lights to show them the way forward, cannot then believe it and then blame the national assembly and all Members at the same time, to act as we do. With regard to your assessments of the LDS salad and everything else you have said, Mr Jerovšek, another sentence [[It's a Latin saying.]] "Condemn well, there's always something going on." I do not think that this way of leading this national council will raise the reputation, nor do we ourselves, and I do not know what is in us to be so humiliated in public with such statements. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u57	Thank you, Mr. Mohet. He is now on the list of Mr Capuder, to prepare Mr Hvauc and then Mr Barovic. Here you go, Mr. Capuder.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u58	Thank you, Mr. President. In the debate or presentation by the opposition groups, it has been repeatedly said that we have the dearest country since independence. Here you go, opposition gentlemen. For 12 years you have created it and made it even more expensive, especially in some segments to express it irrationally. One of the biggest users of the budget, where there has been a lot of irrationality in the past, is the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, and the proposed rebalancing solutions at least partially seek to remedy or remedy the situation at hand at this Ministry. Social assistance and family benefits should be increased as indicators indicate an increase in recipients of such aid under laws adopted by the LDS Coalition. For legal recipients, it is necessary to provide money because it would be unheard of if a month before the end of the year had happened to run out of money and I think that Christmas celebration of such recipients would have been a piano thing. However, I am sure that the government will not be throwing money at a variety of political botts, which, under the concept of active employment policy or something else, have poured entrepreneurs, speculators into their pockets. There are many examples from the past. The Minister immediately changed his practice and I welcome his doing to provide one-off payments for new jobs only under the condition of good insurance, whether bank guarantee or mortgage insurance. The proposal for a Ministry of Labour rebalancing provides for around 2.5 billion more this year than was intended for the 2005 budget. More funds are being allocated primarily to the operation of social work centres, because in my view, in the previous government, they were so disincentived that they planned costs for only 11 months for the work of social work centres and employees in them. Understand who can understand that! I can't understand it. If such a situation continued, there would be about a thousand employees without pay. The operation of the Republic Employment Office, which ended in loss in 2004, and this loss has to be covered. I think that the work of the current government is responsible when it tries to cover the mistakes of the past and I think that this is the property of a good government. In the proposal for a rebalancing, several funds are also earmarked for social benefits. As can be seen from the balance sheet, these funds are virtually 4 billion more. More money is also earmarked for family benefits, and I think this means that this government is facing its family and promoting demographic development. More money is also earmarked for an active employment policy, because I think it is right to give money to someone on the basis of a programme, not money because the poor person is unemployed. More money is also earmarked for the social protection of the materially threatened, an increase of about 3 billion. I think the government's attitude is positive. However, the money is declining in the balance sheet on the war veterans’ posts, as data show that the beneficiaries of the "combat" duties are increasing, according to some figures 44 000. Some 18 billion will be earmarked for these benefits. I am of the opinion that this is quite enough, since there should be beneficiaries of some natural logic increasingly less and not more. But I also suggest to the government that this area be settled as soon as possible and that the system allowing such anomalies be revised as soon as possible. I am confident that such a revised budget will be more useful and transparently used than has been foreseen in the past. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u59	Thank you, Mr. Capudre. Mr Hvauc has the floor to prepare Mr Barovic for this and Mr Prevc.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u60	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor! When we have listened to the difficult words about this rebalancing, that is to say that it is a non-developmental document, that we are the most expensive country in the world, even as far as the state administration is concerned, we need to know, of course, that we are not talking about the budget, but about a document that some existing budget is correcting, which is adapted to the existing situation that we are accepting in order to harmonise the actual situation. It is true that the balance is needed due to some changed circumstances. I'd like to give you an example. The fact that public sector funds are increasing is, of course, true. But we have to ask ourselves why. Why did the number of employees in the public sector increase last year, which, of course, entails an increase in wages? What will we do with these people, or will we put them on the road, or will they lose their wages, or will we have to adjust to this situation with a balance? However, another area that I find even more critical, such as adapting to these changed circumstances, is planning. Several examples suggest that this budget, which is still in force for 2005, has not been planned carefully, precisely, I can argue that in some cases even recklessly. I can give you a few examples here, too. When we examined the area of the judiciary, we found that the budget would have to target 20% and more in individual courts, including up to 30%, for salaries and some other costs. No court in Slovenia has recently changed so much that such an adjustment is necessary. This means that when this budget was adopted, it was actually very bad planning. Another example is from education - 23.8 billion tolars are missing. If there's no balance, what does that mean? To extend their holidays to September, October and so on? Or will the teachers work for free, without pay? If I say another example, the area of transport or, in particular, rail transport, where more than 20 billion Slovenian tolls were lost because there were not enough funds planned for the regular maintenance of infrastructure, because there were insufficient means to manage transport and because no VAT resources had been planned, although we had known VAT for quite some time in 2003 but there were no such funds in the budget. They're just gone. Perhaps there is some kind of well-meaning advice from our colleague, Cricket, that I do not know who would like to provide a textbook on how to get EU funding. I'll give you the case again. In the rail sector, we have a deposited, unexploded billion tolars since the beginning of the year. [[it's just one item]] which cannot be used for the implementation of these projects because not a single toll is foreseen in this year's budget for these projects, but not since yesterday or before yesterday, but for quite some time. That we have a bunch of ongoing projects, but because there is no funding available for co-financing, there is a threat that the matter will stop and that these European funds will simply have to be returned. What a shame! This means that, for the first time, we throw away the funds we receive essentially free of charge and the indirect damage caused by the halting of projects, due to disputes with operators and so on. Not to mention damage to the rail system itself, because the projects will not be completed and the infrastructure will remain in the same clairvoyant state as it is. And we should be aware of that because, in fact, every day that we delay the adoption of this, there is great, great damage. And this, once again, should be before everyone who talks about how well-intentioned they are, how carefully they study each item individually, and I really think it's about everything else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mr Barovic has the floor. Then Mr. Prevc. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u62	Thank you. 24 colleagues and colleagues have gathered us in this National Assembly at a time when we are talking about the budget rebalancing, not to mention the respected two ministers, thank you for being with us, and now we are already 27 minus 1 is 26 - because that makes the only sense to count and count. I've been counting on the night, the day, the two days and the night to talk about the rebalancing. The balance of the budget means moving funds from one item to another, in our case also some corrections, which is, of course, perfectly normal for the government to find out. I was counting on today to talk about everything that we felt after the night, stressing it, and finding out for two days on the working body. But obviously we all want to talk about everything we can, just about the balance, not that we're going to have as little time as possible for content. I go on, I'm disappointed on the one hand and on the other, no offense, I'm being honest. The current position spits out the previous position, now the opposition, the opposition spits and talks about the current position, but I did not understand in these four hours or what - five hours we have already spent - essentially for an hour of substantive concerns. Personally, I have asked very clear questions exactly, specifically, from the point we are talking about, about the general part of the balance, about points 1, 2, I will be very accurate, very specific, 2.1.4 - I have not received the answer clearly and probably not. I also asked about the point between sides 0 to 50, which speaks of the general part of the budget - I didn't get the answer - but most of them say what someone did, what someone didn't do and what we politicize in billions, thousands of billion tolars. It makes sense that everyone is fighting for their own resources. Those we have invested in the general and special part of the amendment, we want under A, or we want to keep what was envisaged, but with the budget rebalancing or the draft of the rebalancing has changed, decreased, as well as those who want something for which there is no basis, but just want. But that's normal. Another time. Today we've heard expressions repeatedly, some say they're something to get something. No, dear colleagues and colleagues, we are parliamentary! Those who were sitting on the committee know that it is not about getting or not getting, it is essentially about keeping or not keeping. Let's be honest with people, not be political about who did and who doesn't. Lastly, you know, I too - this judge, I will prove that it belongs to the general part - as the mayor of the municipality of Trbovlje became the mayor of the opposition and I got something of a position - even if then the Liberal Democracy and the Social Democrats - started with what I continued and I personally said to them, thank you for having started and I continued and ended. And the balance of the budget must be that even as the previous authorities - let's leave it, let's be realistic - failed, let's go on now, let's go on, let's go on, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go. Okay, thank God, the goal is to do something. See, the Zasavi members we informally joined together into a club, and the Social Democrats, the Liberal Democrats, the Slovenian Democrats, the Slovenian National Party and the SLS are among them. And we put in uniform amendments, regardless of political color, and we agreed, we can't interfere, the balance has to be, the balance has to be. We cannot interfere with the balance there in order to dream of something that we do not have a basis for - it belongs to the general part and I will be done soon - but we have said, let us give where we have foreseen in general work, in the field of roads, in the field of education, in the field of health, let us give what we have all the papers for, what we have done honestly and openly, what we belong to us and what we do not let them take, let us put it in the form of amendments and defend. We made up other stories we didn't and we won't, no matter what the LDS said in previous power or what the Slovenian Democratic Party in the coalition in the current power will say. The balance of the budget is a correction of something, we know that we will not be able to get everything we want in life. Let us propose what we want to achieve, what is essential, what we want and what we will get out of this together. This is logical and historic and the goal of all of us is to achieve something. Last but not least, why not keep it, I stress again, but I am not defending anyone, this time I am absolutely on the opposition's side, because the opposition is the only one who has tabled the amendments. And in the past government of the Liberal Democracy and the Social Democrats before the United List, it was so that the amendments were also on their side, and all of them were adopted, but all of them were not accepted by the opposition, or most were not accepted. And now it's going to be the same, the same story, but let's make amendments, show people that we don't want to invent ourselves and to be politically flexible, but that we want what we've drawn up, what we've made plans for, what people in the field of roads, health, local and regional governments have invested in getting this done. Because, last but not least, we all work for the people, for our Slovenia, for our own good. And in the end we will once - today we have heard a very good theory. Then the balance or budget is good when it's full of contradictions, because all of a sudden it's not going well. And last but not least, I would say what my respectable colleague will continue to say. Nor was it fair on the part of the position that I respect, which I believe is trying to make a good balance, said that no one in the field of concrete rail transport - this also falls into the general part - has tabled amendments, comments and wishes for something to happen in this area. That's not true! And I don't accept a flat rate like that. I do not accept and cannot accept it because my respected colleague has tabled four or three amendments for major and important changes in the rail sector. He tabled them and filed them in accordance with the general and specific parts as amendments and tabled them correctly. But you can't say he didn't do it. However, if we were all to see now only that there is one position and the other the opposition, and that this is why - Mr Starman has used the term "breathing..." and a few picks several times justly on the committee. Then let's go! But that's not what this is about. We have proposed changes for the railway, we want them if these are possible, let the government say they are possible. And if he evaluates when we talk about the second track and the development of this country's transport, whether he accepts it or says it, we can't accept it, we'll accept it in a year, two or three. Just like we have to work at the local level, so let's say some things have priority, and we'll do others later. And once again, the balance of the budget is the right of the government to formulate such a financial policy that is intended to benefit the country. And it is the right of the opposition to protect and defend what it has earned in the beginning. The alignment is difficult, and there is no budgetary rebalancing for the political accounting of the past and the present. So I know, look, we've spent almost five hours. For amendments that will require substantive renewal, however, we will be running out of time, which I think is not good. I end with the question of whether the budget is designed to improve the situation in the country, the Republic of Slovenia, given all that is happening, or whether it is intended to have political accounts among us. But on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, ladies and gentlemen, on both sides, you do not want this. Because if we come to this, then this session won't be over for long, and the most obvious will be right on this side.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mr Prevc has the floor, and Mr Friend will be next.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u64	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Honorable Minister with co-workers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I would like to say just a few words about today's point of view, that is to say, the consideration of the budget's balance. The fact is that, for the first time as a Member, I am meeting this document, although this does not mean that I do not know such a document, because as a mayor, I am actually the one who proposes a budget every year and also a budget rebalance. So I know that the budget is a document, in fact the most important document, which expresses the concept of development in all areas, the concept of the proposer. This is said if, in the case of the municipality, this is the mayor, then, of course, in the case of the National Assembly, the government's candidate and the government coalition is, in fact, not clear to me what has been said previously, that the budget or the draft budget balance is not yours or ours. Of course, money is tax-paying and, of course, according to the government coalition strategy, the government coalition has been tasked with actually dividing this money according to the development strategy and, last but not least, according to the coalition contract as honestly as possible. That's the budget. In fact, the balance of the budget is what we have heard several times today, but of course there is some balance between revenue and expenditure, and in fact, given that I am the first to witness the adoption of the budget balance, it seems to me that it is strange that the controversy around this balance is actually so far drawn that it is actually so long and that someone can say that the balance of the budget is not developmental. I don't agree with that. It's hard to talk about a developmental balance. We will talk about the development-oriented budget, which, of course, this government or this government coalition will be engaged in in the coming months. But we can actually say that this is the budget of this government coalition. There, I expect very sharp debates, a sharp debate. In fact, it seems to me that it might be a little odd why, in fact, so many debates about this, because we really want this budget rebalance to be adopted as soon as possible, so that certain tasks arising from this budget can also be carried out. I believe that it is time for us to stop talking about this, that the previous government has cooked, that it has happened in the previous government, I believe, but we are talking about the budget rebalancing, that is to say that the budget adopted by the previous government, of course, is difficult to avoid such a debate. In these debates, mainly by the opposition, I have heard why this balance of the budget is not development-oriented. One answer was this: because he spends too much money on the congregations and through the amendments, more money is needed for the congregations. This surprises me because it is the municipalities of the medium, especially the medium, and especially the small, which we have experienced in the past in a rather difficult situation, because we know that in recent years, the municipal budget has been burdened with some of the obligations that the state has constantly and continuously imposed on us, but of course it has not covered them financially. We have calculated that in this way we have lost 30% of the funds in an appropriate use, which means a great deal of damage to the development projects of the municipalities. And the fact is that the mayors in this budget rebalancing saw a point of light, but they saw that the government would behave significantly differently to the municipalities in the beginning, because 10% of the principals provided to us, of course, mean a great deal to the municipalities. And we believe and we will also work to ensure that the 30% I talked about before will also be covered in due time and not finally evened. Of course, we are still somewhere, not least, disappointed about the balance in this direction, because quite a few projects have come up below. Above all, it is difficult to accept the fact that there have been some projects in the area of state roads, where we know that the matter is catastrophic. We know why the rebalancing has occurred, we know why the rebalancing is happening, we all know that sparrows already think it's sizzling, that those 70 billion had to be provided extra, and that's why certain items were somehow polished, including the area of roads. And we, in the budget I spoke about earlier, will be very careful for 2006 and 2007, and we will work to ensure that the state roads in this strategy are given some priority by the government strategy. Given that a national programme for the construction of reconstruction or construction and reconstruction and reconstruction of state roads is in preparation, I am optimistic. I am optimistic that it will improve significantly in this area. I would like to conclude this brief presentation somewhere, and I will accept the balance of the budget, and I am not personally satisfied with everything, but with optimism I will continue to prepare the budget for 2006-2007, where the development strategy of this government coalition will be expressed, which is not the last part of the coalition treaty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mr Friend has the floor, Mr Janc is next.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u66	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, distinguished ministers! Let me be a little critical of what we have before us today. In fact, 77 amendments have been tabled, the mother's working body has confirmed 7 and no one will be confirmed today. These are black predictions. And if we essentially consider that the government had no easy work to do when it had to patch up a lot of holes in this budget with a balance, but I would point out something that we all forgot about together, that is a national interest. It is the national interest of the Republic of Slovenia to prioritise the development of transport infrastructure. The national interest of the Republic of Slovenia should be that of the development of education as a priority, to develop agriculture, which is already so neglected in our country. In the latter area, we have a total of EUR 13.8 million because we do not have harmonised legislation. Is it not a shame that we cannot draw on the money that Europe has been offering us this short time; tomorrow, we know that we will no longer be a recipient country, that we will be a donor country? Last but not least, I asked the question of how much money we lost in the past because of incompetent bureaucrats who either did not apply for European calls or did not provide sufficient funds in the budget for their own subsidy, or did not run projects properly and we had to cut off the investment and, of course, return the money. I didn't get an answer. No one in this country is responsible for this. This is a major economic damage that is reflected in millions of euros. And finally, Luca Koper, as our main attribute, our window into the world, has quite a few projects that are built on black, actually operating in violation of the law, because the country couldn't listen to this great giant, to open up and actually start doing legal business. With the Club of Maritime Members, we visited Luka and the Director of Luke or the President of the Administration himself told us what they had done in black and how they were trying to legalise the matter so that the matter could flow smoothly. Of course, when we deal with road infrastructure, I am also sad to see that there is no connection between the Solkan part of Primorski. The Minister himself was invited to take a look at this. The mayor of Nova Gorica also addressed many requests to various authorities in the country, but without success. I myself have tabled an amendment that has been smoothly rejected. I would also point out that it is pointless and irrelevant for state-owned companies to pay in some way on a tax paper to the State. I have proposed two billion of these taxes in the field of rail infrastructure, freight and passenger transport, which is currently being charged on paper. The railways are burdened with this expenditure, but it doesn't show any good, they'll have to pay for it. However, this holding of Slovenian Railways is owned by the state. And, you know, when a man looks at these fates of different city attributes - I myself have faced the problem of an isolation hospital, a sedentary hospital, a champagne hospital, which should have received the budgetary resources they were receiving but not received, because the former minister and the current minister so decided. It wasn't even completely revalued, nor were you paid for any extra programs, nor were the development programs paid, but the hospitals are city attributes. All coastal cities that have hospitals are dealing with the same problem. Now I've found some of these cases. But the best thing I want to do is focus on what I know best, these are railways. Look, we're running out of cargo because we don't have 22.5 tons of basic pressure in the whole area of Styria, and we can't actually carry the cargo. We have also witnessed this at the last visit of the Minister of Transport of the Austrian State, when he made it clear to our Minister that he cannot agree with the logistics of transport transport, but that Europe is saying that more and more heavy cargo needs to be diverted to the railway. We have not yet started to use EUR 5.8 million, grants for the construction of a second track, because we have not yet agreed on the contractor. I have heard encouraging words from the Minister today, and it is likely that this will soon come to light, but we could start using these funds by now. These land could already be prepared, purchased, project documentation implemented. Today, this hour runs on the pontetic track Cervignano, Villach, Hungary, Budapest, we lose our cargo because we are ourselves unable to protect our national interests and because we share in the left and right and because we share in who proposed something and because we share in it essentially who will be who. You know, that's kind of funny, everyone has something smart when they propose certain things, and it would be up to us to be judgmental and to put things on the scale and to consider what we're all talking about here and to say good things. In this context, I also do not agree with the urgency of the night session, 30 hours spent on the budget rebalancing, in the end, we see that this is a barren work. This will probably also confirm the vote. Of course, the real picture of this government will show up with a new budget, I agree, I would like this budget to be developed, I would like to be able to speak better next year about this year, but for now I can say that what we have before us is one great sadness. For elementary schools we can't find money to cover the roof! The document must be signed by 20 Members, so that a committee, which is a parent part of the body, will have mercy and be confirmed and likely to fall smoothly tomorrow. This is probably not right, we are all accountable to the people who elected us, and I think that national interests should all defend more clearly and unequivocally. In this sense, I am a little sad when I look at all these yawning holes and all these projects that are unresolved and all these things that are inconvenient, while we cannot help but forget the great things that Europe is offering us and we do not even know how to take them away. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mr Yelen has the floor, Mr Gaber is next. Please, Mr. Yelen.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u68	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ambassadors and Members of the Council of Ministers. Almost a week or a month goes by, in which the spirits of the burden of the pension register, its operation, the takeover of the euro would not be stirred. The strategic world is also often divided into doubts as to whether we are overburdened by the state or whether you will allow the elderly to live with dignity. I am of the opinion that in their lives they have tried as hard as possible to contribute to the country and its development. We can't just write this generation down in the future. With its contributions and investments in simple and widespread reproduction, to the assets remaining as our contribution to businesses. I believe that in the future we will have to take proper care of these people, show them that they are an equivalent member of our society. In the past we have also experienced a lot of promises on pensions, and we have not yet seen the realizations. Your Honor! I am convinced that this government, this coalition, is thinking appropriately in the direction of solving problems, particularly irregularities that are repeatedly and repeatedly revealed. The balance shows that there will be a need to reduce public spending in order to obtain more funding from the European Union. That the rebalancing was good, I was convinced by the fact that it was about major investments in the economy, in tourism, in various restructurings, in justice, in the main municipalities. The rebalancing is cost-effective and prudent, and irregularities that are largely present in our society will need to be addressed: excessive debts, irregularities in the ministries of agriculture, justice, health, social. This is a way to save more budget resources. Once all this is resolved, we will save a lot of resources. I think, however, that the reduction in funds at the expense of the school balance and road infrastructure can bear the consequences, which will necessarily be corrected in the 2006 budget plan.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mr. Germich has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word. In this national assembly, we have heard Mr Janša, Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, several times. I listened very closely to his performances when he presented the programme on his own behalf as a candidate for Prime Minister and then as Prime Minister, who represented a government programme and synthesized individual areas from individual ministries. This programme predicted certain measures that could be estimated to be implemented already through the budget rebalancing that is ahead of us this time. Unfortunately, we must find that today's performance by the Prime Minister, as well as the presentation of the rebalancing, as the very content of the budget's rebalancing does not reflect what has been heard by the Prime Minister in the past. However, it is certainly not possible to see how this budget rebalancing reflects what has often been laid as a foundation; therefore, of course, all the measures taken by the new government will go in the direction of ensuring the competitiveness of the economy. Of course, here, as soon as I continue to discuss the content, I would be involved in my own discussion on the assessment of this material. I was disappointed by the fact that we had only a few vocations on the agenda of interested working bodies. In fact, all of the working bodies or most of the working bodies led by the coalition had no intention of addressing the content of the rebalancing in particular areas, which shows in fact the relationship to one of the most important or fundamental documents of the Republic of Slovenia, this is a state budget which, of course, would be able to carry out in-depth discussions across individual ministries. Only the demands of the Liberal Democracy Club of Parliament have prompted the need, in accordance with the rules of procedure, for these committees to be convened. In fact, we have witnessed a brief introductory presentation by individual ministries on these committees, and then more or less the silences of the coalition Members, when we could naturally discuss the individual sets in depth. The continuation of such an approach was a meeting of the parent working body. There is no way to imagine that within the five hours available, the individual contents of the budget's balance could be thoroughly addressed. And from this point of view, I find completely unfounded criticisms that this time fly to the opposition that, I don't know, with what approaches, we carried out methods somehow, in order not to adopt the budget's balance or to reach a delay. I think it was quite the opposite that the ruling coalition with such a timetable, which then also reached out to the scheduled regular meetings that are taking place, is in the midst of extraordinary meetings, and the extraordinary meeting and regular meetings are held by exchanging them in the days or even during the day when the extraordinary meeting replaces the regular and then the regular once again extraordinary meetings. I think that these are very, very bad aspects of the work of this national assembly and, of course, the budget itself is being dealt with today, even after what has been said here many times, a long meeting at the home labour body. I myself participated in a parental body meeting, although I am not a member of this parent body for a simple reason, so that I could already present views at the parent’s work body’s session on certain substantive movements that can be shown here in this balance. I think that from last year's election to the start of a new government, and to this day, a lot has changed. If I mention only one of the key events within the European Union, this is a revised Lisbon strategy as one of the core documents that should actually narrow down its priorities into three sets, namely competitiveness, growth and employment, such a document, such a revised document should in fact find a fundamental orientation in reading the budget rebalancing for this year. I'm afraid it's not. I think the government has spent a lot of time, energy and effort to stabilise its powers in a wide variety of areas. Therefore, there have also been some legal changes here, and certainly a lot of energy is also devoted to changing councils, supervisory committees, both economic operators and others, institutions and institutions. We can then meet here with the monitoring of development policy in Slovenia. I cannot agree at all that it is simply an adjustment to existing changes or a minimum change in this budget and the calculation of past governance, because the balance of this budget indicates the direction of this government's policy. And how to understand the competitiveness of the economy if, on the one hand, we can adopt a substantial reduction in the funds for technological development, where we can monitor the failure to implement the basic orientation, so that, with the incentives of the economy, innovation in the economy, through the calls presented in recent times, we do not see that this fundamental message of creating the economy's competitiveness can be achieved. I therefore do not accept in any way that we are not talking today about the content of this balance, but it is actually about going back to the past, the criticisms and criticisms that we, for example, could have been accompanied by a bad year or a good year ago during the interpretation phase of the previous government. Let me now somehow focus on the three programming sets that touch on the balance and the general part of the budget. First of all, I'd like to touch the health field. In the area of health, I could say that, after several years of constant growth in the 2005 budget, this rebalancing can be seen as a decline in funds worth good two billion, and from 19 billion to 17 billion we are reducing health funding. This is followed by two important sets, investments in hospitals and a second set of so-called health care programmes. If we look at the first area, the investments in health care, in hospitals, we see that this is a reduction of 2.7 billion. At the meeting of the working body, the Minister said that it was not a problem that this year's investments would be realised. Of course, there is no answer as to how investments will take place in the future. We've heard there's already a set of 36 objects out of the 22s. The funds that could be transferred to the budget fund are being cancelled and, of course, we are seeing a decrease in funds under this heading. I think that this orientation is a policy that will not ensure the quality of the health insurance rights in the future. The second area is the provision of preventive measures in the field of health, where funds are also being severely reduced. And if we link this to the draft laws that actually affect the rights of insurance compensation for absence from work due to sickness, injury or accidents, of course, then we can already understand a policy that is in grave breach of public funds in this area. The next thing I would like to draw attention to is, in the field of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, in particular the labour market and working conditions. This is a drastic reduction of 2 billion in active employment policy. I come from an area facing one of the greatest unemployment rates that we have been able to successfully reduce due to effective action on active employment policies in recent years. There is no way that I can agree here that these funds have gone so far as to have a political well-being and that, of course, lowering the funds on this content does not actually mean what we are concerned about in the LDS House of Members. This is that those who are uncompetitive in the labour market will become even more so. For those over 50 who have a first or second level of education show less competitiveness in the labour market and in this area active employment policies are declining. What are these messages? These are the messages that those who want retraining, those who want additional education, those who are older and who want redirection, will be prevented from doing so. And if we sum up the basic objective of the labour market and working conditions, this is that employment growth represents one of the most important macroeconomic objectives to achieve the balance of Slovenia's social economic development, I do not think that we will achieve such objectives by such measures. I would therefore like to point out that the content of this balance is a reflection of the development policy, the development orientation of this new government. It is certain that consideration of the 2005 budget balance should have a normal procedure. In view of the time constraints, this, of course, resulted in more or less incapacitated. Of course, I would like today's debate, once we come to individual amendments, to justify the need for these amendments, and I would like to see this budget balance improved by adopting the amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u71	Mr Hrvat has the floor, Mr Janc will be next.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u72	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. In other words, the material for this agenda item could also be referred to as a necessary correction of the failed financial policy of the former government. Now that the financial situation has been reviewed, we can see that the actual financial situation is by no means pink. The budget balance ahead of us is, therefore, a necessary correction only on the basis of the existing legislation and contains an assessment by the professional institution of the expected revenue in 2005, and the current government has prepared, with its professional services, those necessary corrections on the expenditure side that were in the budget adopted in today's composition of the National Assembly, planned to be too small or not at all. In this way, some of the priorities of the new government are already being demonstrated, and more will be reflected in the 2006 budget. I would not mention more detailed figures indicating the necessity of such a budget balance, as other colleagues and colleagues are or will speak about it. I would, however, touch on the financial deficit, which we know is extremely high and has grown steadily under the rule of the LDS from year to year. Given the self-sustaining high level of expertise of the government in the previous mandate, they should have a significantly lower deficit than planned. In May 2004, she sent a report to Brussels, which mentions a deficit of 2.1, and the current new government will reduce it to 1.4% with this rebalancing. We can therefore find that in Slovenia there was still a need for new brooms in terms of political change and that the new government coalition has demonstrated, despite a very short period of time, that it is possible to manage public finances substantially differently. This is certainly not a rebalancing of lost opportunities, as one of the LDS members said at the committee meeting, but it is a rebalancing that will bring us back to the right path, which will be negative trends created in the previous term, in the short term turning us into positive ones. Of course, the current opposition Members want to interpret things differently in this and other way, which is their right, because we live in a democratic country where opinions can be freely expressed. It might be good to remind the current opposition that, as a Member State of the European Union, we are committed to respecting the criteria of the Maastricht agreements, and it is high time that our public finances become more transparent and that, as finance ministers say, the concept of fiscal discipline is created. I will certainly support the proposed budget balance for at least two reasons: firstly, due to the necessity of correcting the financial policy of the previous government and secondly, due to the regulation of the state of public finances in our country. In my support for this rebalancing, it also speaks of the fact that the parent committee is composed of representatives of all political parties in this Parliament, which has dealt with this material, adopted or supported the draft budget. Of course, I also trust the balance and give it my full support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mr Janc has the floor, Mr Horvat Jože is next.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The debate on the rebalancing is a really important document for the government, for the national assembly, and also for politics, normally. That is why so many words around this balance, which I think are perfectly normal as a result of something, some of the urgent changes that this government, the new government, must prepare: harmonise income, expenditure. There is nothing here that we should be sitting on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy for 30 hours. I just don't get it, and it's gonna be hard to understand. Finally, the new government also has new priorities, new perspectives, which, by the way, could not reconcile much of this balance, because this circle is more or less complete. However, I think it was necessary that this rebalancing has taken place and that it will take place as soon as possible, in the National Assembly, to open the door to the European drawback of the resources that I think are urgently needed for Slovenia and also for the new Slovenian government and the deficit that it has created, which must be aligned with the actual state of revenue that this government is planning. I hope that it has been a happy hand and that it has well anticipated the entire budget of 2005 and that this rebalancing is actually a response to a situation and that income will also be as realistic as possible, that we will not again have a new rebalancing on the table in the autumn. Even if there is, it is no sin, it is a normal institution used by all those who are budgetary users, both local communities and countries as a whole. I think it is also good that this rebalancing increases money where it has certainly been fed: the judiciary, we have heard the Minister of Finance, the culture, and perhaps some others would necessarily need certain corrections in a positive sense, that is, more money, which unfortunately is not there at this point. We have heard that there will be a little more money for investments, although all the wishes already made with the 2005 budget will certainly not be realized and they will have to wait for the next budget adopted in 2006/2007. I understand that, too, in a way. Of course, public spending, we all talk about this often, the position and opposition, is absolutely too great. Here I hope that the government will come from words to action and will try this mass, which is extremely large, and largely too weakly effective, to reduce to the welfare of the taxpayers of the Republic of Slovenia. This will be a difficult task, a long-standing process that will require tolerance, in my opinion, one way or another, to find this story, which is too extensive, slightly on the real ground and adapt it to Slovenian taxpayers, especially the situation of the Slovenian economy, which is what it is. Reducing the deficit - it sounds good, well, the brave thing the minister made with his team, I think it's a very good thing. Perhaps I think, as a member or mayor, that we are talking less about transport, when we are talking about the direction, when we are talking about the urgent maintenance of state roads, when we are talking about Slovenian railways, a story that is difficult, difficult, and which, in my opinion, would make sense and a little more money for each of us Members. We know regional roads, how poor they are, how urgently they need additional money. However, I understand in a way that this government, in this package, at this time of rebalancing, is not able to increase this story a little bit, and I strongly believe that both the opposition and the position would be pleased to support such an amendment if we found a little more money here. Of course, I will support this rebalancing, in the belief that this is an urgent need, that adequate resources should be obtained from the European Union and that we will be more successful in drawing on it than in the past. And this is where we have to do this work, which I think has been one of the worst in the past. I also believe that the ministry or government as a whole will take into account these numerous comments, which have been made in the form of amendments, and have been rejected both by the opposition and by the position, by the arguments we have received from the representatives of the government, and I believe they are true and well-intentioned. Of course, I must say, dear colleagues and colleagues, that the purpose is good, and I would like both the position and the opposition to lower the temperature a little bit. I think this guy at this 7th regular session has grown too much, too much. At these points, we got a little too loose. This is not good for the reputation of this national council, it is not good for the reputation of both the position and the opposition. And I think it's right to step on the brake a little bit, to cool our nerves a little bit, but we're trying to work well for the benefit of one and the same citizens, both of them. This would also be a good journey to this balance, which I know is such a document that can be talked about, to which there is a lot of desire and many goals, but we are fighting among ourselves, there are various obstructions and so on. I don't think that's right, and after that, we're being evaluated by our citizens, and I don't think they're happy with that. I think that it is necessary to be objective, and that, after all, in opposition, which has certain good points of view, even certain things should be respected for the benefit of those who would be able to do so, this government can somehow do for the benefit of both. And I think that this is the work of the President of the National Assembly, along with my colleagues, to try to reduce this temperature a little bit, to lower it down, that we will all be together - I think we've got a good start on this mandate of the National Assembly, and now there's a hot spot when we kind of want to split up, and I don't think that's right. I would suggest, however, that the President and both Vice-Presidents or all three of them step together and do something about it. However, I want this balance - I really want both of them to be accepted as soon as possible and to give power to the government, to the individual ministries, to start working actively. And of course, respected colleagues and colleagues: yes, the previous government has not done well. This too is unlikely to be optimal in all respects. However, I think that the time when we will accept the rebalancing will be, but the time when we stop pointing our finger at the former government, but above all, we will set ourselves here as to how we will lead the coalition treaty, how we will carry out the many desires of the coalition that we have at that time to the Slovenian government, and that we will finally come from words to action and do what citizens rightly and eagerly expect from the Slovenian government and this Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mr. Horvath has the floor. Mr Bevk will be next. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u76	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear ministers, distinguished representatives of the government, dear colleagues and colleagues. I am convinced that Members and Members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia all understand and distinguish what constructive debate means and what it means to delay. A case of delay is if my fellow Member at a parental body meeting has been talking for about 20 minutes about supporting the amendment for the railway at Hrastnik, which, of course, I have nothing against if necessary, but I am very opposed to delaying if, in defending the so-called amendment, a comparison is made with the bypass around Washington, which is said to have a key importance for traffic between New York and Los Angeles. That, in the middle of the Journal, a statement by my fellow Member, which I will not appoint, which could replicate to me, which would generate delay, and the Diary writes, I quote, "The LDS Member, Milan M. Zvikl, explained that he was the basic motive for the conduct of the members of the two opposition parties at the committee meeting to prevent the full consideration of the proposal for a rebalancing within 5 hours." [[End of story.]] Here I want to defend those opposition Members, in defence of opposition Members who did not have this purpose, as they have shown by leaving their colleague in the morning. How New York and Los Angeles affect the Slovenian budget should be decided by the electorate and the electorate. Prime Minister Janez Janša said and argued that the adoption of the budget balance is in a hurry. We all know that. Every day of delay, however, in some symbolic sense means 4.86 billion Slovenian tolars. Who's gonna pay for the pens? And, now to be discussed in several specific items and figures or chapters of the proposal for the 2005 budget rebalancing of the Republic of Slovenia. For the introduction, we do not share 1,775 trillion Slovenian tolars today, as we and the Slovenian public were taught on Friday, because half of this money has actually been realized. I have narrowed my debate in terms of defending the balance of the budget to a few points. First time. Statement by the opposition: "You have reduced funds for active employment policy programmes." I'm in. That's not true. Resources for the purpose of active employment policy increased by 20% compared to spending in 2004, from 17.2 billion to 20 and a half billion tolars. It is necessary to add that unemployment has decreased by about 2% in the last year, so we even wonder if we can even spend the entire planned amount. Surely, however, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not intend to spend a lot of money and give money to various companies that have gone or are about to go bankrupt or have retransmitted money for other unfair and illegal purposes. Secondly, the opposition's claim: "You've reduced the funds for livestock." What is "one family policy now?" I'm responsible. There's as much money in the rebalancing as is required by law and nothing more. But there's obviously fewer children, because there's fewer children. Why don't we plan on actual data, but let's not, let's say, "louft" data, as it used to be. Otherwise, we have increased the funds for family benefits by about 1.3 billion Slovenian tolars. Thirdly, the opposition's claim: "You haven't given your mother's homes any more, even though you're fighting for your families." I'm in. Mother's homes have the same amount of money. This will cover all the needs identified by the October 2004 invitation to tender at the time of the Robbery Government. If it's not planned enough, let's have the planner write it to himself. This government had to harmonise the decisions of the former government financially. I want to point out what seems particularly important to me. Social assistance and family benefits had to be increased because the indicators indicated an increase in recipients of this aid under laws adopted by the LDS Coalition. For legal benefits, it is necessary to provide money because it would be unheard of if the money ran out for a month. And that would have happened in December, for Christmas. You can imagine that in those days, poor people or weakly standing families would not receive social assistance, a child’s allowance, illness, disability, and the like. Fourth time. I also apologize for the fact that the balance of the budget increases the volume of wage funds, as the number of employees in the public administration authorities has increased dramatically. In 2001 for 971 people, in 2002 568 people, in 2003 1,320 people and last year for 1,121 people. These people are here, and they need to be paid. Otherwise, it seems that the government will not be throwing money to the various political botts, which it is, I am not saying that it is not under the title of an active employment policy or anything else that it is pouring into the pockets of entrepreneurs, speculators. Thank God the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs has immediately changed the practice of providing one-off payments for new jobs only under the condition of good insurance, such as bank guarantee or mortgage insurance. This is the basic principle of every good master. We promised citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia in the pre-election period, among other things, that we would ensure fair reconciliation of pensions with salaries, which is what we now realize with the rebalancing. We promised to try to eliminate the financial malnutrition of the middle and small congregations. This is now realized by an increase of 7.3% real. Investment expenditure is increased by more than 23% nominally according to the 2004 realisation, that is more than 20% real. These are examples of the implementation of our programme. Of course, within the possible framework of the 2005 rebalancing of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, which I am sure is optimal in this situation, I will therefore support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr. Bevk has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u78	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! The government arrived relatively late with the budget rebalancing in the National Assembly and then tried to force it through the procedure. Without the substantive debate on the balance and on the amendments tabled, work bodies for each area would also be involved. If the government is so slow, it will obviously miss the business deadline for the preparation of the 2006 budget. 155. Article 155 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia states that the Government must submit a draft state budget for the following year by 1 October of the current year at the latest. October 1st is already very close. If we subtract August, the government has only a good two months of time to draw up a budget that will really be itss and from which the priorities of the current coalition will actually be seen. According to my experience since 1996, in nine years, it has not happened that, when we adopt the budget or the budget rebalancing, we encounter as much arrogance as we have witnessed when we adopt the 2005 balance. The ruling coalition convened interested working bodies of the National Assembly before the deadline for the amendment was reached. Some of the working bodies were not even called on. For example, the Committee on Agriculture, which would have a lot to say, whether the Committee for Relations with Slovenians is in place and around the world and so on. The State budget is a fundamental development document, from which the country's policy in various areas is reflected, from economy to social activities. It is therefore essential that individual working bodies, not just the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, be identified or identified before this document. It would be necessary for the Committee on Culture, Education, Health, Agriculture, Defence and so on to be substantively defined up to these specific amendments. Of course, committee presidents in most cases did not want to convene meetings. Then they were forced to. But they did so too early, for all the committees of work had been convened before the deadline for the amendments had expired. Leaving the fate of the rebalancing and individual amendments only to the Committee on Finance and the Finance Minister is a short-term or short-sighted move by the current authorities, thus avoiding substantive discussions on the country's development priorities in different segments. Now I have a specific question for the Minister of Finance and School. At its 91st meeting on 23 September 2004, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia said that the previous government had adopted a decision on the financing of 14 secondary schools in Slovenia under the Basic Development Programmes Act in the field of education and science in the period 2003-2008. Also on the basis of Article 21 of the Law on the implementation of the budget in the years 2004/2005, which allowed the adoption of the programme of these 14 investments also by means of a gradual buy-out financial lease system. Since there have been some reallocations in the country's rebalancing and development plans, I wonder whether the state of investment of these 14 high-school facilities will freeze. The fact is, invitations to tender have been published in the official lists. The new school authorities then took these calls forward. These tenders have been completed. The Commissions discussed the contracts and assessed them. That is why I am interested in the fact that the amendment to the law on the implementation of the 2005 budget does not allow for financial leases anymore, whether the government or the school ministry will lead to final implementation. I would also like to recall what the school minister told me at the presentation of his ministry on 30 November 2004. I quote: "This government will endeavour not to see any radical gap between the two authorities and that we will make sense to continue all the projects, including the investment envisaged by this law." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr. Testen has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u80	Thank you for your word. Honourable Vice-Presidents, Members and Members of Parliament, distinguished Ministers and other members of the Government! For starters, I would like to start where we discussed a lot on the Committee on Finance. We have often encountered comparisons as to whether the comparisons of the previous or the 2005 budget with the proposal for a rebalancing are correct or would be more appropriate compared to the 2004 implementation. I understand the opposition Members that they insisted on a budget where the differences are very large. If we compare the balance with the budget, then we quickly see that the revenue is greater than 63.9 billion. If we reject this budget gap of 70 billion and minus 20 billion, which is a reduced budget deficit, then we can quickly find out that there is no large manoeuvre space and that there may be short-term or fatalities to this account. However, if this same proposal for a rebalancing is compared to reality in 2004, then we find that these figures are much more optimistic. At the same time, however, they are much more realistic. Because the comparison with the proposal or with the previous budget, in my view, is not realistic because some numbers were not actually written. The second thing we've talked about a lot is stopping investments. It was said that the investments in 2004 were significantly lower due to the fact that the finance minister stopped all investments on 8 October. That's what he's holding. But he says he stopped them because there was no money. There's no other explanation. Because if there was any other reason, then at the end of the financial year we should find that we are left with money or anything else. It's not like that either. It is true, however, that some situations or European funds and funds for investments in health care have been used poorly and that investments could be better at the expense of these two accounts. The thing I wanted to mention in particular is the position of the Chamber of Economics towards the budget balance. The Chamber of Commerce has an extremely negative attitude towards the balance sheet. This negative relationship was also summarised by the LDS party. They argue that European funds should not be an integral part of the budget, but should be, as far as I understand them, some kind of upgrade. An upgrade for those who do well and will receive some additional funds. It's unacceptable to me. If the integral part of the budget is expenditure, then there must also be revenue. But I agree with the fact that we're going to have a hard time pumping these funds. This is the task of governments and ministers to do as much as possible to make this budget real at the end of the year. Then, about the congregations. The municipalities have got the most they've received in the last four years. Last time I said they got real more than they did in all four years together. That's right. Moreover, it is true that in 2005 the congregations received no additional burdens or additional responsibilities. I think the congregations can be satisfied with this balance if we accept it. Well, for me, this balance is particularly positive in economic work as well. In economic work mainly because it places great emphasis on small and medium-sized enterprises because it places great emphasis on promotion and investment in tourism. We know that the funds invested in tourism are returning very quickly. We think that this is important and that this is also a great Slovenian opportunity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the general part of the proposal for a budget rebalancing. Before we go to the vote, I ask Members and Members to check the functioning of their voting devices, that the cards are properly inserted, that on the right side the lamp is on fire, because in this case we will be able to make the vote. The vote is under way. Apparently, the voting machines are waiting for those who are missing. We'll vote next time. It is clear that voting devices will work when all Members of Parliament are in the Chamber. We're voting again. The vote is under way. Voting adjourned. I note that of the 59 Members and Members present, 41 votes to 17. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] I note that the general part of the proposal for a budget rebalancing has been adopted. We are moving on to the specific part of the budget rebalancing proposal. Who wants a word? Please, Mr. Barovich. Mr. Battelli. Excuse me!
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u82	Thank you very much. The government is perfectly legitimate, but has decided not to support any amendments to the balance. That is why the mother's working body has also given a negative opinion on the undecided outcome of the vote on the amendment proposed by the Commission for National Communities. However, this amendment is totally indisputable because it has no financial implications on the one hand, and on the other hand it enjoys solidarity and support for those to whom funds are conditional and at least temporarily taken, namely coastal municipalities. The amendment is of paramount importance for the urgent regulation of the situation of the daily press of the Italian national community. For all these reasons, I ask you to support him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mr. Barovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The ones we were together and the ones that weren't with us. The specific part of the budget shall include amendments. The amendments were tabled by opposition parties, which is logical on the one hand. These amendments probably have different content, different meanings and different desires. That was already said today. On behalf of the Slovenian National Party, I would like to say that we have tabled several amendments, in particular those referred to by my distinguished colleague, Mr Happy Friends, concerning, above all, the transport regime and the development of railways. Among the amendments in which I am involved are the amendments of the informal group of Zava members. In doing so, I would like to stress to all colleagues and colleagues, regardless of political colours and positional or opposition affiliation, that we have agreed in agreement that we will not interfere with the budget's balance anywhere where it is not necessary, anywhere where we do not actually have a basis. It means that all the amendments tabled under the heading of the Group of Members are submitted on the basis of all the documentation already obtained, on the basis of the already invested municipal funds. Let's go to health care, traffic, and other areas. So when we consider the amendments that we're going to talk about together, please think about it. That's not coercion, that's not blackmail. These are real needs. This is a desire to complete what has already begun. In total, I can say that all these amendments are very low on behalf of the informal group of Zava members. But that's not what this is about. I understand. For everyone the amount is low, for each materially very important. We will refer to the issue of education, nutrition and, of course, audit committees, which require something on behalf of the State that the state cannot then give. This is a very important emphasis. It is the roofs of schools, the means by which we have already begun to build and build state, I emphasise, state infrastructure, not local or regional. I therefore ask my colleagues and colleagues to be reasonable in their decision-making to read the explanations of all these amendments tabled on behalf of this group of Zavek Members and to decide on their conscience. And once again, I would like to emphasize. We have focused on the need to complete and preserve what we have gathered through all formal legal procedures. Last but not least, I will say that we have decided in the Slovenian National Party that we will be in support, as we expect, but this is perfectly logical and I say honestly and honestly we support all those amendments, because we cannot support others as well as the amendments tabled by the opposition, in which we will see the meaning, clarity and then there will be no misunderstandings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mrs. Uhan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u86	Thank you so much for saying that. A respected government, Members and Members of Parliament. I will limit myself to agriculture, notably to two agricultural items. The first is support for the acquisition of farms from the area of structural measures of agriculture. In 2003, 100 million were planned to fight, for those farmers who would give the farm to their successors, to young farmers. This measure was first issued last year with high criteria for obtaining a ten-year pension if you hand over the farm. However, more than ten candidates, the beneficiaries, appeared on the invitation to tender. However, the money was running out and only 10% of the beneficiaries or slightly less than 20 could get it from the budget. It wouldn't be that bad if those beneficiaries just hung up right away because they wouldn't meet the conditions. However, they complied with the conditions and, at the same time, handed over the farm, legally handed over the farm to the successors. This means that they are now socially and materially at risk. With the proposed rebalancing, with an increase of 600 million, this non-professional approach to similar calls should be corrected and these roles should be resolved in the past year. The second measure, however, is restricted areas under the rural development programme item. I am talking about those areas and farms that last year have emerged according to European criteria in the negotiations. It is 2.5% of Slovenian farms or just over 200,000 hectares of agricultural land. However, these farms have already had this status in the past. It is mainly the karst world, flood areas, hilly areas. I believe our negotiators did not predict that nearly half of Dolenjska and almost half of Styria would fall. Thus, for at least three years for the period 2004 to 2006, these funds from the European Fund are lost. The 250 million from the Slovenian budget, which is now in the balance sheet, is not much. It is a great deal because you have nowhere to go for the Slovenian budget, and the resources mentioned will be only sand in the eyes or will not by any chance compensate for the lost European funds. So for the period 2004 to 2006, we will somehow patch up from the Slovenian budget. With the under-proposed amount, we will only place patches on wounds called abandonment of farming and cultivation of agricultural land in all areas, especially in areas with more difficult production conditions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr. Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u88	Mr President, let me briefly give you something general in the part of the debate that speaks. I hope that later we will follow the amendments and amendments we have proposed in the Liberal Democracy. We have said that with the amendments proposed by the Liberal Democracy, we are primarily trying to correct the bad draft budget. That is why we have been giving money primarily for those things, or we have proposed that this money be given for those things that would tackle, in particular, the reduction of investment expenditure funds, for regional development incentives, and in this way to correct the relatively poor draft budget. Allow me, because I have the floor, to express my regret that the RS government has not answered the questions of a number of Members and Members in the debate on the general part of the budget. This further points to the humiliation of the National Assembly by the RS government. I personally believe that we still have a government that runs economic policy in 2005, which has proposed a budget rebalancing based on the budgetary memorandum adopted by the previous government, today so criticised by the previous coalition. It is a pity that the government, despite all the ministers, has found so much courage in spite of the Prime Minister to answer and answer some of the questions that the National Assembly, and especially the Slovenian public, deserves. Finally, this rebalancing will lead to an increase in the public-financial deficit. As a result of some of the laws we will adopt below, the international methodology will also provide up to nearly 3% of the national budget deficit under the ESA95 methodology, as published on the March 2005 Ministry of Finance website. What am I trying to say? We have a situation in which we will be seen from the outside as a country that no longer controls public finances and with strange proposals without discussion, without confronting the opinions of the coalition and the opposition discussing the most important act. The amendments we have proposed want to give more money to strengthen the Lisbon strategy, to increase jobs and to strengthen everything that has been taken into account in the rebalancing. Investments in public health, including investment in repair of state roads and the acceleration of the highway programme. The government has responded to all of this not by arguing that there is enough money on active employment policy, but by arguing that it is not possible to take the money we are earmarking to strengthen international cooperation in the field of the Slovenian Armed Forces, which probably includes the cost that has been incurred here in the last week by the smiling Minister of Defence. So the situation we're in is, in its own way, very paradoxical. We have a debate that is not a debate, and we have amendments that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia says it thinks nothing of them. He doesn't think they're acceptable. However, they are not acceptable because it is not possible to spend money on the so-called costs of the Slovenian army or anything else. It's a shame we got into this situation. This situation will later be reflected in figures, in declining economic growth and in the ever-increasing deficit of the state budget. It will not be long before they find in Europe that Slovenia has gone beyond the Maastricht criterion. Since 2.7 is very close to 3% of the 2005 state budget and this will also have an appropriate negative response to the thinking whether Slovenia is capable of taking over the euro in 2006. This would be a great damage, but of course every small number when we add it together to make a great use. Consumption, as has been said several times, is historically the largest share of gross domestic product in Slovenia at any time with a proposal for a state budget rebalancing. We hope, Members and Members, that you will be at least a few amendments, at least those supported by your mother's working body. Someone talked today about how this happened, and then the representative of DeSUS also spoke last Thursday. Because these amendments give a little more money for regional development. Money is given for the Italian community. Money for supplementary funds is given to municipalities and some problems are solved on Slovenian state roads. Without debate on the content of individual amendments or if the debate goes in a similar way as it did on the Committee, on the working body or as the Government has replied in writing, it rejects all amendments. Of course, if the debate is just a debate where the argument of power will be used, then of course it would be better to minimise this discussion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mr. Mogue, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u90	President, thank you so much for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Adoption of the budget and approval of amendments or rejection is also a test of truthfulness. During the previous term of office, the current ruling party in the coalition placed in the National Assembly two laws demonstrating that the previous coalition had not been underdeveloped or had no social sense. The first law was that all students in primary school would have a regressive diet. The second law was to provide students with free transportation. They argued that there was enough money in the budget, only there was no will in the coalition. Another claim was that too much was being invested in the work of state authorities. We've been trying to test whether it's true or not. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we have made an amendment that increases resources in the field of regressive nutrition for students and the transport of students to the detriment of the renting of the business premises of the state authorities. And what we have experienced, ladies and gentlemen, when you pointed to us from the other side, the government does not support and neither does the mother's working body. So those words were then just, I'd say I could speak, Mr Vice President. [[...]] Second amendment, including in the field of education. We said, education will be what will bring us progress. We unanimously passed a law establishing a university in Primorska, although we all knew that there were no fundamental conditions for the functioning of such a university. Now that the University of Primorska and the previous budget had sufficient resources to manage the premises, these funds were withdrawn in the budget balance and the university remained dry as a fish without water. We have also tabled an amendment here, but here, look at it, the government doesn't support it, and the mother's working body doesn't support it. So even with this vote and this support, we can say that love is great, as you once said, hair at the end of the tongue, in the middle of the heart, is nothing, is it, Comrade Tanka?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mrs. Zalokar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u92	Thank you so much for saying that. Allow me, colleagues and colleagues to discuss the amendments concerning the supplementary funds of the municipalities. It is true that the balance of the budget has brought some novelty in the financial sense, and in particular additional funds for the municipalities, which I am very much pleased with and I think is a good move. However, some questions remain misplaced and open. And I've done these myself with the drafting of the amendments. First of all, I would mention the issue of supplementary funds in relation to the loss of income coverage in 2005-2006 or until the adoption of a new law on the financing of municipalities. The question is that, in the light of the new income law adopted last year, it was adopted or laid down in the transitional provisions of the law, by which it was regulated that municipalities which would have had and receive lower financial resources should be replaced by such funds before the adoption of the new Law on the Financing of the Communities. Last year, estimates were that there would be over 30 billion tolars. And since income is actually the largest financial income for the municipalities, it would also mean that more than a third of that burden, i.e. that lower tax burden, will fall on the shoulders of the municipalities or that the municipalities will receive less money. In the budget or budget rebalancing, the government has planned and provided funds for this revenue outage, which I estimate or would like to explain by a government representative whether these funds are likely to exist after six months at the moment - whether these funds are sufficient and, in fact, replace the entire revenue outturn to be paid by the municipalities; in particular, this should be known to the self-financing municipalities. [[Back-up advertising.]] Yeah, just the ones, yeah. So the question remains, above all, what are the current financial indicators and how much is planned to fall out, and whether the government has already drawn up appropriate sub-legislative rules, how this deficit will be calculated and how these funds will then be allocated to the municipalities. So, I have tabled this amendment more because I want to hear from representatives of the Ministry of Finance in particular what these figures represent and what they are. The other amendment concerns the question. which, in fact, is already under discussion in Parliament, as a law on amendments to the Social Protection Act has been introduced, namely a family assistant. This change, which also took place last year, brought a lot of problems for the congregations. In fact, it is in some ways a family assistant’s funding, in fact, a bottomless pit. The original law, or original amendment, was designed to deal exclusively with disabled persons with severe physical or mental consequences that need the companion himself to be able to live normally. It has now proved in practice that the case has increased considerably, that it has also started to touch older populations and, of course, there are new and new applications every day that, in fact, family members as well as those who are not related to this beneficiary, are making new and new applications to which they are primarily eligible from the point of view of the elderly. At this point, according to me, the sum originally planned has long been exceeded. The municipalities have already earmarked about 200 million more funds for this than was planned. At the moment, more than 300 new applications waiting for a discharge and resulting in an increase in this cost will go beyond all anticipated size. We have therefore proposed in the law that funds for family helpers should be re-provided by the State and that it would be under the jurisdiction of the State, but the government has not supported this change of law. Nor does the government support the amendment that has been tabled in this regard. Above all, it must be said that as long as it remains as it is now, it will be a latent story that will constantly hang over the congregations. In fact, the more information is being disseminated - because at this point it is clear to us that, in fact, all citizens and citizens do not yet know this right - the greater these obligations will be those that fall entirely on the shoulders of municipalities at the monthly average or minimum wage for which funds must be provided by each municipality. It seems unfair to me that, in fact, some area of lack of nursing hospitals, lack of cities in nursing homes and other things that worsen as a result of the ageing of the population, are passing away without financial coverage solely on the shoulders of the municipalities, which can expect a number of new roles in the coming months. For, after all, it is tempting to make a decision, especially for the unemployed or those who receive lower incomes, in order to actually do so in a way that they care for such a person and therefore receive a minimum wage. So I'm calling for you to reconsider that. In view of the fact that some rights have not so far been on the shoulders of the municipalities, I think it is correct that, as with other similar things, the State retakes the funding of persons with disabilities in particular or that these costs are fully provided to the municipalities by additional means. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr. Soka, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u94	I would like to briefly, because there has been a lot of talk about how the budget is underdeveloped, that the government does not have a hearing to invest in technological development, in promoting the economy, and in this particular work, wanted to draw attention on behalf of New Slovenia to some concrete figures. Science and technological development. For science and technological development, over 44 million Slovenian tolars are planned in the 2005 proposal for the rebalancing, which is 0.68% of the gross social product at the moment. Everyone would like this number to be even higher. But I have to say, given the realisation in 2004, that's 13.1% more. So these arguments that we've been listening to here don't hold true to the fact that there's not enough money to be invested. But I'll say it again. Given our options. The economy. Economic resources are increasing by 57.5% in the proposal for a rebalancing compared to the 2005 budget, increasing the resources to increase competitiveness, then by 60.8% to promote the development of a small economy and by 125.1% to promote tourism and hospitality. So we often talk about Slovenia becoming a country of tourist opportunities. In the area of spatial planning and housing construction, this budget increases by 4.1% according to the budget adopted. In the area of culture, sport and non-governmental organisations, this is an increase of 1.5 billion, which means 3.8% more depending on the budget adopted. A colleague in front of me was talking about local self-government. I think that municipalities receiving financial compensation will make a very positive assessment of this movement and that these more than two billion will be used in those projects in the field of municipalities that are urgently needed. Of course, with these funds, it will also be for the municipalities, and with what will be an additional option, with regard to the commitment that municipalities will be able to compete for the funds of European, structural and cohesion funds. There is a significant increase in justice funding, almost six billion. We've been talking a lot over the past four years about judicial backlogs. In fact, we all insisted that the judiciary was actually one of the fundamental problems. I think that these funds will be used in this direction to actually reduce these backlogs also due to an increase in funds. There has also been a substantial increase in agricultural resources, despite the fact that we are currently hearing about various affairs, as in this segment. But without incentives for agricultural development, it will not work. Funding for the agricultural sector increased by 6.1%, or almost 4.5 billion. My fellow Member spoke earlier about some problems in the field of agriculture. Allow me to add another one that was sent by the previous government in talks with Brussels. It's Natura 2000. So, now that the financial perspective for the period 2007-2013 has not been adopted and, as a result, of course, to a significant extent - this is what is expected and likely to happen - the reduction of rural development funds will be very damaging in Slovenia. In particular, because the Ministry of Environment and Space has simply landed and has also proposed in Brussels, and in Europe this has been welcomed by the fact that as many as one third of Slovenia is in the Natura 2000 area. I think the government will also have to take a thorough look at how to solve this problem. For when this area is in Natura 2000 and is placed on certain limits, it will be necessary to make up for these restrictions with greater subsidies if you want to help those farmers who want to grow in these areas. Or in fact, it will happen that Slovenia will grow rapidly due to such reckless measures in the past that have been taken. Let me also mention transport, transport infrastructure and communications. Here, too, the funds for the entire base increased by 1.6% compared to the 2000 budget. In particular, there is an increase in transport and infrastructure on railways, as well as in subsidies to line bus operators. We've talked about this a lot, too. Surely these subsidies are also one of the aids to young people in education. As if there were no such subsidies for line bus operators, bus connections would have been abolished in many ways, which would have been a major problem for all those school-bound children who had to be transported daily from their place of residence to a nearby school institution. It is true, however, that funds for road infrastructure have decreased slightly. This is especially so because the former government has somehow promised according to what cannot be done. In this regard, let me point out that we have adopted a resolution in the National Assembly on the national programme for the construction of motorways. In accordance with this resolution, it is envisaged that €400 million per year will be spent on the construction of motorways. Before the elections, however, the government, including the then Prime Minister, Mr Rob, offered and promised something completely different, which was written or adopted in a resolution that had been formed for a very long time in the National Assembly. For this reason, there have also been slightly reduced funding, but not less than it was realised in 2004. For the area of motorways they are even slightly increased according to the 2004 realisation. Even with the amendments. In spite of these, we will stop, but in New Slovenia we have decided that these amendments, which have been tabled by the opposition and for which you have also made many arguments, at this point because this is a budget rebalancing because it is not a budget, but a rebalancing and some items are completely new, which we feel is not bad at all, with our Rules of Procedure, because we cannot introduce new budget lines with a rebalance, we will also oppose these amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u95	Thank you for the brief explanation. Mr. Mikolitch, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u96	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Given that we are in the process of amendments, and given that the opposition again somehow substantiates that these amendments would correct the budget's balance. However, given that it is bad for them, I somehow do not understand, given all the 77 amendments that we have considered on the committee, what the arguments have been. There is no way that I can understand that those who propose an amendment to correct the budget do not really realize that if you add something on one item, on the other hand something has to be taken where you think you can take it. There are some amendments here that do not, in fact, comply with Article 30 of the Public Finance Act, given that they interfere with public debt servicing funds. I find these amendments irrelevant. But there's something else I'd like to point out. So those of you who have proposed don't know this at all, or you didn't want to know that this can't be done, at the expense of, we know, and the budget reserves for this general budget reservation, and at the expense of borrowing, you can't increase your income or A balance sheet because it relates to the C balance sheet. Then I think there's a lot on the committee that my colleague, Rezman, has discussed or he's done a calculation. If we take all this into account, we'll take 12 billion from the Ministry of Defense. I don't know. We're in Nate. And all those projects or promises that were before that, the old government, if I were to do this again, the old government, which was said to have to be implemented, is saying that the amendment's candidates would have completely dissolved the Ministry of Defence. That's how it goes. Let's say one such banal example of explanation. Some road for, I think 300 million would have to be given for this road and urgently begin with recovery. Because if it doesn't, there's going to be a summer heat attack. I just can't imagine. Now we're gonna make a decision about this. I think you'll cause it if the road resumes in July. I think that this is a very important plan of development programmes, where from 2006 onwards these urgently needed investments will be included in the budget. I am also aware that there is always too little money in the field of road infrastructure. But it bothered me very much, and I will point out once again that a Member of the whole area of 14, 15 of the ministries of the field has been working on the working body of the mother. Now I don't know if he's an expert on the whole field. I don't think so. That's why sometimes at the session, that long marathon session, there was a little comedy in between, but we survived the night. Personally, I think it is necessary to prepare the additions to these amendments, to take into account the facts, to be realistic and also to make an argumentative excuse for where you took your proposal, where you had to take it, and where you would put it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u97	Thank you very much! Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, we are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendments. You got on the bench. You have before you a review of the amendments of 16.6.2005. There are amendments on 40 pages. At the top is written by the user and we will follow this line. I'll read who the user is. But there may also be one or two amendments. If the user is one and they are one or two, we are discussing it together. We vote on each and every one of them. So then we can just start to move on to, user, first, amendment, Government Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Slovenians in place and around the world. There's only one point. The proposaler is Bevk, the government does not support the amendment, nor does the mother's working body support it. Please, who wants to talk? Mr. Bevk. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u98	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! With the user of the Office of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Slovenians in place and around the world, I propose to increase the support of Slovenians in place and abroad in the budget line Slovenian expatriate queen by 7 million 203 thousand tolars. The fact is that the Slovenian expatriate queen has fulfilled all the conditions laid down by the Slovenian Office for Slovenians in place and around the world when, by a decision of the Government, she voluntarily reduced the funds of the current budget for 2005. Following the 2005 budget adopted, the Slovenian expatriate queen should receive 33 million tolars. The whole item, which was adopted at the end of 2003, included the issue of an emigration magazine, which was worth 48 million tolars. With the increase I propose, it is said that for a good 7 million, the evictive matrix in Slovenia would hardly be able to implement the programme. After this rebalancing, only 21 million tolars are allocated for the activity of the matrix. It is interesting, however, that the funds of the other two organisations of the World Slovenian Congress and Slovenia have increased worldwide compared to the budget adopted, this is some kind of discrimination between the three civil society societies dealing with our displaced people around the world. I would like to say that the Slovenian expatriate mother has submitted to the financier all monthly reports on the funds received in order to reduce the number of employees from four to one and a half workers since September this year. This means that the Slovenian expatriate mother of all three civil society institutions will have the least employees. Unfortunately, the requirement of the Secretary of State, Mr Puksic, to balance the number of employees in societies dealing with Slovenians around the world is also more than met. The queen radically rationalized the material costs. They even cut off cell phones and canceled daily newspapers. The President of the Matrix and members of the Slovenian Emigration Matrix work free of charge. They travel to Ljubljana without any compensation or travel costs. Nor did the budgetary inspector find any major error or breach in the use of budgetary resources, except for the EUR 100 over-expenses paid on official travel, which is in the stage of the disciplinary procedure. The EUR 100 was also the main argument of the State Secretary on the Commission when he tried to explain such a radical reduction in the line that he had actually reduced or realised before the adoption of this balance. For the sake of the cost-effectiveness of some ministers, the entire budget should simply be abolished by Puksic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mrs. Pecanova has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u100	Thank you very much. I believe that the Slovenian expatriate queen is certainly an organisation or a person of private law, which is the most thorough link between all Slovenes in the world. So that at the exit, which the Slovenian expatriate queens are promising us in such a way that more than half of the funds, while the magazine is still coming out and the magazine can happen to be shut down, this extremely wide network connecting Slovenians from north to south and from east to west all over the world will simply fall apart across the entire globe. The effort to re-establish these links is so great that the costs of re-establishing this network will be tenfold or more than tenfold compared to the savings that the country will have in this reduction. I believe that the reduction in the resources of the Slovenian evictive matrix has already begun - because before the preparation of the budget balance, the Secretary of State for Slovenians around the world has begun to radically reduce the funds of the Slovenian evictive matrix - points out clearly that this is a completely political step. I believe that it is precisely in the case of the Slovenians around the world that politics should not actually have any place. I propose that you, colleagues and colleagues support the amendment of colleague Sam Bevk because, despite the fact that the balance increases by 7 million and some, it is still lower than the base amount by more than 10 million than it was in the original budget for 2005. I believe that this needs to be carefully considered. I call on you to support the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to say another word, we are moving on to the decision on amendment number 1, the user of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Slovenians in place and around the world. We're voting. The vote is under way. I take it that of the 66 present for the vote, 21 to 43. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to the second amendment, the user is 1415, the anti-corruption commission. He has two amendments, one and two. Anybody want a word? Since no one wants to discuss it, we are moving on to a decision on the first and second amendments, both of which will be voted on, under point 1. We're voting. I'm calling off the vote. Procedural? [[Back-up advertising.]] I asked, I waited for the vote to be suspended. [[...]] You want to explain your voice? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u102	In the context of my explanation of vote, I would like to say that I will support this amendment, which speaks of 84 million tolars, especially because I believe that Slovenia, by entering the European Union last May, and by taking over the power of the new government or new parties in the government, has not become immune to corruption, which also shows us some events in recent months that it is imperative that the anti-corruption commission operate to have sufficient human resources and material support to carry out its work thoroughly, to explore all the phenomena that are taking place in the area of corruption and to prevent the recurrence of corruption, which is said to have died with the takeover of SDS, SLS, NSI and, in part, DeSUS. Indeed, the period of fighting corruption, the verbal fight against corruption during 2003 and 2004 has not ended with the takingover of power by you, colleagues and colleagues. For this reason, I believe that, just to strengthen your fight against corruption and prevent this corruption from occurring in your own kind, allow the Commission to have at its disposal all possible human resources and also material resources for its work. That's why I support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u103	Thank you very much. So there won't be any further misunderstanding. I asked when we went to the first amendment, who wants a word? And I don't think it's entirely necessary to ask who wants the word that after we start voting, you need to explain your vote. I think we've got 40 pages, and that way we won't come forward. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u104	Thank you very much. I can't support this amendment, but I'll tell you why. In fact, around the anti-corruption commission, the state of Slovenia must not behave as if it were chasing every day of the year. What can happen? We can get into trouble quickly, then walk from solution to solution, and in the end, we don't know which account we could put it on. And I'm sorry if I let anyone go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Anyone else? Mr. Barovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u106	Procedural or procedural question.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u107	Please, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u108	Dear President! I may have overheard, but I'm sorry. Look, let's not do this again. Excuse me, procedural procedural question, short answer. A little longer question. Have we had a general discussion about the second part, so this special work, and now we are just deciding and having the opportunity only to explain our vote, or are we going back to some process where we have a first debate after each amendment and then, I don't know, I don't know? Please let us know about the organization of work. One more time. I'm sorry if I overdid it. But if we have completed the general debate on special work, I understand that we are talking about amendments and there is a possible explanation of vote and end and decision-making, etc. Is it different that we don't fight and hunt and so forth?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u109	We won't fight. Thank you very much. Absolutely not. I'm the only one who thinks it was a general debate. She was, she was, after all these amendments. We move on to each amendment separately. Each person can explain his or her voice or express his or her opinion. That's why I'm going to put it simply. Anyone who wants a word, and when there is no one who wants a word, we will vote. And please, if you will take this into account, for this is a great deal, so that we do not hunt with trifling things. Anyone else want a word? [[No, no, ……]] We are voting on the 1st Amendment under - the Anti-Corruption Commission. We're voting. At 70, 20 votes to 44. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're voting on the second amendment. I'm calling off the vote. Please, Mrs. Pecan.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u110	Unfortunately, the previous amendment has not been adopted, so, of course, I also support the latter, which has been tabled by the Liberal Democracy Club. I'm re-emphasizing. Taking over power did not reduce the risk of corruption, but increased. If I use a very human saying, "The trough remains the same, only some animals around it change." So I would like to point out that the anti-corruption committee is still in need. If we want it to work effectively, it needs to have the staff and all the necessary material resources at its disposal. Ask yourself how many of those who have not reported to the Commission are sitting here in this National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to explain their voice? Procedurally. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u112	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I have to say, I don't agree with the explanation, and I would. I must have heard you wrong, but I think the rules of procedure are a little more precise as to how it runs. It is an amendment, is a debate on the amendment, is the conclusion of the debate, is the beginning of the vote and an explanation of vote. I think that this needs to be defined very precisely because we have 77 amendments, and not just - so I understood you - that if there is a debate there will be, everyone will have a word, but it is necessary to say exactly when is the debate on the amendment, when is the conclusion of the debate and when is just an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u113	Well, I wasn't exactly accurate. I said, I tried to loosen the whole thing up a little bit because I can see it's not running. That is why I will stick to this, and there will be a general debate on each amendment, and before we go to the vote when I say we will vote, I will call on anyone else to explain their vote. So it's gonna be okay. There's only one thing I'm asking you. I'm watching you when someone raises their hand. Look at me when I say we vote and when I press. Not when I press, wait a few seconds and raise your hand. That's what I'm asking. Thank you. Anyone else want to explain their voice? Here you go, Mr. Skull.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u114	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I will support this amendment. But I would like to explain my voice in particular because the first vote has shown some big gap between the debates that we have been leading in the National Assembly for years and where colleagues who are now in power have somehow forgotten that the motto of all debates throughout the years has been that the government underestimates the phenomenon of corruption and that the government does not do everything that it can when it establishes a system of control over possible corruption. Not by giving authority, not by finding the best people, and not by having these people have material opportunities. The situation we're in right now is the other way around. The minimum proposed by the Corruption Commission is being reduced by the government. This means two things, either to assess that there is no longer a danger of corruption, or to avenge himself on those who sit on the corruption committee and could step on their fingers. I think that this reduction in resources in this case is one of the manoeuvres of this retaliation that the SDS is taking in all areas and that it is essentially valid to go over the old grievances that may be directed by your leader and to support a corruption commission that works in the common interest, not in the interest of the opposition or anyone individually.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mrs. Lovtišar Bebler has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u116	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I'll support this amendment myself. I am convinced that the purpose of the Government's proposal is to make this Commission weak, to take energy and to achieve the objectives it has set. And it seems to me that this government proposal means that she spoke with a fig in her pocket when she spoke about trying to prevent corruption in our society. Because, of course, if there is not enough resources, this commission will sooner or later become a human resource weak, and the priorities will have to be set differently, and ultimately it will be less effective. I support this amendment and will also be supported by members of the LDS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mr. Milan Petek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u118	Thank you, President. Now I haven't heard what it looks like. I am alone among those who support this amendment. I have been among those who have experienced total negation and degradation, i.e. the reputation and importance of this office, this service, because we have heard on the Finance Committee that without any discussion with the Office the government has reduced their budgetary planned revenue by 21 million. If the office itself has agreed to a reduction of 60 million, it is incomprehensible how the government intervened in an informal organization and reduced it by an additional 21 million. In fact, she took that step, as colleagues told me before me that she wanted to disable her good work. So at the meeting of the Finance Committee, we have heard how many tasks there are actually before this office, which we in this House have given him in the previous reference, they cannot actually carry out these duties today, because they cannot even strengthen themselves with these available resources, nor can they take advantage of the hours they could use to process this data. In fact, we put a loop around their necks, causing the office not to carry out the task entrusted to them by law. I suggest you consider this amendment. Think about not interfering with the matter that I think you sometimes, when you were in the opposition, stressed it yourself, talking about corruption, talking about customerism yourself. Today, in fact, you want to reject these words yourself.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to explain their voice? Yes, Mr. Lakhovnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u120	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Members! I will also support the amendments mentioned above, especially because these 21 million tolars mean a lot to the Anti-Corruption Office. We could say that it is a small step for the state budget and a big step towards combating corruption. It's a simple fact. Whether we want to face the fact that corruption exists in all societies and whether we do not want to fight actively. That is why I was very disappointed when the government, on its own initiative, took away the Anti-Corruption Office of 2 1 million tolars. The car doesn't work without the fuel. Without adequate funding, this office cannot function properly. I wonder what this is all about. Why was this done? I will support this amendment myself. Those, as I said, 21 million tolars, which do not mean much from the point of view of the state budget. They do, however, mean from the point of view of the anti-corruption office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u122	Thank you very much. So it will not look like the former position, the current opposition, has become the chief guardian of corruption in this country. We in New Slovenia will not support this amendment. But it's about Parisianism on two levels. First of all, you suggest we take it to the Department of Defense. Despite the fact that Slovenia here has certain requirements for the NATO Union. So that's the first thing that's unacceptable. On the second occasion, about an hour or two ago, you pointed out to the government that it was mainly spending on wages. So now you're coming, without arguing why 179 million or 180 million tolars are needed for this office to increase by 21 million. And that's for pay. So you say one thing, you do the other, and you think the third. So this suggests that these efforts are not really sincere. First you report that wages are increasing and then you come with such amendments yourself. Colleagues of the opposition, I have already said in the introduction that you will have to have a little harder, more real arguments if you want to defend such amendments and show us as if we, I don't know, now if this amendment refuses to be us for corruption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Mr. Squeakle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u124	The amendment is just an example of why the budget was subject to discussion for more than five hours. We have suspended the meeting of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy in order for President Drago Kos to explain why he needs more money. This, however, is what it says, Mr Head of the Parliamentary Group, on page 410 of the rapporteur. More money is needed to hire 20 employees from five officials because they need to process more than 4,000 state-of-the-art reports. However, if you do not want these state-of-the-art reports to be processed, to be examined and to be able to respond to more than 4000 state-of-the-art reports at the same time to the functioning of more than 3000 public institutions and other indirect and direct budgetary users, then there is no help for you. The story of the anti-corruption commission is another story. This is a story that is defined in the Public Finance Act and that is that it is a non-governmental budgetary user. Therefore, in addition to the Government's proposal, we also have a proposal from the Commission, published in the Rapporteur on page 411. Mr. Drago Kos spoke about this. The main question of Parliament as budgetary authority is whether, when deciding on the draft budget, it will follow that non-governmental budgetary users are independent, independent, or powerful, simply prevent the Commission from operating. That is why I will be alone and my colleagues will support this amendment. If you are in favour of preventing corruption in Slovenia, then you would be satisfied and given enough money to enable people on this committee to also carry out a property survey. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Mr. Gantar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u126	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, my friend! I'll support this amendment. It is quite clear in the explanations that without the financial resources provided for by the amendment, this office will not be able to do its work. That is why I support this amendment, but at the same time I support it in order to respond to those who, before the elections, had a full mouth of accusations of corruption, but now that they are in power alone, are actually preventing the work of the authorities involved. Such duplicity must be answered by supporting such an amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u127	Thank you. Mr. Capuder, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u128	Thank you. My colleague Sok made a mistake earlier when he discussed how he would explain his vote in this amendment. The funds are increasing not by 20 million, but by 80 million, 84 million, I apologize. [[....]] [[The ad from the bench.]] I read correctly, we're talking about another amendment. [[...]] [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] I'm talking about the second amendment. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u129	Mr. Capuder, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u130	Yeah, they don't let me talk.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u131	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u132	I will not support this amendment because it seems to me that in this way, when we associate resources, we often only abuse the municipal councilmen who had to make some predictions and the vast majority of them have virtually nothing to do with any corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Mr. Han has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u134	Thank you so much for saying that. I would only correct Mr Sok so that these funds are not taken from defence, but are taken from the implementation of protocol events. That's why I'd rather support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Mrs. Zalockar's explanation of vote, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u136	We are talking about the second amendment and, above all, I would like to point out that I am in favour of this amendment mainly because it is taking measures to implement protocol events. I think we've been witnessing a lot of totally irrational spending on this segment lately. So I don't think that these 21 million, as far as this is supposed to go down, will know as much about renting private planes as it does about emptying hotel refrigerators at the expense of the state budget and staying at state costs in the most luxurious hotels. I think that 21 million would be better loaded at this point and it would be necessary for them to be charged with a commission to prevent corruption, as it will obviously be necessary to explore corruption on this segment. It's not just property that's coming or coming in for the first time this year.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Mr. Contic.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u138	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. We're actually talking about the first amendment. We voted on the first amendment and rejected it. Just so you don't get upset when we warn you that you're talking about the wrong amendment. I will support the amendment mainly for the reason that we are increasing the power of this Commission with this amendment or that we are allowing this Commission to actually do the work for which it was appointed. This was stipulated by law. Now that we are talking about whether it is right to review the reports submitted by municipal councillors and saints or not, there is no time for adoption of amendments. But there was a time when we were getting married. Moreover, I am convinced that when we adopted the law and decided that the congregational councillors and the saints would report that we had made the right decision. I am convinced that the work of this commission, and probably also in the future, proves that our decision was then wise and right. It is right that this commission also controls officials in the local community, not only mayors, but also saints and saints. So I'm going to support the amendment. This is the 21 million that we are actually taking in an area that is not that important, and it will be possible to prevent any additional luxury from the representatives of the executive branch. At this point, where my or my colleagues in the LDS anticipate spending, this is certainly justified.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u140	Just one sentence. I owe you an explanation, just to explain. We've got double material, so I replaced my friend Squeak. The first and second amendments, not because you're protesting that I can't explain. That's it.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Mr. Squeakle, you've raised your hand before. I think I need to ask you again if you want a word, because then you left. I'll be careful. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u142	Look, I just wanted you to clearly tell us where we are, because the two New Slovenia Members were wrong, but it's no accident. Many Members were also in the course of the debate, and the Minister did not know exactly what amendment we were in. By proposing that we go to the exact side where the amendment is, so that Members do not talk about non-working amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u143	Any Member who discusses shall be responsible for himself. I noticed that, but there were many explanations in the debate in explanation of vote from all sides. Let us, therefore, take a little more time together on the basis of this amendment. Please, let's move on. I'd like to ask nicely. We vote if there is no more. We vote on this amendment under point 2. The vote is under way. 69 Members were present, with 28 votes against 41. [[The vote was 28. (against 41.)]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. Let's move on. User of the Nationality Office of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Applicant for a delegation of the Italian and Hungarian national communities. The government doesn't support it, the mother's working body doesn't support it. I'm opening a debate on this amendment. Who wants a word? Mr Battelli, Mr Slavinec and Mrs Pecanova. All right, let's go,
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u144	Thank you very much. I've talked about this amendment before. Of course I'll back him up. This amendment, I repeat, enjoys the support of the coastal communities, the Nationality Office itself, and is substantively indisputable because it takes funds, transfers funds within the same programme. In short, I ask you to support him as I will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Mr. Slavinec has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u146	Thank you so much for saying that. I will definitely support this amendment, because I come from an area that is ethnically mixed. Although this specific amendment is not about Hungarian nationality, I also suggest that the others support it. Even more so, because in this way we will also get a very good leverage and we will be an example to neighbouring countries, but national policy towards Slovenian minorities is not in any way implemented in the way that this is the case in Slovenia, as ours would deserve. The above-mentioned area is highlighted, mainly because of the fact that 5,000 Slovenians are officially declared to be 3,000 and if the active policy towards our minorities abroad does not continue, a minority can, in general, stop within one generation. I'm sorry about that. It is also an example of Koroška, where this will last, hopefully, for more than one generation, but we certainly need to lead an active policy in this area. We will support the amendment alone and also the LDS House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Mrs. Pecan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u148	Thank you very much. This amendment is clear evidence that local self-government, municipalities that are partly responsible for the development and realization of the rights of the self-government national community, work hand in hand with national communities. However, this amendment is designed to take money in the budget and also in the budget balance where it is already committed to the realization of the rights of the national community. It is simply not clear to me how it is possible for the parent committee and the government to oppose such an amendment, where it is a completely autonomous and negotiated decision of the coastal national community of Italy and of these three Istrian municipalities, which exercise a large part of the rights of nationality, both from the state budget and from their own budgets. I must say that I find it quite insurmountable that even when it comes to agreements between those who exercise these rights, the government intervenes and says, no, and you will not do so, because we have the will and the decision. Here I must say that the government has far crossed the limits of its powers and also its rights and should simply say, decide for yourself, as you know and know. We have decided, and I believe that the National Assembly and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia should follow this agreement between the three Istrian municipalities and the coastal self-government community of the Italians. There's a thing that has certain boundaries, and no one else has the right to get in here in the middle, like just those who are directly involved. The means for the realization of national rights in these municipalities are also provided in the balance sheet, it is said that if we move this money from one cup to another, the state budget is not affected and I see no reason for the government to oppose it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Mrs. Possonec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u150	Thank you very much. I'll support the amendment, of course. It is because the National Community Commission has unanimously supported this amendment. Therefore, Members who deal with national policy more than others consider it necessary to support it. And I ask, where does this Commission then have its influence and why it is necessary if the Commission's conclusions are being voted on everywhere.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Mr. President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u152	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. The SLS Group will support this amendment. While this raises a few questions after Mrs Pečanova's previous opinion. In fact, I'm wondering why we're even voting if we are, so I understand you, I shouldn't care about any reallocations. But that's what I was gonna say. Of course, the adoption of this amendment, one such way of financing this means the basis for the budget in the coming years. Such a way of redistributing funds or giving up municipalities to make a part of the funds for a specific purpose. That's how we understand this amendment and support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Mr. Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u154	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I will support this amendment. I explain and want to explain my voice, not the decision of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, as a colleague of Breda Pecan. I don't have those powers. Maybe she's already in the government. I know how the Hungarian National Community lives. In a way, I am sorry that the Hungarian National Community will not actually have any part of this amendment. However, I welcome this from the Italian national community. I contend that the Republic of Slovenia is well or very well cared for by its two minority national communities. If the local communities agree with this, which we will now decide on, then once again, I support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u155	Thank you very much. It's a replica. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u156	That I'd be rational, both of my colleagues at once.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u157	Could you please? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u158	It wasn't an explanation for the voice. There was a debate, if I understood correctly. Please, my friend, listen to the president. I listened attentively and said, "I'm starting a debate on the amendment, this and this." [[...]] [[Exactly.]] And that's why I'm replicating. [[...]] First of all, the National Assembly must vote on this. Because we're talking about the budget rebalancing. It's just that, unfortunately, we have such a system that it's decided by the National Assembly. This, however, was an agreement between the congregations that are being taken up with this amendment and given to the Italian national community with which the congregations have agreed, which is a fact. For this reason, I believe that an automatic national assembly and government could confirm this amendment. Secondly, I would like to say that if I are talking about yes, and not if the Italian national community and the municipalities in our area agree on something, of course I wish the Hungarian national community had something to do with it. However, municipalities in an area where the bilingual area of the Hungarian national community is concerned must agree to renounce and give something to the Hungarian national community. So the door's open. It's over now, but for the second year, it's all possible, Mr. Horvat. Goodbye.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Skull, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u160	Look, I think it's worth listening to this amendment myself. If this is precisely the agreement that the representatives of the Italian national community can look forward to, in fact - hand-to-heart - an agreement has been forced because of the tribulation in which the Italian national community is located. Why am I saying this is a forced agreement? The forced agreement is simply because the Nationality Office of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is unable to respond to the needs of the Italian national community, nor - could it be said - to the many needs of the Hungarian national community. Within this debate, which we had on those parts of the budget, which are concerned with funding through various laws of minority rights, it turned out that virtually a large majority of the officials who participated in that meeting did not even know why she had come to the meeting and did not even know how to redistribute the money. So, I'll say, the scandalous presence of officials is, in fact, rare. The officials from the Ministry of Education simply said that they had come because they had to go because they had no material and they couldn't help us make decisions. This Director of the Nationality Office, who should have had a review of the situation, was simply not because, as a rule, he was ill when the Commission met. So that his deputy or envoy - that no one would drag me by my tongue - did not know how money would be spent. If it is precisely the point of redistribution of money at the time of the rebalancing, I will say, confirm these desired and necessary changes for precisely defined purposes. This particular content that we are talking about is, I will say, a happy circumstance that, I will say, a Member from this national community, I will say that I will say the cultural sphere of this national community and the municipalities on the coast understand this need to consolidate the position of this newspaper that we are talking about here and that this money is simply provided for this. It is therefore totally incomprehensible that it is arrogantly opposed to this in the parent’s working body and later to the government’s position. I have opened this debate here because what our longtime colleague Mrs Pozsonec is sometimes saying may be more understandable when she wonders what the purpose of this Commission is, which is actually the only one that monitors rights in all areas, but at the same time there is no possibility of implementing certain things. "Acceptable" is, I think it's understandable in the notes that this is difficult to enforce a visa, for example, the resources of the General Staff, which we have listened to before. But when it comes to the visa of these funds that are actually touching, I'll say, that pile of money from which the different rights of the national community are being fed is no longer understandable, but I'll say worryingly. Whether it's arrogant or not, you'll be able to judge experts more precisely for yourself. Certainly means what is happening on this committee, something that I myself consider to be a major breakthrough between the stated policy and the concrete decisions, and what we see as a huge gap between what we have heard in President Janš's speech, which has been in this matter, I must say with promise. He's devoted to the minority, I'll say, more than that courteous kindness. I'm afraid that's getting lost. Minority groups are once again left to move in various ways to survive. This solution also means that somewhere in one part of their rights something will be reduced in order for one important segment to come to life. If they could come to this on their own, I see no reason not to be supported by the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Mr. Bajc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u162	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Introductoryly, let me say that I will support this amendment. I would like to tell my colleague, Školč, that the Committee on Finance did not have the same arrogance as it did. There was a six-to-six vote with 13 members of the committee. Another thing I'd like to say. I don't think there's any automaticity in accepting the budget's balance sheet. But at least we have to press the keys. So that this automation, that the local communities, the coastal communities, have agreed to redistribute this money from an item intended for the Italian national community on the coast, but we will be able to confirm this at the time of the budget rebalancing. Why didn't I vote on the Finance Board? Am I one of those 13 who abstained, colleague Brad Pecanov? Because of the fact that I saw in the material that was transmitted to us, by the Commission for National Communities, then Mrs Possonchev's writing as a representative of the Hungarian National Community and the statements made by two mayors and one mayor, saying that they expected these funds to be received next year. And because of this, let's take a look at the material and let's look at the last sentence in the report of the parent working body, which is called the Commission for the National Community. Mrs. Pecanova, read the back of this report. The last sentence reads, with local communities expecting the money returned in the 2006 budget. And that's why I abstained from voting on my mother's working body.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u163	Thank you. Mr. Skull Replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u164	Look, all the votes when 12 people vote, but it can't be any different than 7 to support a minority in order not to ignore it. Whether supported by 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, 1 or nothing, is, I'll say, in the end the same. You'll probably agree with me on that. From this second point of view, 13 people abstained, or if you want out of 25, if 12 voted. You said 13 of them abstained. It means, I'll say, it's just as worrying a fact. In the end, only whether or not it is accepted shall count. There's a balance to be made this year. If you deal with this problem with as much sensitivity as you now speak, it will certainly not be difficult to provide funds for officials and for this newspaper in the coming year. Unless you understand that this is the extreme limit of funds that the newspaper spends once, and the second limit is the official. I hope that's not the case.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u165	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Members, I must say that we will support this amendment and I think it is the same. We are committed to respect the rights and, of course, the needs of minorities. Because it is small money and because the agreement is from where it will be taken, there is no problem and no problem at all to realize it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Anyone else? No, no, no. We're voting. I'm guessing 68 were present when the decision was made, for 66, against no one. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the amendment of the delegation of the Italian and Hungarian National Communities and the Commissions for the National Communities has been adopted. Let's move on. User of the Service of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for European Affairs. Speaker of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. The government doesn't support it, the mother's working body doesn't support it. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u167	Thank you very much. The amendment is proposed because the Government, despite the fact that the document we adopted in this National Assembly in March and discussed on all working bodies, is called the Declaration on Guidelines for the Functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the Institutions of the European Union, is not a government with a proposal for a budget rebalancing or a tolar proposal for the operation of the Assistance Centre to bring any funds closer to the European Union. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia considers, in principle, that Slovenia could be some kind of stepping stone for the countries of South-Eastern Europe when entering the European Union. But she's not ready to give it a tolar. I wanted to ask the Minister of Foreign Affairs three times at the meeting of the National Assembly about this centre, but the Minister for Foreign Affairs has not been to the meeting of the National Assembly on questions sent three times. That is why, of course, this is the last chance to add something to the action at the 2005 rebalancing. By doing so, we add something to the words that we have spoken a lot about in recent weeks. I propose that you support the amendment so that Slovenia, together with other countries, can draw on more than €700 million in pre-accession funds to be allocated to countries with a European perspective. If Slovenia itself does not offer something for this, it will be excluded from these programmes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u168	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this amendment? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to decision-making. Anybody want to explain their voice? I guess not. There's a vote coming up. Of the 57 present, 21 to 35. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 35.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to the next amendment, a user of the government service of the Republic of Slovenia for local self-government and regional policy. The drafter shall be the parliamentary group of Social Democrats. The government does not support, the mother's working body supports. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Slavinac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u169	Thank you so much for saying that. So, as well as colleagues, we will certainly support this amendment, as it is a very important resource for direct regional incentives. Why is it so important that these are direct regional incentives? This is because, in terms of ensuring more coherent regional development, the incentives are divided into both direct and indirect. The fact is that the less developed regions to which these incentives are intended are highly uncompetitive in obtaining indirect regional incentives, as their absorption capacity is lower, and because of their dislocation and economic development itself, they are less successful compared to the more developed regions. This fact also shows that out of the 12 regions, the least developed one receives just one dozen of these incentives. Therefore, by increasing the level of direct regional incentives, we will achieve a clearer follow-up to the objectives of more coherent regional development, which will certainly not only be for the benefit of those regions for which they are intended, but for the whole of Slovenia, because, finally, Slovenia's development is crucial to the equitable development of those who, at the moment, are not following or lagging behind on average or most developed. That is why I propose to all, and especially to Members coming from those areas outside the centres, from those who know this issue better enough to support this amendment, because it is a relatively small resource, which can be so much more crucial and represents a much better investment, as it provides even more added value and new jobs in these regions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u171	Procedural!
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u172	Procedurally. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u173	Mr Vice-President, see, I would like to propose that such an important issue - but this is a government service for structural policy and regional development - be asked by the Minister to comment on something. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia still has 59 minutes and 59 seconds, as it says up there, so it spent one second in the debate. At the end of the day, we are discussing whether, with the support of his mother's working body, he will receive 136 million money in addition. I think that would be right. However, if the government has decided to remain silent, then we should make a correspondence meeting of the National Assembly because it makes no sense, the coalition is silent, the government is silent. So the opposition is here talking. By suggesting, President, that you call the government and tell them once again that they have 59 minutes and that they can say something. Especially if you could get up to 136 million. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u174	Thank you very much. I don't think I need to be called. But that everyone who is present has the right to come forward if necessary. Let's keep it that way. Please! Any other discussers, please? The debate is open on this amendment. No, no, no. We're moving to the vote. Anybody want to explain their voice? I guess not. We're voting. 58 Members present, 19 votes against 39. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 39.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We're moving on to the next amendment. User of the Ministry of Finance. Speaker of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. The government doesn't support it. The mother's working body doesn't support it. I'm opening a debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u175	Mr. Squeakle, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u176	Mr. Vice President, good afternoon. On the Committee on Finance, it was found that nothing was needed because the Minister of Finance said that a revision of the so-called single treasury system and the main treasury book was being carried out. We expected either the government or the coalition to propose an amendment. No one did that. So we expect at least the reply of the Minister of Finance whether the funds that are defined in view of the fact that the Minister has ordered the revision of these activities are necessary at all. We would expect the Minister's response in accordance with Rule 235 of the Rules of Procedure. So that, Mr Vice-President, if you can ensure the presence of the Minister of Finance to answer the question raised. A revision of the single treasury system is under way. Is there any need for funds at all?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u177	Thank you very much. I'm afraid I don't have that power. The minister's here or not. We can express our desire to be. Anyone else? Okay. I take it there's no more debate. Then we move to a vote on this amendment. Does anyone want to explain his voice either on behalf of the parliamentary group or in his own name? I guess not. We're voting. Thank you very much. I note that 54 Members and Members were present, 17 votes against 37. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 37.]] We have thus concluded the debate and decision-making on this amendment. We are moving on to the so-called sub-programme of supplementary funds to the municipalities, which is the proposal for the first amendment by the Member of the Cveta Zalokar Orazem. This amendment does not support, nor does it support the parent's working body. The second amendment is proposed by the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. Again, I find that the mother's working body and the government do not support this amendment either. I apologize. In this second case, the mother labour body supports the amendment. I'm opening a debate on both amendments. Yes, Madam Ambassador, the Flowers of Zalokar Orzam. The word is yours.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u178	Thank you very much. I'm not going to explain these two amendments again. But I want to ask you again. And obviously Parliament is no longer a place to get answers, but not just us Members and Members of Parliament, but also the Slovenian public. I ask again about the first amendment. How much is the loss of financial resources due to the Income Act, which should in some way be reimbursed to the municipalities in accordance with the transitional provisions of that Law? How much are these funds that should be returned? This answer lasts for 28 Slovene municipalities. I hope that now the Minister is calling the Ministry and asking how much and what calculations are in the Ministry on this issue. I don't think it's appropriate that we don't actually get an answer to any of this. It's all over. Nobody gets that. I don't remember anything like that being in Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Anybody else want some? Yes, Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u180	Thank you very much. I think you, colleague Zalokar Orazem, have received an answer to this proposal. So this is a very attractive amendment to increase the funds for municipalities by an additional 5.7 billion Slovenian tolars. So you need five minutes to write an amendment like that and then sell it as good market goods. The Ministry has done its best. The government has already increased funds to municipalities by means of a rebalancing process. What the previous governments have not done for four years was imposed on the congregations. And where did you get it? But you took it where it couldn't be taken. So, interest on domestic debt. You know very well that you can't just reduce this item. I don't know. And you guys explain how it's supposed to go. From which source would you then pay what you owe yourself just as your government. That's a very strange suggestion. This isn't serious. Now to expect answers to such frivolous amendments, I'm sorry, because then, if you answer that, you'd be dumber than the one who wrote it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Again, Mrs. Cveta Zalokar Orazem. Then I see that Mr Minister has also applied for the debate. Mr Minister [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u182	Obviously, we've been listening and hearing very badly in Parliament lately. I have sincerely said in explanation and in the general debate on the amendment that I have tabled this amendment only because I want to get information on what the calculations are like at this point in terms of the income shortfall for self-financing municipalities. I admit that this amendment was not written to be applied, but I want to hear this number. We can't hear this number, and no one in this country seems to be able to calculate it. At that time, when it was calculated under that former bad government, it was 9 billion. Therefore, I now ask: Has it fallen and where is the starting point for 3 billion and a half sufficient to meet the legal obligations related to this failure?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u183	Thank you. Dr. Gaber has made a procedural call. Then Mr. Minister spoke, and then Mrs. Pecanova. Mr. Gaber, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u184	Mr Vice-President, I would like to draw your attention to this, because the discussions of the last days in this House have been sensitized that the honourable fellow Member did not have to declare a colleague of Orazmovo a fool long ago. I understand that people say what they want. You said that if you were to discuss this and deal with these amendments, you would be even more stupid than the ones they proposed. All those who know how to conclude and all those who coerce a fundamental culture of discussion know that this is once again a debate below the level that this Parliament can afford. Dear colleague Sok! I would really like to ask you and all of us together, especially the President of the National Assembly, to have discussions with the leaders of the parliamentary groups and with the people who intend to spend another three and a half years in this National Assembly and to agree with them on how to communicate here. Don't think anyone else thinks anything about anyone else. However, because we are human, we abstain and do not speak as inappropriately as some here do. It is difficult for me to expect Mr Sok to be able to apologize for what he has said.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u185	Thank you, Dr. Gaber. I am the first to advocate cultural, ethical and moral dialogue. But also mutual replicas and name-calling don't contribute to this, because then we start spinning around in a vicious circle. Mr Brenčič was first and then Mr Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u186	Thank you very much. In terms of procedure, I will say that I am deeply disturbed by severe disqualifications. But, Mr. Gaber, a little while ago, I felt so miserable when your colleague called me a coward. So let us keep the same vat here, and let us not only restrain ourselves when the interest of an environment is affected, but nothing when the interest of another environment is affected. You know exactly what I'm talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u187	I would, look, there are no replicas of procedure at all, and it is also fast in this sense that we continue the debate on the amendment that we are talking about. Mr. Sok, is the replica on procedural because you're not here or on? There's no procedural replication of the rules of procedure. Look, let's go back to the amendment. We're like that in the beginning. That's good. Mr. Sok, I give you my word, but please, for a moment.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u188	Look, if you're giving a word to Mr. Squeak for every little thing, then you're gonna have to give me a word as well. Well, it's true, we're practically in Parliament. I would just, Mr. Gaber, say that if you're sensitive to words, then always be sensitive. If you'll listen, Comrade Gaber, I can tell you when you were Minister, you came back and you were fellow Members of the Tisovchevs at the time, you said she was laughing stupidly. And today you're sensitive to that. I repeat what I said. I said if we were to respond to such amendments, we'd be dumber than the one who wrote it. My colleague admitted that she wrote it so she didn't mean it. That's what she said. Here I myself heard your colleague Majdo Shirca discussing some bluntness when it came to the law on dust particles in the Mežíska Valley. She appointed Members to be top-notch and so on. So if you're sensitive to such things, always be. Even when your colleagues use such words, not just at certain times. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u189	Thank you. So let's go back to the amendment. Does anyone else want to discuss it before we vote or before we explain our vote? I'm sorry, Mr. Minister, and then Mrs. Pecanova. Excuse me! There were so many replicas while I looked away.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u190	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In this proposal, the budget balance creates a new account, which is called the coverage of income shortfalls, for 3 billion 400. The Government and the Ministry of Finance estimate that these are the necessary funds to cover the deficit to municipalities that are self-financing. With regard to the additional question of the Member of Parliament on general work. We expect that if this rebalancing is adopted, the 20th month will begin to pay off according to normal procedures that may be more familiar to you in your daily life, because you are the Mayor's own lady than I have not yet signed such things. But that would be normal if this balance were to be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u191	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mrs. Pecanova is still on, and then Mr. Squeakle. This time I will dare to give my word first to Mrs Pecan and then procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u192	I would just like to say that when we had a discussion on these amendments, not on the budget lines, on the Committee on Budgetary Control and Public Finance, as an interested working body, the lady from the Ministry of Finance assured me that I had a little personal discussion with her as a mayor to provide me with information on what is now the picture for the municipality of Izola regarding the shortfall in revenue flows. The fact is, what colleague Zalokar Orazem said is true. In the initial calculation based on the reduction or increase in the threshold from which the income is further calculated, the calculation was that it would only fall into this account in the municipalities of 9 billion 100. That is why this proposal is an amendment. No executive argument was given, as far as I know, either on the parental committee or on the committee. Data, specifically for Isola, although I would be interested in all the municipalities that are fed only from their own revenues to their budgets and there was no balancing, there was no such data. Every man working on the implementation of municipal budgets, just like the mayors and like the financiers on municipal administrations. With arguments you can just say, so the current forecasts are such that income from income is higher than was planned at the time of adoption of the law. I stress that these calculations were made at the time of the adoption of the law. I'm talking about the Income Act. So if we put such arguments on the table, no one would make any amendments. Why? If this money is provided through revenue inflows, which are due to, I do not know what reasons the inflows are increasing more than theoretically reduced by the increase in the threshold from which the income is charged further. Please! I think you've come to these numbers in some way. Tell them! I don't think you can hide things like that from the National Assembly. There are quite a few mayors here. Although I do know that those mayors of those municipalities who have a settlement, you don't really care. However, I warn you, dear fellow mayors here in the National Assembly, that, as long as the funds are available to compensate for underweight headship, this can still hit us hard. More of you who have a balance than of us who finance ourselves. I'm warning you and I'm telling you that the total result of the budget rebalancing is minus 400 million, not plus any billion. When we add up the increase in the income account and when we add, sorry, there are two billion plus, because a billion 400 is less in the balance sheet and three billion 400 more in the provision of this coverage is going to go away until there's been a change in the community funding law. But I have to say that it seems to me that, as we have heard a lot about nebulosis today, I think it is still the biggest nebulosis in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. I'd like to say this before I give you my word. One of the most common words in today's debate is procedural. I think it's appropriate for me to read Article 69. Procedurally means a procedural question when a Member or a Member wishes to draw attention to the application of the Rules of Procedure. That is why I would like this warning not to be abstract, but to point out the rules of procedure, exactly which article was violated. Mag. Squeakle, it's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u194	Thank you. I would like to say procedurally that, in accordance with all the articles setting out the procedure for preparing the budget balance, the Minister of Finance, I wish to correct it, has misspoke. No new account is in place because the account is known, other ongoing domestic transfers. However, a new programme, supplementary funds to the municipalities and under this programme, is being introduced. This is a procedural correction by the Minister of Finance. Don't think we're making up new economic classifications. And second. However, it is procedural that the National Assembly has the right to obtain an answer to the question raised at one of the evening meetings when deciding whether there is enough 3.4 billion here, and we have not received an answer to it. It would be correct for the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to present this question by two Members and, of course, Members of the Liberal Democracy at the committee's own meeting. This 615th page of the Rapporteur does not speak enough. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u195	Thank you very much. As I understand it, your comment is more of a debate than a procedural one, but the Minister of Finance has already raised his hand. Mr. Secretary, would you like a word?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u196	Just an explanation that this figure of 3 billion 400 is an assessment of the Ministry of Finance's professional services on the basis of the data we have so far. It is fully in line with what was supposed to be a 9 billion income shortfall, of which it then belongs to 3 billion and a half municipalities in self-financing. So, that's it. However, as regards the specific request made by the Member at the meeting of the Commission, the expert services have already received this request. They're actually working on it. However, we do not have a final account on the basis of all the congregations. That means some sort of arrangement. This allocation has not yet been completed. When we have this, we'll intervene. Otherwise, there are 3 billion 400 for the whole group. However, there are no specific congregations. I still don't believe we've broken any. Otherwise, as soon as we have this information, we will also convey it to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Mrs. Cveta Zalokar Orzam. The word is yours.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u198	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister of Finance. I think we got the answer in principle. That these calculations are and that the funds should be sufficient in the view of the Ministry to cover this shortfall. I ask, however, given that there is another amendment of the Minister for Social Affairs, Mr Drobnic. Given that the Government does not support the amendments concerning the family assistant and that the government does not support changes in the law, from which the state would take over fully in what way, in what way it considers and how it will work with local communities on this issue, which at this time represents one of the biggest substantive problems faced by local communities, the most unpredictable segment that actually increases daily in all environments? How will we and how will we deal with this issue in the future, given that I do not have the answer so far, what is the government's position on this, given that it does not support any changes to the law, nor does it provide additional resources, but in some way leaves it to the local communities? But the thing is, within a few months, it can actually bring many municipalities, regardless of all the financial effects that we expect from the rebalancing, but to very unpleasant financial situations.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Mr Mikolić also took part in the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u200	Thank you very much. I must say that it bothers me again because my colleague, Mr Cwickl, is explaining certain things about the income or the payment of funds to the municipalities. You know, or I don't want to or don't know why congregations that finance themselves would have some privileges. You know, by 28 February next year, a bill is being made. If someone gets too much in the form of financial compensation, it's rejected. If he's got too little, he only gets it then. That means it's not until next year. With regard to this income, which is now being discussed here, one part - at least I believe so - concerns the 2006 budget. Please, dear fellows, I know you're concerned, but I think it would be very good to wish that the next draw of the lotteau, which will be in your congregation on Sunday. Then you will receive each congregation with at least 10 or 20 million. Which we who are on a financial balance don't get, even if we have some lucky guy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Mrs. Pechanova.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u202	I have to say, this is a bit of a joke lately. I always say that I want to win in Isola, or what it is that you do down there, fight yes, or the main win on the lot of anyone who has a permanent residence in Isola. Because then it means that that 15% tax on gambling profits would come to Isolo. Which isn't much money. Do you know that 15% of the 400 million is 60 million. It's not just 15 or 20 million. Despite the fact that these congregations, which we finance ourselves, are said to be very rich, every tolar is not just every million extremely welcome. Unfortunately, there's never been a major win in Isol. I hope it is now. But it's a joke. Now I really want to say something. Colleagues who are mayors should be aware that the law on the financing of municipalities is related to the law on income. Here I stress, read what it says about income and in the transitional provisions of the Law amending the Income Act, which introduced a reduction in revenue flows to the state budget and indirectly a 35% share of municipalities. That these two marriages do wrong to all the congregations together. However, you need to understand that when citizens, not because citizens finance the operation of the congregation for joint tasks with their contributions of such and different ones, it is unfair to say that those municipalities that are financed by ourselves should wait until February next year and equalize them with alignment. The Income Act is effective: from month to month after calculation, congregations who do not receive compensation, the difference between what they would otherwise receive under the old law, and what they now receive under the new law. Every month, it's in transitional provisions. At the time, I think that those mayors who were in the previous term in the National Assembly, who were then the opposition, were happy to vote in favour of these transitional provisions. Guaranteed! I do not believe that any mayor of the opposition, or of the then ruling coalition, has been against these supplements against these transitional provisions. Because it's not about hurting anyone. None of those congregations that are being compensated have lost anything. Solidarity must ensure the state budget, not the municipal budgets. Thus, according to your logic, those who do not receive compensation should put all that is above the proper consumption into a basket and share it; as two brothers share a pile of excrement, they say, then everything is guaranteed equally divided. When we share something good with each other, there's one for you, one for me, one for me, one for me, one for me, one for the third, isn't there? That's the kind of sharing we know. By proposing that we save the funding of municipalities for a law on the financing of municipalities, which unfortunately changes again in only one smaller segment. The essence of funding municipalities that would provide for a substantial number of municipalities with autonomy and autonomy in financing, which is the sin of this law, the first law and any law that has dealt with the financing of municipalities so far. Of the 193 congregations, it is not right that there are only 29 who are financing themselves. It's not right! It would be right to have more than half of the municipalities, and that is also what the European Charter on Local Self-Government would require of that country. Only we, of course, stick to the European Charter when it is in the best interest of the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Mr. Friday, Milan, there will be no mistake.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u204	The coalition doesn't sound like that, so there can be no mistake. President, first of all, I ask, because I am in a dilemma, can we now be at the second point of this type of amendment, i.e. in the case of complementary means, are we still at 1st point alone and solely?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u205	The debate is on both amendments and we will vote separately and also explain the votes.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u206	Okay, so I'm going on with my thinking. So I am at the second amendment concerning supplementary funds for a family assistant. I am sure that each of us sitting here in the National Assembly has one of our own congregations, and in one of the congregations is a resident. Some of these are mayors, some are just citizens or citizens. And if we had an interest in asking some of their mayors what difficulties they have in financing certain obligations imposed by different laws, we would find that financing a family assistant is one of the major problems. And so if you don't want to understand that these municipalities are simply no longer able to provide these funds for the financing of the assistant, I think that, with a solution such as an amendment of a transitional nature, I think, at least a transitional decision, because sooner or later, I think the Ministry of Labour will realize that it has to draw up a system law to cover this, so that this year, if this amendment were to be adopted, it would allow these municipalities to operate normally. Because there are other problems in some congregations besides these funds. I think it's in everyone, so it's financing housing subsidies. I don't know how you're following this. In the municipality of Maribor, we have 110 million in this year's budget for non-profit housing subsidies, not for non-profit housing subsidies. Instead of investing, we have to cover the country's obligations because of this obligation. By the logic of the matter, this social category should be covered by the state. If you have forgotten those who are only citizens, you are probably still fully aware that the country, by amending or constitutionally interpreting the building land compensation law, has changed the way in which certain energy investments are raised and introduced concessions, which significantly reduced the revenue sources in the municipality. Well, you're only adding up those three settings. You will therefore be able to identify those who are not mayors, what problems municipalities have in meeting these obligations. The purpose of this amendment was to provide these 660 million during this year alone during the transitional period, in order to allocate funds according to the criteria for the use of these funds, not by any other criteria, nor by appropriate consumption or income, etc., but by the criterion of consumption. This would help the congregations to cope with these problems. That is why our client has tabled this amendment and therefore expects that at least those who are mayors, or those who understand the problems of the mayors of some municipalities, will be supported by this amendment because it will not have a fatal impact on this budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Mr. Stebbe.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u208	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, my colleague. I didn't mean to come out because we've been spending too much time. We're just delaying the rebalancing. We should talk about the next two budgets. I also volunteered to let my opposition colleagues know and separate Fridays, when we had a new insult in terms of not answering, because we know which Friday he raised his hand. That's pretty much what I'd call an intelligent insult to me. But I wanted to say that it is not the point now, how many congregations will receive, or how we will rescue help at home. The former government, or former system of things, simply acted by burdening the congregations with enormous amounts. I submit that social obligations have increased by 100% at least and in the area of, say, financing of culture, librarianism, etc. Nebulosis is coming from here. Here are 100 million dollars and billions of dollars in large congregations. The most guilty of me and even of European irregularity is Trofen's formula, which is, for example, in the case of some municipalities. When you are on the verge of this formula, which does not reflect the actual problems of the congregation in terms of solidarity aid, then they are endowed with not receiving the so-called appropriate spending, which is again difficult to understand to anyone you explain to and in fact some financial compensation for the aid. This aid, even if it does come, is then used unintentionally. The greatest shortfall that the congregations received occurred in an indirect way. By adopting regulations and laws completely contrary to the Constitution, which states that any additional burden must be borne by an additional source. These issues have not actually been discussed. I expect that these amendments will be adopted quickly and effectively and that work will begin to change legislation in terms of the normal functioning of the country. But even more so is the failure of non-active institutions that have simply become accustomed not to act. Instead of having less income, it should be more from the source of income payments, contributions if the tax administration and that part of the country simply strictly demanded documented transactions and all accounts. In previous periods, things have simply been taken in the direction that essentially the obligations of the community, especially in the field of social and education, have increased enormously. Somehow the municipalities have now come to a level as a country that only maybe 15% to 20% of the budget resources of those real, reliable budgetary resources are available for investment. That's what it's made of, essentially not enough.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Mr. Janc, then Mrs. Cvetka Zalokar Orzam.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u210	Thank you very much, Chairman. The amendment, which is very political and, I would say, every Slovene municipality very much likes every mayor of the left or right. I have also taken quite a step in this matter myself, that this matter has been in preparation for six months, when we have, in my view, understood the government that it is difficult to correct some of the complications of the past, when they have merely imposed obligations on these municipalities, without financial support. That's definitely it. That's proven. This is said by all the mayors who come from any congregation, whether by balancing or without it. That's definitely it. This blow, which also hit the Slovenian municipalities, so-called family assistant, must have hit a lot of the congregation hard as a negative item. That's true. That's true. That's what I talked to the minister about. I've talked to many about these things, how and how to solve them, and I've received clear assurances from the minister that this story will be settled by law. I believe that with the new 2006 state budget, which will also be locally linked, this story will not be arranged so that one congregation will not strike strongly out and the other does not. That this will somehow be balanced, which is not now. I believe him, and that's why I have some oral arrangements to keep it that way. I believe we're going to deal with this big problem. This is, for some congregations, quite a provision that they had not even planned and would have to prepare the rebalans according to these headings. Some have already gone this way in 50 million amounts through 2005 this item, which was previously perhaps five, ten million. In short, here are some things, assurances that I've been given, six, seven. The budget for this to resolve is somehow giving me no support for this amendment now and I will demand that it be addressed by the new Social Protection Act, as the Minister has promised. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u211	Thank you very much. Mrs. Zalokar Orzam.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u212	Thank you so much for saying that. I thank my colleague Janz for saying this, because instead of answering, the minister went out when I asked him how he intended to solve the problem. A big problem facing the local community of family helpers. By thanking a fellow who obviously believes in words, and from now on I will believe those words, or at least hope that this will be a solution. Otherwise, all the amendments are political, not just this one. All amendments and the budget are political, so don't qualify with this just an amendment. Others are, I don't know, human or not. But I would like to explain this to my colleague about the first amendment. Where was the reason why when we adopted the law on the income of transitional provisions, when we decided and considered to cover the loss of income, I would stress once again, pending the preparation of the new law on the financing of municipalities? The reason was that the existing law on the financing of municipalities, in addition to many others, as said by the colleague of Pecan's unimaginable, unfair, bad solutions, also has a solution that says that municipalities that are self-financed by the state for investment receive only 10% of the funding. Other municipalities receive up to 70% for all investments co-financed by the State. This means up to a billion of the funds that one municipality receives for such an investment, such as one primary school. As long as this injustice is, in my opinion, incorporated into the Law on the Financing of the Communities, it is right that those municipalities that are self-financing receive back those funds that have been created in their area, because they are punished in some way, I say, by only getting up to 10% for their investments.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u213	Thank you very much. At the same time, I'm asking for a little more peace in the hall. Would anyone else like to discuss it? The discussion is under way on both amendments under the sub-programme supplementary funds to the municipalities. The first was proposed by Mrs Zalokar Orazem Cvetka and the second proposed by the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. So we're discussing both. There's no more debate. I therefore propose that we vote on the amendment to this sub-programme proposed by Mrs Zalokar Orazem. Does anyone want to explain their vote about this amendment? I'm guessing there's no one. We're voting. Thank you very much. I note that 68 Members and Members were present. 21 votes against 45. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 45.]] The amendment was not accepted. We are voting on the second amendment proposed by the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. As it is said, the government does not support him, the mother's working body supports him. Anyone want to explain their vote before the vote? [[Nobody.]] We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 43. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 43.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We continue with the amendments. Now it's the user's turn for the Ministry of Defense. Here we have an amendment concerning two sub-programmes, namely scientific research activities in the defence field and technological development in the defence field. The amendment was tabled by the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia and is not supported by the government, nor by the parent's working body. Dr. Gaber signed up for the debate. The word is yours.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u214	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Allow me to say that I do not believe that this Parliament could accept this amendment at this time. I'd like to say why we put him in. A very lively debate took place in Slovenia at the time of its entry into NATO, first of all, whether we should enter or not, and at the same time a debate similar to the debate in the European Union began. In fact, we have a debate on what kind of armed forces we should have. And all of us who have had the opportunity to participate in this debate know that there are at least two reasons why we are investing in technological development in the field of defence. One is elemental, defensive. European armed forces are known to be virtually incompatible with the Americans, to be unusable in large part, if I say gravely; to any serious military operation where they are supposed to work with Americans, we are not qualified. If they are supposed to be, then there is a debate in the European Union on how to increase funds for technological development, to invest in research and the developmental part of the defence forces. The second reason is that there is a certain degree of transfer between the technology to which military research takes place for civilian purposes. This also benefits society as a whole. Slovenia took this instrument seriously in the 2004 budget last year and a decent sum of money was devoted to research and development within the Ministry of Defence. And the idea was that this sum would increase from year to year. We both wanted to follow those benefits. It seems to me, Mr Minister, that it has deviated too quickly from this concept. I think without seriously considering what this means for Slovenia. Slovenia, together with Europe, was very close at the last European meeting to accept for a long-term completely unacceptable budget of the European Union. Fortunately, I will say what is here and today, this budget has not been adopted. Paradoxically, Blair was able to prevent a very harmful budget for the European Union. Such an indevelopment budget is difficult to imagine when Europe believes that it should compete with America and Asia. In the long term, this is probably a burial of the idea that Europe would really be strong. Slovenia has gone to this European Union to participate in this. If I am to participate in this, my colleague Zupan will know very well, then he will have to increase funds for research and development. Last year in 2004, as in 2003, this Parliament took a decision on a proposal from the then government on a significant increase in funds for this area, not only in the portfolio of respected counterpart Zupan, but also within the Department of Defence and Economics. I understand that we will not achieve anything important in this area this year. However, I ask that we keep in mind and not come back with such transfers. Here almost 2 billion tolars were taken with one hand and transferred to other programs that are significantly less developmental than the one that was written here. There is no need to say that I will vote alone and also our plenipotentiary group. That's why we put him in. But we're not talking about any particular client business. We are discussing the priorities of this country, which should be shared regardless of who is in position and who is in opposition. The real decline in development funds in that solid part of development, and this is the fact of this balance, is harmful for all of us. It is also harmful for those who believe that there are a whole bunch of other priorities. I believe too, and I don't envy a ministerial team that has to coordinate on priority. I know it's one thing to talk about what your priority is going to be when you're in the opposition and the other when you have to know how to draw the total and tell me where you really want to go. I also understand that today there is no spirit or hearing talk about how we will have free meals in schools, how we will have free transportation, how there will be no tuition and so on. Of course not, today you ladies and gentlemen are in a position to do this, a year ago you said you would, but at least try to develop. Don't give us a hard time. I'm talking about Slovenia. I hope that Europe will adopt a budget that is more European for the benefit of Europe than for the whole, more development-oriented. I also count that Slovenia will be able to match this with such moves.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u215	Thank you very much. Mr. Barovich, then Minister Dr. Zupan.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u216	Thank you very much. As you can see, we show by our actions that we agree mainly with all the amendments that are either developmental or oriented towards fulfilling the tasks. I wouldn't have picked up in this case. In the Slovenian National Party, we support all, scientific research activity, technological development, development promotion and competitiveness. However, I cannot agree with the words we have heard that the British Prime Minister has made a smart move. Because, for the first time, I don't like to hear this word because it has nothing to do with our budget at least directly, and I agree with a colleague who said we have to be, we have to go on, we have to rely on our resources, which means we should not look at it. Because, on the other hand, even if we agreed to the allegations, I do not think they are so insignificant as we have heard, but rather with the position of the United Kingdom on their rout and their view of the development of the European budget. I think that the balance of our budget is about supporting technological development activities in all areas. No matter what or how Blair acts. I have to say that Blair is obviously looking at their rebate, otherwise they would be the biggest net payers. God knows what would happen next. So we will support all development trends. However, I would not like to hear a comparison of the various decisions now, because if not, we could start to state what the Dutch have said or what the French have said.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u217	Thank you very much. Mr Erjavec has the floor first, and then Mr. Minister Zupan. Mr. Erjavec, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u218	Thank you for your word, President. Dear Members and Members! I must say that I did not understand one part of Mr Gabra's discussion. I don't know what he was talking about. From his debate, I was able to understand that he did not know the defence issues because he was mainly talking about the defence forces in the EU that were still being formed. However, he probably forgot that Slovenia had left for NATO at that time. At a time when you were in the government or when your client led the government that the government had accepted certain obligations at that time. This is the so-called Washington Commitment, where we have committed ourselves to earmarking by 2008 2% of the gross domestic product for defence expenditure, by adopting, even after years of dynamism, in these Washington commitments that your government has adopted. This percentage is expected to be 1.71, but due to the rebalancing, this percentage will be 1.67%). Let me say that it is on this very path, which you are very clear to me, that I have explained to the Secretary-General that this reduction would have no effect on us to fulfill what your government then promised, because I, as Minister of Defence, want to be a credible representative of this country, unless the then government has accepted all these commitments with a fig in its pocket. If I speak further about this dynamic, let me say that 2006 this share should be 1.78 and 2007 should be 1.87. Let me also say that certain programmes adopted by this National Assembly during the time of the then government, namely the resolution on the long-term programme and the development of the Slovenian army, are then the medium-term programme for the equipment and development of the Slovenian army. These are the documents that were adopted in this National Assembly. With regard to technological development, let me say that we have reduced the funds on this item in the balance sheet, because last year's realisation of billions was earmarked for this area, for this programme the realisation of 258 million. As a result of such a low realization, we have assessed, and even when we have looked at this year's possibility of achieving this realization - for this year's year a billion and four hundred, it is estimated that it will be possible to realize 982 million, to the extent that officials at the Ministry of Defence, for which I am indeed responsible, to spit nicely in the hands and to wrap up my sleeves. I think you've opened up a subject without need, because even if this money were meant to be, this realization would not be made because of the situation in the Ministry, which you know better than I do.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u219	Thank you. Dr. Gaber's replica or the debate? If it's a debate, then I'd like to give the floor first to Minister Dr. Zupan, then to you and then to Mrs. Pecan.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u220	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, Mr President! The problems we had in drawing up the balance are probably common knowledge, so I wouldn't explain. I would like to explain the frameworks in which we have worked and where we have been working, or our thinking, because I think it is important that we know the thinking that we know where we will then work or support certain development points. The main starting point for our work, namely, the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology, was the fact that spending, so that the realisation in 2004 was 89 billion 600 million and that the budget was, that is, the one that was prescribed for 2005 - 89 billion 900 million, which means that there were only 400 million differences, that is 0.4%. 0.4% was increased, and in this tribulation, when we had the option to stay on the same number at school or at technology, we made this reflection. First of all, we in education, taking into account all the agreements between school directors and the commitments by regulation, we have provided universities with the share that has been paid to them under the agreement. So that 6% and that, of course, we needed another 4 billion and we also got them, so the actual budget was on the university side, so on the tertiary side, it went from 51 billion to 54 billion, that is, the whole three billion, and then we watched how to work in technological promotion. This was the main occupation of the entire work, how to equip the technological stimulus with money. Well, here we need to know that we need to take into account all the money in the technological promotion budget. It's money from the economy and technology. And if we look at that, then in 2004, spending or realization in 2004 was just over 4 billion, to be exact, 4 billion 600 million. But the plan was 5 billion 146. In fact, however, that obstacle or the cessation of payment in October resulted in only 3 billion, 100, or 2 billion, being spent on technological incentives. And, of course, this was a challenge for us when we planned after the new year. In fact, it was said that the pressure would be about 2 billion, and it would have to be serviced in some way. Then we followed January, February, March, April, May, in fact, when these restrictions were released, what was used. And it turns out there was virtually no use at all, and we came up with a figure of 3 billion 100. And here we have seen that in fact this absorption capacity was in a sense saturated and we've just looked at, for that, we've given, for these additional calls, it's said, those shares that will come into payment for the September tenders, and together we've raised 5 billion 600 thousand. So this is about half-and-half, and the economy is our ministry. And in fact, what's going on in this way, of course, we consciously decided that these shares, which will be financed in 2005, will be financed from September, October, November or October, November, that is, because it is only for two or three months, six times or five times what we will require next year. And next year this will become a commitment and will increase in this part of the technological obligation so that there will be a real big increase. However, the fact that this dynamic did not indicate growth and demand for all these institutions and businesses in the first half of the year, we did this analysis and decided what we could do most. Of course, it is also true that in certain projects, for example, the project was for 4 billion, which was already assessed excellently in the previous year, but it did not come through because it was simply 3 billion seats on the tender. So here were these dilemmas. One was, as it is called, a poor realization in the first quarter of the year, on the basis of which we made dynamics and planned them, and we will perform them. Of course, if we had more money, we'd do more. However, this implementation of this project has led us to fulfil our obligations in the last third of the year and thus to make for the next year the one we need. This was our strategy in this part of the budget implementation. But, please, once again, we must not just look at parts of these technological incentives, but we must look at the whole. And the whole increase was, if we look at 2004, from 4 billion 594 million to 5 billion 657 million. That's basically on item 504. That's what you're saying all the time is that it's a reduction, and actually it's an increase. Once again, it is not just an increase that everyone wants, but I agree with it, but the dynamics and the assimilation capacity of the economy show that this is tolerated in this case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u221	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mrs Breda Pecan has the floor and then Dr. Lakhovnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u222	I would just like to explain some of the things that I heard earlier from the Minister's mouth. The fact is that it was that government, our government, Mr Minister, also yours, and that the decision, Mr Erjavec, is not you, Mr Minister. I raised my hand far before you spoke. And one more thing, Minister Erjavec, that government did not decide, and this national assembly did not directly decide to enter NATO, but we had a referendum, think. This was not decided by the coalition, but was decided by citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, and the referendum succeeded, although at least one of the coalition parties did not have much enthusiasm for this membership. So please be careful, and when you want to face the mistakes of the past government, do not forget, Mr Minister, that you were still in this government, not only as a client, but also as a personal employee of the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u223	Thank you very much. He signed up for Dr. Gaber's word earlier and then Dr. Lakhovnik, if I saw it correctly. But before that, Mr. Erjavec has a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u224	I hope you haven't heard from my debate that I have anything against Nate or I don't know what, or the decisions of the then government, the national assembly, and the Slovenes and the Slovenians, who, by referendum, freely confirmed this. I just said that with the entry into NATO we have taken up certain obligations and I said these obligations very precisely by 2008. This is said to be the target of 2% of the gross domestic product for defence purposes. Let me say that in these amendments proposed by the LDS and partly by the Social Democrats, where some 20 billion are to be taken away from the defence system. That's one-fifth of this budget. And I wonder how we can then be credible, if that really happened, to those of us who just decided to get involved. That's what you say, to Nate. That was my question. But there's no question about the decisions.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u225	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Please, no such remarks. And it's Dr. Gaber's turn. The word is yours.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u226	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Look, Mr. Minister Erjavec. I don't deal with your travels. I haven't mentioned them. I'm not interested in you. I was talking about the budget, and you were explaining to me that if you had implemented the amendment I was talking about, I don't know if you'd been able to look at it in order to drop the share of the funds in defense. I hope you're not telling me this because it's a reallocation within your department. More precisely, returning the money back to the item from which you took these funds and decided to redistribute the priorities within the defence system. You have decided not to go into technological development within this system, so that you will do otherwise. And these are legitimate, from your point of view, legitimate decisions. I don't think they're wise. And respectable fellow Zupan, what happened was simply that the tormented figure, even in that field for technological development, suddenly imploded. I am not surprised if the realization of last year - and this in question shows that realisation is not as much a viable budget planning system as some are trying to explain to us today - is low, as we all know that the call was made late last year and that before the science and technological research machinery was launched, it was not possible to expect a crazy reality in 2004, but a person expects a greater realization and a person would expect new calls in this area in 2005 and therefore also an item. I hope that it will not happen to you that you will simply be disbursed of some resources in this area. Otherwise, my dear fellow, I, unlike some, do not think that I am a defence specialist. However, I have had the honour of working on the European Constitution, sitting in a group that has dealt specifically with this issue among others, and I do not need your specific lessons on the level of development of European defence forces, and I know that there is a lot of sympathetic tension here at work, including in relation to our great partner and competitor, to the United States, even in relation to NATO. So my discussion went in one very specific direction. Let us invest in technological development if we are to be with this world that we have entered, not to be in the back yard of a country that will be interested only in what they will give it, but we will be able to collect ourselves there in the game as much as possible. Everything else is for me secondary, travel, non-travel - as someone dearly desired, more expensive, more expensive - than anyone else would like; entry into the country according to the law would seem meaningful.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u227	Thank you very much. General observation. Let us try to limit the debate to amendments, not to the people behind these amendments. Dr. Lakhovnik, now it's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u228	Thank you very much. The amendment is aimed at making more resources for science and technological development within the Ministry of Defence, and I will support the amendment itself. I am, of course, surprised by the statement made by the Minister, who, at the debate on this amendment, claimed that we know the situation in the Ministry better than he does. I can assure you that this is not the case, of course, if he is at war with his own department, if he is at war with the people around him, it is his own problem; I find this arrogant claim which he has put in here at this substantive amendment. Therefore, I ask that, before the next substantive debate, he settles the situation with the Ministry, starts with the first man, puts him in line if not, the Prime Minister will have to do it instead. Maybe you can ask him who ran your department for four years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u229	Anyone else? I note that there are no more debates and debaters, so we are moving on to a vote on this amendment and calling for explanations of vote. So, I find that no one. Mag. Squeak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u230	Thank you very much. I will support this amendment on my behalf because it is one of those amendments that is trying to fix a bad budget. I recall the previous ministers, especially the previous minister, who tried to link the economy and the sector with great pain and, of course, to explain how many major positive effects can result from the integration of the economy with the defence sector. And I regret that the Minister of Defence is, in some ways, explaining today that because of the poor reality, the rights of spending can simply be reduced. Mr Minister, this is the case, this budget is spending rights. On the basis of this budget, you may or may not attend the call for proposals. Now you've reduced this amount of funds yourself. I understand that this happened to you in a different discussion in Primorska when you were committed to reducing your programmes with a supportive decision of the government. However, Mr Minister, I hope that, at least when the 2006/07 budget is being prepared, you will return to what has been set up in the area of defence and the integration of defence and science and technological development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u231	Thank you. Again, I'm asking if anyone wants to explain their voice before my hand reaches out to this screen, which the Mag has already warned us about. Clavora. I guess not. Well, we're voting. Thank you. There were 65 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 44. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 44.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We continue with the user of the Ministry of Economy. We have two sub-programmes, programmes to promote technological development of the economy and programmes to increase competitiveness, one amendment tabled by the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club. The government does not support it, nor does it support its mother's working body. Who would like to discuss this amendment with regard to the content of this amendment? I almost can't believe it, but nobody. So, we vote and I invite you to explain my vote first. Dr. Lakhovnik, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u232	Thank you very much. I will support this amendment myself because this increases the means for technological development. It should be stressed that in all the key development programmes of the budget, investments and development incentives to the economy are declining. In total amounts and percentages, this decrease is revealed by the expected increased inflows from the European Structural Funds, which should actually be an increase in investment in development rather than a replacement of own development funds. This can also be justified by the fact that for technological development programmes where 7 and a half billion tolars have been allocated, these funds are now falling to only 3 billion, of which 2 billion are expected to flow from the European Union to invest in the innovation environment, which, of course, means the abolition of the measure to promote technological investments planned at 2.1 billion from balance sheet A and at an additional 2 billion from the B balance sheet. Some other programmes have also been completely abolished. It is therefore essential for me to support this amendment, because I believe that this will increase the innovation and capacity of Slovenian companies for technological development, which we all want to achieve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u233	Thank you. He would also like to explain Mrs Pecan's voice and then Mr Germić.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u234	I will support this amendment because they are constantly coming from the economy to warn us that our science is developing strongly in the direction of the development of basic research, while applied research is said to those who promote technological development and the competitiveness of our economy, which allow innovation, especially young experts, to be implemented where we really need it most; that this rebalancing simply does not take into account the needs of the economy to introduce applied research that would very quickly and qualitatively increase the competitiveness of our economy, while at the same time it could be possible to open up a large number of jobs that are technologically highly demanding on such development programmes, research programmes. Thus, jobs that provide jobs for young people, not only for professionals with higher education or university education, but also for young technical staff who are missing. That's why I'm going to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u235	Thank you very much. Mr. Germich.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u236	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. So the revised Lisbon strategy has set itself three fundamental objectives: competitiveness, growth and employment. Incentives, i.e. additional means to enable investments in new technologies, in new products, are one of the fundamental conditions for meeting all three basic objectives of the Lisbon Strategy. The financial perspective and the discussion relating to the financial perspective means that Europe is in no way taking this important mental step from the past to the future. For in the area of competitiveness for growth and employment, we see that resources are falling drastically in line with the Commission's initial proposal. Therefore, of course, it seems to me that an extremely important message that Slovenia could give here is an essential strengthening of this area, so that the introduction of new technologies, to innovation in the economy, is aimed at significantly more resources. A substantial number of funds, which will of course mean a new law. We have the first economic development indicators in the early part of this year, which do not speak in favour of an increase in economic growth. It would be very important for us to be able to do this here. And, of course, I will support this amendment, because I am convinced that the Slovenian industry, the Slovenian economy and all the employees in it would receive an important signal that the Republic of Slovenia is paying important attention to this area, which is crucial to the well-being of all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u237	Thank you very much. Anyone else? I guess not. We're voting. There were 60 Members and Members present, with 15 votes against 45. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 45.]] Which means that for the first time the phones have to be turned off, and for the second time, the amendment has not been adopted. We're moving to the next subroutine, mine closing programs. By the way, we're on page seven, and there's 33 in front of us, so much to encourage. Under this sub-programme, we have two amendments, the first proposed by Mr Sam Bevk, the government does not support it, nor does the mother's working body. The other was submitted by the same Member, and it is also true that neither the Government nor the mother's labour body supports him. Mr. Bevk, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u238	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! The closing works in the Idrija mine, which should end at the end of 2006, are seriously threatened. In the 2005 budget and proposal for a rebalancing programme for the closure of the Idrija mine and the Mežice mine, some less than 600 million tolars were provided, or 31% less than in 2004. For the most part, 203 million tolars have been reduced in terms of closing the Idrija mine. To the extent that the declining trend on these items is further reduced, works will need to be carried out in the Idrija mercury mine and the deployment of waiting miners. These measures, however, would significantly encourage and extend the closure programme and endanger the safety of the city of Idria and its inhabitants. Following Idria's operational programme of the mercury mine, it would be necessary to provide an additional 163 million dollars for normal work for 2005 without investment in the export machinery. However, the revised programme states that it will also be necessary to obtain a new export machine. The planned export machine would replace the 1906 machine; I repeat, from 1906, it is said that next year this export machine will celebrate its 100-year-old jubilee and, of course, this machine no longer has permission to transport people. Even after 2006, when the mine is actually closed, it is essential that the export machine be used for both human transport and material to the third horizon, since the mine will only be flooded to the third horizon to a depth of 145 metres and will continue to have to pump water and maintain underground trenches. Due to the relatively small depth and low frequency of transport, it is necessary to obtain a smaller export machine that operates on the principle of lift. This purchase value is estimated at about 400 million tolars. Regrettably, even in the 2004 budget, which it has adopted to say that our government, or in the 2005 proposal for a rebalancing, does not have the means to purchase an export machine. The Supervisory Board has addressed this issue several times and has adopted a position that the Idria mine closure programme cannot be completed without the acquisition of a new export machine, so I have proposed that for 2005 the mine closure item should be increased by 200 million dollars and the remaining resources could be provided by the Government in the 2006 budget. Together, therefore, there is an increase of 363 million tolar in the closure of the mercury mine, at least as the programme speaks, the long-term closure programme adopted by various governments, and is now constantly being reduced by both governments and governments. I'd like to explain another amendment I've just tabled. Indeed, it is the so-called mining damage that Idrija has been receiving since 1996 from the country. This mining damage is determined on the basis of the laboratory, an assessment of the damage caused by mining in the Idrija mine in 1992 and is an integral part of the completion of the long-term programme to prevent the consequences of mining in the Idrija mercury mine for the period 1996-2006. The fact is that 95 million tolars were foreseen for the 2005 programme described above. The previous government has reduced this item to 75 million tolars, and this time the government is rebalancing this amount to 27 million tolars, which has been the lowest item ever since 1996, when the state is paying mining damage in Idrija. Of course, the people of Idria will fill this out well, but today the members of the coalition can correct the bad entry of governments and vote in favour of my amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u239	Thank you very much. Mrs. Roach.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u240	I must say that today is so very democratic, because everything shows that no government is very good when it comes to specific cases, such as local self-government. So far, I have to say that no government in my life has been good to local self-government, even the one before 1991, so that no one can do a trick. Decentralisation is a concept that no government, no matter what it is, doesn't even want to hear it. The same applies to the closure of mines. Those who have any business with this activity in Slovenia know that a whole series of mines are closing down - and the relationship to these mines in closing any government is quite mačehovski. Here I would just say that it's not the difference in systems, but it's equality in relation to individual problems. I believe that the Idrija mercury mine has given this country and its inhabitants, its workers, so much so that at least a decent way of closing and a decent level of funding for this closure must be ensured. The fact is that the Idrians have invested a great deal of their own knowledge and innovation in closing their mine, that the structural changes that have taken place over the past 15 years are so large that the social problems in Idrija are not actually themselves. It is only a matter of ensuring the safety of the people living in Idria over this mine and its trenches, and, above all, at the very least, preserve for our craft the wealth of the past, which is 500 years and more in and out of these trenches. I think that all those who, I hope, have all been in Idria, all those who were or were in Idria, can say that the inhabitants are exemplary in caring for what they are able to care for, I speak mainly materially, financially. Therefore, it would be correct to actually press "for" here to help the Idrians gradually complete the closure of their mine - theirs and ours - I stress.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u241	Thank you. Anyone else want to discuss this amendment? I guess not. Let's go to the vote. But before that, I would like to ask you to explain my voice. Mr. Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u242	Thank you very much. Like all the amendments that have been tabled by the opposition, but not because of the opposition, I will absolutely support this with the warning that it was one of the mines that a country once exploited; it was exploiting spaces, exploiting people and then rejecting and closing them up because of such or other changes. I know he has some more, like the other mines, stocks, but that's how it is, and I think that it's necessary and sufficient to know that it's necessary, and that it's necessary to know, that the first phase of closure and recovery of the consequences is necessary for those who have used these mines to do so. For it is the turn of the Grasshoppers; unfortunately, the great coals will be turned before long. This is simply a consequence of the events and life in this country, which was exploited, nature was conceived, just as a human leg could be conceived, a hand. That's if you look at yourself like you're talking about meat. And it wasn't just because of the Idrians, because of the Zasavcites, because of the Velenjs, it was for the good of a great country in which we lived together. And society is bound to pay back what it took. Therefore, from this point of view, I think it is right for such and similar amendments to be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u243	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to explain their voice? We first vote on the first amendment tabled by Mr Bevk. If not, we vote. I note that there were 56 Members and Members present, 15 votes against 41. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it that Mr Bevik's first amendment has not been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the second amendment. The debate has already been held. Anybody want to explain their voice? [[Nobody.]] We're voting. I note that 53 Members and Members were present, 14 votes in favour and 38 votes in favour. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it this amendment has not been adopted either. The sub-programme for social protection and compensation for the restructuring of production is next. In this context, we have only one amendment, which has also been tabled by Mr Bevk. Mr. Bevk, your word. In the meantime, I should like to inform Members and Members that both the Government and the parent working body of this amendment do not support them. Mr. Bevk, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u244	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! In September 1996, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a law prohibiting the production and transport of asbestos products and on the provision of funds for the restructuring of asbestos production into non-terrestrial production. The Act allowed or ensured the cessation of the production of asbestos products, the replacement of asbestos production with inequity and also the provision of social security and the necessary resources for workers exposed to the harmful effects of asbestos dust prior to the termination of production. In addition to restructuring companies, the main purpose of the law was to ensure social security and the necessary resources for workers and residents exposed to asbestos dust. The law allowed workers to obtain an insurance period for retirement and payment of settlement or compensation to patients with asbestos. That is why we adopted a new asbestos law this year in the National Assembly, which we have tabled in the parliamentary procedure with our fellow Member, Bredo Pečan, and thus extended the validity of this asbestos law until the end of 2006. The government has supported this amendment of the law and it is so much more unacceptable that, in the budget rebalancing, the item for the acquisition of the insurance period and for compensation under the asbestos law has reduced by as much as 262 million tolars. With the amendment, I propose the return of the item, which was totalling 692 million in the 2005 budget adopted. The fact is that the asbestos law is not being implemented as it is expected to be affected. Although verification committees operate, with great backlogs, and individuals with one form of disease due to asbestos exposure are waiting for decisions for a very long time. According to the union, today there are 30 people with asbestos who are all ignoring them. Among them is something with a diagnosis of mesothelioma, it is said, with a type of cancer that is practically incurable. Neither employers nor the state want to settle with them and grant them compensation or settlement under the applicable law. In particular, employers, the honorable exception is Salonit Anhovo, and the sick are advised to turn to the courts and thus recover their right. The fact is, with such a diagnosis, that most of the judgments of the courts due to long-term proceedings never wait, the insurmountable disease is faster. I think this is also one of the reasons, because, with the slow work of the commissions and the arrogance of employers, the resources remain in the budget and the government justifies the reduction of this budget expenditure by not having any beneficiaries of settlement and compensation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u245	Thank you very much. Mr. Skull, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u246	I have essentially a procedural proposal to put an end to this debate and to this debate, because for a while now I have been missing a minister who could answer any question related to this department, unless the ministers present can answer it. I think it's an underestimation of the part of the assembly, and please make sure that the right people are here so that we can continue the meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u247	Thank you very much, Mr. Sculpture. Of course, the Minister's presence is desirable, but it is not mandatory, and given the amount of work that is yet to be done, I will, however, decide to continue the debate and give my word to Mr Magi. Clavors.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u248	Mr Vice-President, we discussed this in the National Assembly months ago, on this issue, and I also joined the Members who prepared this amendment to extend this matter. And in fact, to all that Mr Bevk is talking about right now, I have nothing to add. However, I can say that there have been many calls in the last month that I have received and that have warned me that what we have done is not being carried out. I think that the situation is serious, particularly serious for people, but also serious because of our word that we have given to make this thing right, so I will vote for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u249	Mr. Skull, would you like to discuss it?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u250	Look, I, Mr Vice President, want you not to do what you have done right, decide to put such a proposal to the vote. These types of rejection of the proposal will in fact show how serious someone is taking this problem. I was alone among the signatories, I think the first and second marriages, and the ones that were looking for these solutions, and I find it kind of underestimating that one of the things that the National Assembly has actually been doing is, I'm going to say, through this Club of Coastal Members led through party division, that we don't pay any attention to it, and that we don't care that the people who could help solve it are not here at this point. Even more than anyone from the Ministry who could say anything about it. And I ask you to put this procedural proposal to the vote, and let's see what this very sensitive majority thinks about this problem.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u251	So, if I understand you correctly, your proposal is to suspend the meeting until it is attended by a government representative or a minister. I'm putting such a proposal to the vote. Mr. Skolcz, the minister has come to the hall now. Would you like that? [[....]] We're voting. I note that 53 Members and Members were present, 13 votes in favour, 39 against. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 39.]] The procedural proposal is not put to the vote. We're going back to deciding on the amendment. Mr. Skull, a debate? Mr. Rupar, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u252	Thank you very much. That's all I'd like to say to those who are writing a magnetogram that you were aware of the National Assembly when you said that the Secretary of State had arrived. The Secretary of State is still not here.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u253	I'm sorry. Mr. Rupar, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u254	Thank you very much. We have noticed that there has been an abuse in the vote. Mr. Anderlich pressed Mrs. Shirce's button. I'm asking for a copy and a video check to see if this abuse really occurred. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u255	Thank you. This note is recorded in a magnetogram. Leadership will act in accordance with the rules. Please speak only to Mr. Testen, who I give him my word.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u256	Thank you for your word. I will discuss further from where we ended up in connection with the asbestos law. I would like to say in relation to this law that we have discussed this amendment quite a bit on the Committee on the Economy and that it has been ensured by the Minister of the Economy that the funds are sufficient, that the funds from 2004 are still available and that all the funds needed are provided. The question was, what would have happened if only the funds had been running out if they were now taken away. The minister guaranteed that he personally guaranteed that he would get the solutions [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u257	Please, only Mr. Testen has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u258	only the opinion expressed on the Committee on the Economy. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u259	Thank you very much. Mr. Potts.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u260	Thank you very much. In view of these very encouraging statements, which I also remember, I find so illogical that Mr Mag. Klavora, Vice-President, declares that the law is not being implemented, which I believe is because he never speaks irresponsibly, and so illogical that we do not want to have a minister here who would say what happened to the statements he made at the time of the adoption of the law. This simply means that, when the law is adopted, statements are beautiful and encouraging, welcome when it is necessary to implement it, and there is no minister to be able to say that the law is not being implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u261	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this amendment? Mrs. Roach.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u262	I just want to say that it's amazing that it's right here in the style of the Bosnian river, "kady sued, kady sued." In fact, there is a commission at the Ministry of the Economy that decides whether compensation will be awarded to patients with asbestos or other worse forms of asbestos-induced disease. At the same time, this same ministry in the Minister's person tells us how large-scale funding would be provided if they were accidentally lost, if the Commission did not follow his instructions or instruct within the Ministry not to recognise compensation to these victims. This is the biggest problem. So we don't guarantee or approve compensation, so we don't need money, so we can reduce the balance for this purpose. But when we say that it's not being resolved, they say that if we get rid of it, we're going to provide the funds anyway. That is because this same man is the one who holds back the decision, he can be sure that the funds will not run out at all.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u263	Thank you. Mr. Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u264	Thank you very much. I have also read the magnetogram of the Committee on the Economy and is indeed Minister of Economy Mag. The viscous said so. There's only one problem. If you have listened to me very carefully before, the Commission, which finds that there are two commissions, is one commission for the exercise of pension rights under more favourable conditions and the other commission for communication and compensation procedures for asbestos patients. The fact is, these commissions are working too slowly and are not doing their job. And because they are not doing their job, they do not spend their money on these budget lines. For if the Commissions were to address these applications in an up-to-date manner, they would also use up-to-date the funds on these budget lines. That is why I do not think that this argument of the Minister is true. And that he will not have trouble in the event that he happens to have to provide additional funds with some internal transfers, I do not know what is, perhaps even illegal, because I do not know if we are going to adopt any more of the 2005 budget balance this year, I propose what is most logical, that we accept this amendment and provide those funds that were already in the 2003 core budget when we adopted it, is said in the 2005 budget. It is said that we are returning only those funds that have already been in the adopted state budget. So I would appeal to Members and Members of the Coalition in particular to support this amendment. The fact is also, as I said earlier, according to the Association of former asbestos workers, these have been exposed over the past years and decades to the fact that, above all, some other companies to these sick people who have been exposed to asbestos dust would say arrogant behavior and would not admit that they have been sick of this occupational disease. This way, the minister will have enough of these problems this year, because he will surely run out of money, of course, if both commissions work well and if employers do not act arrogantly and inhumanely towards those of their workers who have already become sick because of asbestos. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u265	Thank you very much. I ask again, for the sake of collegiality, that you do all the meanings either outside the hall or whisper. Thank you so much for understanding. And I give my word to Mr. Friend.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u266	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues. I would like to recall the vote on this subject, which we had once before in the National Assembly, when there was no one to vote against the extension of the law and I think this time would be the same. In fact, the proposaler here represents still living, who have a certain life span. Some of those whom we have talked to, even for a few months, and if there is anything human in us, it would be right to essentially support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u267	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to discuss Ambassador Bevik's amendment? If not, we vote. But before that, I'd like to invite you. Mr. Secretary, did you raise your hand?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u268	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would just like to point out, honourable Members and Members, that this amendment cannot be voted on because it would have been tabled in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, insofar as the source to which it actually relates, and these are reserves is impossible in such a way, because it must actually provide this real source. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u269	Thank you, Minister, Dr. Bajuk, but according to the information I have for them, of course I do not see any obstacles in order not to vote on this amendment, because it is therefore included among the other amendments. Yes, Mr. Bevk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u270	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. A well-respected choir. Mr. Minister, I'm not a nobody, no one in this national council has warned me from the competent services that I was making the amendment wrong. It is true that funds are being taken from the Ministry of Finance, namely the servicing of public debt, the obligation to finance the implementation of the budget, and domestic debt. Let me say that when you were doing this rebalancing, you took the most funds and redistributed them right on this item. Therefore, I am firmly convinced that this amendment is primarily properly and commercially put in place. I took it where you mainly took the money when you redistributed the items when you were working on the 2005 budget rebalancing. You have taken 30 billion or more from this item, and I propose only 200 million and so many millions to provide funds for workers who have become sick due to asbestos.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u271	Before I give the floor to the Minister, let me just say that the expert services have informed me and confirmed the hypothesis that there were no concerns about the correctness of the amendment tabled, so that we will continue to discuss and decide on it. Mr. Secretary, do you want more?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u272	Certainly the Member has rightly observed that we have redeployed a number of funds. This is because they have changed a lot of things, too, about debt and on the basis of the financial optimisation programmes that we have already started. But that's an extra one, that's an extra reduction of that, and at this point we can't agree to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u273	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Rupar, procedurally, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u274	Mr President, the conclusion that the last vote was based on fraud by Anton Anderlič and Majda Shirc. There was no lady in place, but she voted in favour with Mr Anderlic's extended hand, for which, of course, the Slovenian Democrats' Group is protesting and asking you to warn them that such fraud does not have a place in this House and that you condemn the act. Of course, we demand that, although the result has been favourable, this vote be repeated and that the Member apologize to this council for the fraud that has been committed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u275	Thank you very much. Of course, any abuse of rules and regulations is worth judging. On a procedural basis, Mr Anderlič, there is no replica, but given that you have been mentioned and that you are easily suspected, I give you my word.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u276	I thank you for that word. Indeed, Mr Rupar, as a clear eye in all cases, with a sense of justice, noticed that Mrs Majda had taken two steps away and that she had said that I should press her button again, otherwise it was half a minute for everyone to get to the key and she could come too. Sorry about that, but the score was 13:45 and it didn't affect that. But since Majda was a conscientious Member and was a few metres away, she wanted to be registered in this vote. That's all. If you think this is such a mistake, it's these cases that people are so, two, three meters away, and they vote in the hall, virtually every day something. But maybe you didn't notice, I apologize for that, and it doesn't belong to the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u277	Thank you very much. Look, I propose that, as long as it is necessary to discuss this in college, the President of the National Assembly will decide and we will discuss this in college and I suggest that we do not burden the National Assembly any further because we still have much work to do. Anyone else want to discuss Mr Bevik's amendment? I guess not. Anybody else want to explain their voice? Mrs. Roach.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u278	I will vote in favour of this amendment because I believe it is fair for this country to take care of all the damage it has done to people who suffer from asbestos and asbestos-related diseases, to pay them back or to at least partially "compensate" for what it has done with its negligence and its neglect of the problem for decades. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u279	I'm asking for peace in the hall again. I'm still giving Mr. Bevk an explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u280	Thank you very much. Mr. Finance Minister wanted to convince me just before today that it was okay to reject my amendment. I am still sure that it is not, because the fact is that both the Commission and the Commission are not doing their work fast enough. Let us just think of an analogy with backlogs in the courts or other backlogs, which the Ombudsman has been constantly reminding of in his reports since his beginning of action. That is why I know that at the end of the year or at the end of the year there will be problems and that this law, which we all together have extended in this Assembly this year, will no longer be in force until the end of 2005. Therefore, I appeal to the honourable Members and Members to accept this amendment and to hope that this, I would say, Mr Rupar's manoeuvre, when he wants to draw attention to another issue, he will not know when he votes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u281	Thank you very much. And Mr. Testen.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u282	Thank you for your word. Despite the fact that we have previously found that, according to the Minister's assurances, the problem seems to be the Commission we talked about and I will vote in favour for personal reasons, given that I have spent a lot of time in Anhove.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u283	Thank you very much. Anyone else? Mr. Sculpture.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u284	I will also support this amendment myself for a simple reason, because the assessment that my colleagues and I had a few years ago will not be accurate enough to settle this, I will say. The fear of Minister Bajuk could, however, be resolved by these so-called harmonisation amendments, if such an amendment is accepted and indeed interferes with a completely unacceptable item. So, from this point of view, if all this good will that everyone is predicting in this matter is the only way that the rebalancing of this means is foreseen, so I will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u285	Thank you very much. I note that this concludes the debate and the explanation. We're voting. There were 68 in attendance, with 25 and 39 votes in favour. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 39.]] It means the amendment has not been voted on. We continue with the amendments. The following user is the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, and the sub-programme is called rural development and adaptation. Here we have a single amendment presented by the investor, Mr Geza Juban.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u286	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. On your parent’s working body, you probably had the opportunity to read the explanation that it was a solution to bitter fruit. This is Goričko, in Prekmurje, not Goriška, which is one of the most important agricultural parts in Prekmurje, and another of the important industries in us, where there is a large proportion of the rural population. When we had a government visit, we also had a promise that it would try to help different parts of the economy with us, to draw us from behind because we are on the tail after national income, at the top after unemployment and so on. And those who participated in the previous call to solve the problem of natural disasters could find that these were most pronounced in this part of Slovenia and in this part of Prekmurje. And bitter fruiting was affected by the loss of crops, due to the failure of cooling systems and the loss of the market. I have proposed this amendment to further develop and survive fruit production, which could help solve the problems that are acute at the moment, because otherwise this industry is very poorly written and we do not know what will happen to it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u287	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Anyone want to explain their vote before the vote? For the sake of formality, let me say that neither the Government nor the parent working body of this amendment support this amendment. Mr. Mag. Saivitz.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u288	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. I think that all of us together have been full of help to the so-called rural development. And I think that this amendment, which Mr Geza Juban is proposing, is a step in the right direction, with little resources from the country, so I will gladly support it in the interests of the Slovenian farmer and the countryside.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u289	Thank you very much. Anyone else? Madam Ambassador Pozsonec.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u290	Thank you very much. This province occupies 6% of Slovenia, but there are 22% of all countries in Slovenia, 12% of all orchards and 11% of vineyards. The landscape is specifically agricultural, and there is no possibility of any industry being brought there. If we want this population to stay there, then something needs to be done. So, I support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u291	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u292	Thank you very much. I think the first part of this amendment is fine. However, the second part, so the item from which these funds are to be redeployed, is not the right one. Because market stabilisation measures, if we are taking from here, we have not actually done anything about agriculture, and of course the proposer knows this very well. Otherwise, I would like to say that the implementation in 2004 was 93 million for this purpose, while the 2005 budget is much higher, at least twice as much as 197 million. Thus, the government was aware that this item should be increased. I say again, for this reason, that it is taken from the actions of the common agricultural policy and redistributed to another programme, the innovative rural development programme, such amendments are non-essential and therefore we cannot support them in New Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u293	Thank you. Anybody else want to explain their voice? I guess not. We're voting. I hope everyone's pressed their own button. 58 Members and Members present, 17 to 39. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 39.]] The amendment was not voted out. The following user is the Ministry of Transport, a sub-programme of public service in rail transport. Three amendments were tabled here. All three have been tabled by Mr Friend. I propose that we hold a debate, as has been the case for all three of us. Let me just say that neither the government nor the mother's working body support these amendments. Mr. Friend, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u294	Thank you very much, Mr President. Respectable ministers, colleagues, colleagues! Holding Slovenian Railways is 100% owned by the State and has three subsidiaries, a passenger transport company, freight and infrastructure, and these items are actually items for which the tax should be taxed, i.e. the country on paper. Since the development guidelines are very tightly cut down on this railway item, I have also decided by means of a profession and at the request of the latter to submit these amendments, so I ask you to support these amendments. This is not the only isolated case that in state-owned companies, which are 100% owned, such matters are not accounted for because they are just paper, but would mean a lot to the system. If we support these three amendments, we have also done a great deal, we can talk about whether the development goals and development programmes will be redirected, so that we will soon be able to divert really difficult transit cargo to the railways, because this should be the strategy of the Slovenian transport system, and that the parts of the routes on which traffic is today being cut short due to poor operational capacity will be updated. Sam and my colleagues will support these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u295	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to discuss these three amendments or any of these three? Anybody want to explain the voice about the first one? I guess not. We're voting on the first amendment. There are 56 Members and Members present, with 15 votes against 40. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 40.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the second amendment. Would anyone like to explain your voice? Mr. Friend.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u296	Thank you, Madam President. I will be happy to copy this list of previous votes when it is available. Since the darkness is no different from the one before, I would ask you to support this amendment in a slightly larger number.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u297	Thank you very much. Anyone else? We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, with 14 votes against 43. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 43.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. And the last, the third amendment. Anybody want to explain their voice? I guess not. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, with 15 votes against 43. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 43.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. The following fairly extensive package of amendments belongs to the user of the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads, a sub-programme called Investment Maintenance and Construction of State Roads. The 22 amendments have been tabled and again I propose that we discuss all 22 of them, and I also open it. Anybody want a word? Mr. Milan Friday.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u298	Vice President, thank you for your word. We are in the clear largest number of amendments, which in turn also shows the distress of Members coming from their surroundings and who feel the most on their skin what is happening in the field of state roads. The fact is, in previous discussions on the parental committee or on the Committee on Finance, we have heard that this is the area that has experienced one of the most powerful reductions in funding. Although the minister said in his public appearances that he was satisfied, he was satisfied that he had been cut short on the highway budget for 8 billion, which he replaced with credit, by borrowing. On the other hand, it was also satisfied, although the resources on the maintenance and construction of state roads were reduced by 2 billion, because in fact last year it was made even less than planned. Of course, the issue of comparing this year’s budget or this year’s rebalancing with last year’s realisation was inappropriate, since it means that you accept someone’s failure to do their job. And because it has not been done in the past period, ambition in this year is worse than it could have been. I think the government, the ministry, the coalition as a whole is wrong in dealing with the construction and maintenance of state roads. We all know the situation in Slovenia. We all know and realize that the level of investment in reconstruction and maintenance and construction is inadequate, but let us put our heads in the sand, because someone will save this for us. We have tried to depreciate these missing two billion LDS Members with amendments concerning areas as a whole, not with a view to focusing these sections on individual sections. The Minister himself said that in 2005 they did not start on 49 projects on state-run roads, of which 1 on the projects rehabilitation of the banks, 6 on the cross-border arrangements, 1 on the road modernisation project, 18 on the renovation or rehabilitation of bridge facilities and so on and so on. The spectrum of roads, the range of buildings that point to this machete relationship, I do not just say this government, this mandate, nor is history any better in this area. For this reason, we have tabled some amendments to the LDS, as of course others, and one of the amendments was the amendment of Mrs Potrata, which concerns the bird road in Maribor, I also tabled it, which appears with some value. I tried to convince the Members of the Home Committee that it was such a pressing issue, so problematic roads that it should be heard in this balance. I'll try to do that with you. It is a road that runs 3 kilometers through the city of Maribor. All transit traffic from Hungary, all transit traffic from Austria and partly transit traffic from Croatia and in the opposite direction of course also to Ljubljana. It is a road, compared to the road through Radgono, some trucks literally stand, a road that has already been found to be one of the most burdened state roads in the Republic of Slovenia, a road that calls for recovery by all criteria, after the start of the rehabilitation and a road that also has a strong civil incentive in the environment in which the road is running. I warn you, and I have repeatedly said that this civil initiative really and seriously thinks that it will be during the most dramatic period of time, this is in the summer when trucks literally stand by the houses when the houses are shaking, when people cannot sleep, so when this basic right of people to rest is not guaranteed, if not otherwise, and the protection against noise and other militias are likely to block the road in this most sensitive summer time, and then we will be surprised if we do not give these people the assurance that this Parliament, this national assembly at the head of the ministry, is seriously planning to take the rehabilitation of this road. It's not just about rehabilitation, it's about anti-group protection, it's about protecting against the influence of other half-tans from the environment. And please take this appeal, not because I am a Mariborian, not because I want to do any political glory there, but because I want to convince you that this is one of the most necessary roads in the Slovenian area that needs reconstruction. Majda Potrat proposed 50 million, I proposed 80 million. The development of the programme also provides for the next two years to be made available. This road must not be built for three years, this road must start working and it must end in one year, otherwise it will be chaos. For this reason, I propose that much of this year's funding be devoted and that it be completed in the following year, which will also be for Maribor, this end of northeastern Slovenia, and especially for those living there, the only solution. I therefore ask for the support of this amendment, Majd Pótrate, if not hers and mine, and in general I propose support for all amendments concerning this area of road construction and maintenance.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u299	Thank you very much. It is correct to say that all 22 amendments are not supported by either the government or the labour force, except the amendment number three, tabled by Mr Potrč. This mother's working body supports it. And the amendment number seven, which was tabled by the Group of Members, the first-signed Mr Barovic. I give my word to Mr. Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u300	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues. The debate that almost a third of all amendments, according to the budget's balance, were very varied and justified many times. Allow me to answer on my behalf, on behalf of the Group of Members, which we have informally joined as Members, this is the Chamber's Club of the Zava Members, and also on behalf of my fellow Member, Mr Happy Friends, who will, of course, have the opportunity to explain his voice. I fully understand that the transport sector is a very attractive element in the construction of this country's infrastructure. This country was established years ago and decided to build the fifth corridor, the tenth corridor, both in the railway and road areas, and to train infrastructure to be among the first and the leading ones. Many ministers who have changed in this area have tried their best and their will. Even at this moment, I must express all the respect and gratitude to Mr Bozic, who, at least at our end, tried to help us at regional and local level and tried to help us as much as possible. Building motorways and building them even before the deadline, at as high prices as they are, on the other hand, helping local and regional development, even with the participation of the congregation, is of course a hopeless puzzle. We understand that there are certain areas that can be built and areas that can be built. In the club I am speaking on behalf of, we have agreed that we will ask and that we will demand the money that is in the 2005 budget, that is, before the rebalancing, determined, allocated and for which in the areas of Hrastnik, Trbovlje, we have done everything we had to do to carry out our duty, not our right, our duty, in the normal budget. This is mainly the area of state roads that we are upgrading, upgrading and thereby building up infrastructure assistance for this country. Especially because we're right in the middle of a 25-mile radius. And how will such an oak, trebwell, Radar, and Zagorina congregation be important if anything happens on the highway at any time. Remember that. Once again, we ask and demand that you take into account everything we have done, what belongs to us in the budget, and for which, of course, we have already invested municipal funds. If the state gives 70%, I mean, 30%, we put them in the budget and we started our activities. We don't want anything else, we don't want to get it, we want to keep it. That's the point. I speak on behalf of my colleague, Mr Jerič, I speak on behalf of Mr Han, who, irrespective of political colours, will define each other for their amendments. Therefore, fellow Members, be reasonable, what is happening is what is being reserved, what is being done, what must be done is for the good of this country. If not, the state will be the culprit because, not least, how will the congregation prove by claiming that it has already invested funds. with the promise that a proportionate share will be contributed by the State, with the promise that the funds in the balance were foreseen when we do it in half or on the fourth, one thing to the end, and then we will stop. Any such stopover shall mean at least 25 to 30 % of incentives over the years. In particular, in the case of my amendment, which, thank God, has been supported by my mother's working body, the thing is so far away that after the analysis we have done on the basis of actual data, the matter is moved not only for one year but for three years. And that's at the corner of the state road, where there was a lot, a lot, almost, thank God, not the deaths yet, and where children go to school. But I can tell you about my case, but I say again, on behalf of the Club of Zavavian Members, regardless of political colour, regardless of wishes and desires, but according to the promises we have made and according to the facts and actions we have already done. We've done our part. From here on out, there is only a matter of the state and the balance of this budget. For the sake of understanding and if you have read the explanations, thank you very much to all those who will tell our amendments. As for our friend, Mr Happy Friend, I must say that there is also a member of the Zasavje family among us, because he was born in Zasavje, and he has been living in Primorska for a number of years and has been fighting for the solcan bypass. The Solkan bypass is not just about him, it is about our traffic and our operation together with Europe, with Italy, along with everything we experience together. So please, and on the other hand, I demand, what is applied, let's respect what we want, but what is God's dream, and we have concluded, we also eat, we don't want to eat, we don't want another, we don't want to give our own.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u301	Thank you very much. I ask once again for attention and peace to be spoken only by that Member or Member who has the word and the word of Mr Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u302	Thank you so much for saying that. Given that Bogdan Barovic has already told almost everything about the amendments coming from this area, from Zasavje, where I am myself, I would, however, speak about these amendments which I have tabled with the help of the Zasavov MEPs. I would like to say that these amendments have some weight and some real image, especially because they know that this is our Zasavje and this part of Slovenia is exempt from the highway cross and we face daily problems that are bad, infrastructure is bad. And if these governments are full of mouths when they promise higher economic growth, I think that road connections and traffic also affect economic growth, so we have tabled these amendments in the club of the Zava members. I would like to refer in particular to the amendment relating to the reconstruction of the G1 5 road, that is Celje-Krško, section of the Shire-Zidani bridge. With this amendment, the funds in the budget that have been provided to us have been taken away from us at the value of 59 million, and with this amendment that we have tabled, we are returning only these funds and, in fact, confirming a project that has been planned for many years and is being passed on and on and on again and again for the next period. That is also the current proposal. By deepening the underrail in the Wall Bridge, traffic is possible for all, including the largest freight vehicles, and this causes huge problems and delays on the Walla Bridge section and the mentioned section. With these 69 million Slovenian tolls or an increase of 59 million, the investor would probably be able to make an investment, provided, of course, that the remaining funds necessary for the implementation of the whole project are also provided in the coming years. We therefore propose that you support these amendments and all the other amendments, the four which relate primarily to the municipality of Laško, that you support Members and Members of Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u303	Thank you very much. I give my word to Mr. Germich.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u304	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I'd just like to give you a few arguments for the amendment under number nine. This includes additional funds relating to two important roads running on the left and right side of the Drava River from Maribor to the west, namely Maribor-Radlje-Dravograd, through Selnica ob Drava, which has already started with an investment and which with additional means can complement the project. The second road, which runs from Maribor on the right side of the river Drava, is through Limbuš, Bistrica, Ruše and forward towards Lovrence on Pohorje. It is two sections, one section is arranged through Limbuš and the other is the Maribor-Fall Road in Ruša. In all three cases it is the modernisation of the road, the regulation of the sidewalk, of course with an extremely large investment project of the Limbuš regime, where it is a very wide network of intersections with many falling and export roads. Here I would just like a possible explanation, given that we have discussed this on the Committee on Finance and that it has been stated by my fellow Member, Mayor Ruš, Mr Rezman, that these funds are not necessary and that the implementation of these projects does not require any additional resources. In doing so, I would like to say that in 2004 the Maribor-Fall Road had already provided 42 million untapped in the budget, and with these resources in 2005 it could increase the dynamics. As far as the settlement road is concerned, there is a record of the mayor's request that, despite all that has been happening on the parental committee, I insist on the amendment, and also the people living in the local community of Limbuš, on behalf of the people of the President of the Council, given the current situation that is taking place there, and given the timing of this investment, on their behalf, I ask for the support of this amendment. The fact that these sections don't need funds, of course, it doesn't. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u305	Thank you. I give my word to Mr. Potsch.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u306	Thank you very much. Since I have already participated in the debate and decision on budget and rebalancing on several occasions, I know that there have always been many concrete proposals by amendments to regulate road links, mostly on state roads, which have always been somehow in a different way, and I can also say that the visa of the highway has been partially neglected. However I assess these discussions and proposals, I can argue that it has been difficult to say that any of them was not justified, and this is groundless only in terms of the interests of some local links, but also justified in terms of the country's connections as a whole, but also in terms of transport safety and the conditions of work and people's lives. That is why I believe, and I am sure, that these are also the proposals, all 22, which are submitted at the time of this budget's rebalancing, and I will support all 22. That is true, it can also be seen in a good way, especially when the government, which, after reading it myself, I hope that in no way does it say that any highway section is unfounded, vice versa, or a word about it. It always says that they are bad resources that the applicant has chosen, and this does not reflect what the sources are: whether they are sources of finance or administration or economy or defence. The resources are always unacceptable. The purpose itself, and the government is silent about it. I would like to say with regard to one road, which I myself propose, this is the railway in Radljah, under point 3, that you probably all know that Koroška is a relatively large road pocket, that ecological connections both with Celje or Velenje, as well as against Maribor, work exceptionally along the snails and slowly, that the construction of the state road is necessary there, because there are no realistic prospects for further decades for the construction of motorways there. This is an important connection between Koroška and, after all, Austria and the highway cross, either at Velenj or Arji village or at Maribor. That is why I think it is right to give priority to such projects. I am glad that a positive opinion was reached at this point. It's probably not entirely random, because Members never vote like that, but consciously. If the reason is because this is the smallest amendment of value, it's even more beautiful and I expect your support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u307	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u308	Thank you very much. Just for a little while. When it comes to road construction and maintenance of road infrastructure, in fact everyone here could state each section of their own, their reason and also propose their own amendment. In fact, if I may say so, it's some kind of cowardly egg that, in fact, I hope to say, was planted by the previous government. If we are looking at the 2004 reality, it was 15 billion 755 million. In 2005, the government planned a large amount of 550 million. And now, despite the decline and despite these perceptions that construction is slowing down at 45 sections, we can see that the balance is still above realisation. This means that 16 billion 567 million are planned or planned to be used for this purpose, which is not such a small increase. And if I touch myself with just two sentences where these funds are trying to be taken. I know that many have written amendments, just as we were when we were in the opposition, in order to draw attention to the problem. I would like to point out, however, that every year we are discussing, more or less, that these means for the area of roads are somehow being taken to items where they are not possible. And one such item is nothing. Here in this National Assembly we have more or less permanent problems with the Liberal Democracy, which is trying to reduce these funds for direct payments subsidies. But, dear colleagues, this is part of the common agricultural policy. You can't cut the eco any funds. That's what we've been trying to tell you the past few years, and don't mind me telling you again. This is what has been agreed in Brussels, and Slovenia must respect this agreement in this area. This year we arrived at 90% of the average 15th in 2007, according to the agreement, these payments must be at 100% level. And you are suggesting that for this purpose, it should be reduced by one billion this year. The same is true of Mr Jerič's proposal, which proposes the opposite of what he had just proposed. Mr Juban suggested that rural development programmes should be increased and he suggested that they should be reduced. So, then, the matter is similar or the same. We are bound by agreements within the framework of the common agricultural policy and our part of rural development funds should not and cannot be reduced, because if we do, of course, we will not be able to draw on the resources that will be earmarked for this purpose within the framework of the common European agricultural policy or rural development. It is not possible to support these amendments from these perspectives. However, the problem of road infrastructure is more or less across Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u309	Thank you. Mr. Friend.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u310	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Your Honor! These amendments, particularly when we are talking about so-called Rebirical Sewing Roads, are infrastructure that is not in shining condition. And it's only right that we're aware of that when we press the keys. For those who are in the effects of automation, let me say that this is one of the few amendments confirmed by the mother's working body. So there will be no mistake, fellow officers in position, in that first vote, you can press for without worry. I would also like to say, if I am allowed, Mr President, to refer to the railing. I am also chairman of the Maritime Members' Club, and I have not specifically knocked on the souls of individuals, but I know that there are so many patriots in each of them that this amendment will support, because whoever is driving on this path knows that this is absolutely necessary. And a number of ministers have already promised to handle this matter. When Mr. Brulc, the mayor, asked me for this amendment, I didn't even have a chance to say no. That's why I'm asking you to support this amendment as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u311	Thank you. I reiterate that the debate is open about all the 22 amendments, so you can comment on any of these or, of course, in the package. Mr. Rezman's next.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u312	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Let me say that in the DeSUS Group, of course, I would be pleased if all 22 amendments could be supported, since no one is likely to be the one that is not needed. However, just as we know that it is necessary to rebuild and reconstruct roads, we know that we must also take into account some of the other needs that Slovenians and Slovenians have in other areas and that, unfortunately, everything does not go in one financial year alone. Today we are talking about priorities, so what will be the advantage of something else, which will also be the turn of the day, and probably with some time delay. That is why we have also supported some of the amendments on the committee that held this remarkable and marathon session. Without our votes, even the mother body would not be in favour of these amendments, and I fear that it will show up here in the national assembly now, but that the assembly, which naturally has a larger number of Members and Members, of what the mother body has supported, will not support so uniformly. For one amendment that was supported, I think it will, and for another, I have a little doubt. However, with regard to purely specific amendments, I must of course respond to the discussion of those who spoke about the congregation that I am leading, in which I am the mayor, in which I have not even been asked how our investments are going, and of those congregations that are next to me and which I know very well because they have been under our framework until recently, i.e. the common community. I would like to say that such package amendments, where even one amendment wants to get rid of three municipalities or with one amendment to the electorate and electorate in three municipalities, are another possible explanation that such packages are somewhat weak. It looked like, I'd say, a flyman, where you only swing once and fall three times. But that usually doesn't work, it's just that the debate has also shown on the working body and I'm afraid that this is how it's going to be in this assembly. As far as Rush is concerned, the dynamics are exactly as planned. The contracts are concluded, the financial structure is closed and nothing has been missed. This is what I, who was a signatory, I, therefore, know the financial flow and I know what the Minister and I have signed. And that's just before labor, which is how it's done. However, I must say that the proposaler, who proposes that something change here now in the previous balance when I suggested that this should be done quickly, objected. In our municipal council, they voted against and the Member did not wish to refer the amendment to the National Assembly at that time. Now it's this, I'd say, salto mortal maybe because it's the second year of local elections. I don't see any rational reason. As for the villages and roads that have been discussed, I have an agreement in my hands. Mr Mayor, who spoke today, asked me, three weeks ago, whether he wanted me to intervene in the budget, in writing he assured me, together with the Director of Administration, that there was no need for everything to be in order. The agreement, which I have in hand, is also signed, four-partite, and discusses how this investment, which also has everything completed, because after a call for proposals the contractor has already been selected and already works, is thus fully concluded. But there is something else in this agreement, it says, that if there is any extra work, each partner will cover their costs and the ministry or the state has committed itself to doing its part. Today, we are not making a rebalancing of municipal budgets, but a rebalancing of the state budget. These two categories would be good to separate, because otherwise we'll get the ones we don't want to get involved with. The third investment is an investment mentioned between Maribor and the Russians. And again I hold in my hand a paper that tells about why Maribor City Hall is taking hold. And this proposal is not there, it seems that they are satisfied in Maribor with this dynamic, which is also completed. That is why I have to find out, as I have found on the Committee on Monetary Policy and Finance, that we will be terribly happy in Ruša and Selnica and probably also in Maribor, if we get anything more than we need right now, but I doubt that there is a whole series of rejected amendments that we would probably need even more. I would, although Maribor is not my congregation, but I feel like other Rušanians are probably connected because there is no other separation of life flows between us, these funds, which are more proposed, have been earmarked for a ptujska road, of which the Rušan, Selničians, Lovrenčani and others would also benefit. If a single amendment is necessary when the word is being used directly, we will continue to argue.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u313	Thank you. Mr. Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u314	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! All the priorities of the Transport Ministry are clearly focused on the highway programme, not only in this coalition, but also throughout the period since the motorway cross began to be built. That is true, there are also numerous amendments to the state road network, not only those 22 amendments for this time's rebalancing, but also dozens and dozens of amendments to previous budgets. It would be interesting to see what the number of amendments would be if the coalition Members could also make amendments to the 2005 budget balance. I'm sure this number could be twice as big. The problem is that in fact some areas in this country are neglected because not all areas are as close to the highway cross as the larger provincial centers. Let us take a look at White Krajina, Kočevsko and Sosočje or Koroška, so it is essential that the Ministry of Transport relaunch the national programme for the modernisation of state roads of national importance, which has already been prepared by the former Ministry under the leadership of Dr Mark Pavliha. I think you might be a magician. Christmas brought this paper as soon as possible, as he and his associates imagined, into government procedure and then sent it to the National Assembly. This is a major project that will also be able to deal with the highway program. I am sorry that the coalition Members have not prepared a coordinated or road programme, at least this tradition has been so far. Right on the 2005 budget, we have tabled an amendment of billions and a half in 2003, which took into account not only the coalition needs but also the needs of those of the opposition Members. And I don't know if there's really such an iron discipline in this coalition that you couldn't afford to put any amendments on the budget's balance sheet. I'm sure it wouldn't hurt you a little bit more. I specifically tabled five amendments. By value, the highest is the one who is supposed to provide funds for the Thessaloniki bypass and is substantively identical to the amendment tabled by his fellow Member Friend, because the Novogori mayor, Mr Brulc, addressed all the parliamentary groups in his letters and in just two of them we responded to his call. That it is indeed problematic to build a solar fence, there is a comparison of the country's budget and development plans. In this adopted budget, the value [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u315	Can I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u316	the project from 2005 to the end of 3 billion 599 million. [[...]] [[Mr. Žnidaršič could interrupt a little, because you're too close to me, you're disturbing me a little.]] However, this balance, which is recorded here in the Rapporteur, together with the country's development plans, is only another two billion 530 million from 2005 until the end of the project. So you're saying that you've picked up a solar carousel in this coalition for one billion tolars. However, in order not to fail my tradition, I have submitted four smaller supplements, namely that network of state roads connecting to the road between Kalcami and Robic in the territory of the Idrija and church municipalities. These four amendments are supposed to provide smaller resources for the link between Želen and Cerkni, between Lower Trebuša and Lower Idrija, between Lower Idrija and Zirmi, and I think that, as my colleague Rezman said, without bad news, all 22 amendments to the Ministry of Transport and Roads could be supported without bad news. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u317	Thank you very much. Now it's Mr. Potch's turn.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u318	Thank you very much. Only three short opinions. First, it is not possible and correct to compare the planned funds with the revised balance if, at the same time, it is not taken into account that over 40 billion also vary in the overall volume of consumption and only in this relationship can it be seen whether or not the motorway programme of state roads is being given disproportionately. This is one criterion that has not been met so far. The second criterion is objective needs. The second thing I wanted to say is that it's true, which you say is that only roads are not the needs of this country, but a lot of other things. It is true, however, that it is not correct to compare the intended use with each specific amendment for the construction of a particular motorway section. You know very well that it is possible - and this has been pointed out by my fellow Member Bevk - to make the necessary adjustments after the amendments have been adopted, where not the whole, but the part, and where there are also different requirements for the use of funds, such as those directly under the individual amendment. And it is also what surprises me that the current coalition did not want to make any minor changes in this area of the highway program, but simply decided that a large majority, it is said, 20 out of 22 rejects and eventually 2 just accepts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u319	Thank you. Mr. Juban.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u320	Thank you very much. I find it quite obvious when a coalition MP says that you were doing the same thing when you were in the opposition. It means that we have to do the same, in the hope that it will happen as well as then that any of the amendments have been supported and that we have just made some wise decision after the vote, if we jointly, coalition and opposition, in any case. I myself propose an amendment reflecting the transport problem of Prekmurje, when traffic has increased since last May as no one expected in this country. And the measurements indicate that it will increase further, and the traffic situation is terrible. While one part of the highway solves some problems, traffic on certain state roads has been stopped. One such story is the relationship of Murska Sobota-Workenci through the municipality of Tišina, where the road is in reconstruction and is not useful for freight transport. And this reconstruction is supposed to last another three years. That is why I have tabled this amendment so that it may be possible to secure funds and speed up this reconstruction and reduce the problems that are probably among the worst traffic problems in the country where freight traffic is increasing in particular and the situation is unbearable along these roads. But I would not like to repeat what some of you have already said, what is the situation where the traffic situation is what it is. I think it's extremely severe with us. I would ask for support, and if this amendment had happened, many problems would have been solved by residents there, at least to some extent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u321	Thank you very much. So far, I have three other panellists on my list, Mr Rezman, mag. Clavoro and Mr. Germich. Mr. Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u322	Thank you very much again. Now it's going to be a little strange, because it's going to look like Mr. Sam Bevko and I are dealing with each other, but I also have to resist what he said. And I agree with one piece, with the part where he wanted to say that this budget and this part about the road programme, of course, is not the best part. I also think that something else could be done to make it today, so we have the amendments, so we will also vote and perhaps we will improve something else. I'm not too sure about this, but this option is still open to us. Let me say that when we talk about this, I also speak on behalf of our Group of Members. In the context of the DeSUS Group, we have also prepared some things, given up some things and have failed in some cases. There'll probably be another talk about it. There are also voices within the coalition that don't always tell the same stories, but there can also be thoughts that try to change something else. Therefore, I would like to challenge the other part in which the claim was not made, but it was doubtful whether anyone else in the coalition with their head hopes to think. I can also say that there would be one, or a group of Members. Surely, I can say this for myself and I can also argue for my fellow Members that our deadlines are not always guided by others. We're trying to think for ourselves. In doing so, we try to act in a way that makes us feel good about ourselves, that we have acted responsibly, and that we have acted as our conscience dictates. But we cannot do as some would, because if we had 90 times three proposals for roads, this is 270 different proposals. And you know it's impossible to pull it off. That's just how those who want to do it like the medievals do. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] Or like some kind of cocktail when he thinks he must always bow to the electorate and the electorate. [[...]] And I think we have to do things properly and not just by counting on support in the elections.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u323	Thank you. Mr. Bevk has a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u324	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. A well-respected choir. You are indeed, I would say, Comrade Rezman, an exception to this coalition. You have been one of the few in addition to the honourable Vice-President, Mr Klavora, who supported the asbestos amendment, so I expect that there will probably be an exception to any amendment that touches on the improvement of the state road network. It's an exception. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u325	Thank you. Let me point out that the replica is not meant to agree with each other, but to explain why someone was misunderstood. Thank you. My colleague, Vice President of Klavor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u326	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I found myself in this situation twice today, for the first time in this asbestos law, the second time in mentioning the solcan carriage. In asbestos law, because I know what the pains of asbestos are. And secondly, because I'm home in Solkan and maybe this thing is even more familiar to me. Third time I'd like to mention something else. I came to this Parliament at the will of the people, and it will be difficult for the people of Soča or the country of Solkana, or Goriška, who unfortunately does not have any Member, to say absolutely calm and to hear all that is said about the solcan bypass. I tabled the amendment, but then I accepted the notice that this amendment had not gone forward. But it was written, exactly. I'm a little embarrassed that the two amendments to the Solkan bypass are also mentioned, but it would be hard for me to say that I didn't react to it. Because after all, I'm going back to Gorica on Saturday or Friday, Saturday, Sunday. I know that no minister, not for transport, not for finance, can do miracles, and that as many of us as we are in here, there are as many road problems in Slovenia. They're not just crosses, but they're also things that are smaller and vital to a particular area. The Solkan bypass does not save Solkan, saves traffic from Soča, from Trnovska, Banjska Planota and from the whole Brd, in one direction and in the other direction, that is the shortest connection. The one who saw what it looked like, if he doesn't know, you probably all know what it looks like, please look at it. It would be a shame if you worked on it. I accepted this explanation of the coalition, but in my own best interests and also in order to speak honestly before this assembly, that the Solkan siege was also a problem, I also volunteered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u327	Thank you very much. Mr. Germich, so far as the last one on the list.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u328	Thank you very much. Just for an explanation and a magnetogram. Given that some inaccurate facts have been said here, I would, of course, like to point out that whoever will monitor the development programmes programme and the fate of the budgets during 2002, 2003 will be able to read clearly what the views and my behaviour regarding the Maribor-Fall Road were, the other thing is, surprisingly, the strict insistence of Mr Rezman on one previous village mayor's notices, although he was informed of 12.6. orally on his part and with the request for support of this amendment. So much for an explanation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u329	Thank you. Mr. Friday, then Mr. Rezman. Unless you have a replica. Ah, the replica, Mr. Rezman, then Mr. Milan Petek.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u330	So, as far as Selnice and this section of the road are concerned, the thing is quite clear to me. But it is not clear to everyone, so I have brought with me material, an agreement which is signed and which specifies exactly who will pay for it. And the state has committed itself to settling everything. However, it is not possible for all 193 municipalities to want to transfer their share of funding to the country. Then the municipal budgets would not be necessary, nor budgets, nor their rebalans. I explained this to the mayor, but Mr Germič did not ask me, and he would have, and he would probably have understood, he just didn't have the need to teach him anything about this agreement. But he's got the effect. He showed up in front of the villagers that he wanted the extra money that he didn't need under this agreement to bring to Selnica, and he didn't make it. But I stress once again that I will be very happy if we get this money both in Ruša and in Selnica, but there are no rational arguments for this. If the Members and Members vote irrationally and we still get that money, I will give it to Mr Germich for a drink, too.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u331	Mr. Friday, then Mr. Žnidaršič.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u332	Thank you, Vice President. I would like to give my support to the amendment tabled by the President, my colleague Pavlich, who cannot now defend this right. It's about the amendment concerning the carriageways. I said earlier that in maintaining and building state roads, this budget was deeply affected by 2 billion cuts, and within this it was also painfully affected by the bonds that some previous colleagues had already talked about. The amendment tabled by Mr Pavlich, which speaks of 318 million, speaks only of the return of these funds at the level envisaged in the 2005 budget. By these means, if the amendment had been adopted, what had already been confirmed or voted on the parent board, the construction of the railway Radje for 16 million, the western suburb Maribor-Limbuš for 75 million, Bled for 88 million, Vrtojba for 14 million, Škofljica 40 million and Kostanjevica for 83 million. So it's a dispersed siege all over Slovenia, nothing local here, but it's a problem of knowing what these bonds mean. And if this amendment were supported, we would provide some approximately appropriate dynamics in the performance of these works, counting that next year it will be better in relation to the bonds. So, my proposal is that the amendment tabled by Mr Pavliha, which is in the package of all amendments at the Ministry of Transport, be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u333	A nice welcome to the National Assembly on my part, too! Thank you, Vice President Pavlich, for taking the lead so far. We continue the debate on the basis of the list. The next reported is colleague Žnidaršič.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u334	Thank you very much. When we listen to this debate on amendments concerning the highway programme in the country, it seems that some Members who have tabled these amendments are right, but those who have not done so are wrong. I have to tell you that I have prepared myself, not one, but two amendments on this subject. Also, at least 20 amendments were prepared within the government coalition. Don't waste my time explaining why we don't have harmonised amendments today. The thing is simple: for one too many, for all too little. In any way, it has proved to be a privilege for those who would succeed and, of course, to discriminate against all those individuals who would fail to do so. And we agreed to withdraw all the amendments, because they meant so much money in a global way, that they would significantly overturn all the programs from which this money would have to be taken and put on roads. I am saying this because the public would not live in the mistaken belief that we coalition Members are not responsible for the highway programme or how we do not think about it, or whether we do not want to pursue the interests of our environment as well as the wider environment. It must be said that some of the amendments that we have been thinking about covered many of those that are still being tabled, and some also covered a wider space for individual areas of need on our roads. I think we're wasting our time right now. Most of the amendments will fail because they can't be otherwise, and I think it's right that we said that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u335	Thank you. The text is by the Member of the Vice-President.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u336	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I agree with the forerunner that we've been wasting our time here for the past two hours. But not now to understand that I do not agree that these roads need to be built, but I do not think this debate is going in the right direction. Here for two hours, I listened very carefully to this debate, we are talking about amendments of the order of 10 to 30 million and 50 million, except for those of Mr Pavli, which is 300 million. Okay, we're talking from 10 to 30 million for two hours. On this item, I ask you here, Mr Minister, to listen carefully because we have already talked about this and I will very much insist that something is actually done here. On this item or sub-item of the Roads Directorate, we do have items for which he has zeroed nine. Like patching up or overcoating in the winter, and if we add this together, we can get to the 4 billion that he then distributes, with all due respect that he will not be charged again with any impatience, third-class official in the Roads Directorate. This is a matter that will have to be pursued, and this is the legacy of the conduct of the former authorities. Here they tell us the real ones, the less real ones, the ones we tabled the amendments, the ones we didn't. In addition, I have heard that in 2003 they agreed within the coalition to cover the coalition's needs, while at the same time giving some change to the opposition. I'm sorry, I'm very rarely in my turn in eight years, but it's not a matter of when someone's going to be on their turn - yes, but let them know exactly what criteria and when I'm going to be able to meet my road that I've been waiting for 15 years. I think that this is the key to the problem, and, Minister, with a heavy heart I will support this budget this time, but I assure you that if they do not take any root action here, you will not have my vote next year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u337	Thank you. Member Kontic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u338	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I will support the amendments in this chapter myself. I would like to relate in particular to the environment from which I come and to which I have repeatedly been alerted, but sometimes I am given the impression that the time is when we could do something, pass and that those who might have done something at that time are late and have done nothing. But now it's happening again. The government could also propose a rebalancing of the Coroner's transport link to the motorway cross. And when fellow Member Miran Potrč has tabled an amendment for the needs of Radje Oblast, of course we know that 16 million does not mean much. It means that this investment will continue and that it is in the programme and that it will be possible to allocate more resources in the next year in the budget to address this problem that they face in Radja. Rather, they become problematic because the noise caused by cars driving through Radlje has become unbearable and this siege is necessary if we want to avoid repeating the history we have received and are still listening from Prekmurje and from those places where transit roads pass through the settlement. So the amendments that have been tabled are not only a desperate attempt by Members to warn themselves and thus gain a voice more, but I am sure that all Members and Members in this National Assembly travel a great deal in Slovenia, and above all around their places. And if anyone knows the problem of roads and the related problems that arise, even developmental ones, then we are Members and Members. And when we draw attention to these problems in our amendments and want to eliminate them, we are taking them seriously. And I warn you again, I have not tabled any amendments to this budget rebalancing. I also know about the fate of the opposition amendments, but I still appeal to the ministerial assembly to think about further development of transport infrastructure in Slovenia in a way that is more consistent with regional development; that is, roads where people need them. The fact that the Members had agreed in the past has always been that they had agreed in the coalition and that individual amendments had been tabled, supported and voted on. And it may also have been so that the coalition MPs have said, we will have these roads, but not all will be visible so that the coalition simply accepts the solution itself, we will also accept some amendment by the opposition Member. I expect this time, too, that this impression will remain after this vote on these amendments, because otherwise it will be a significant difference between the government coalition in the current composition from the previous one. The former has accepted at least an amendment from the opposition Members. I propose that, when we vote on these amendments, we are inclined to the solutions that are proposed, but I am particularly appealing to these funds again, there are not many of them, 16 million on the amendment tabled by colleague Miran Potrč and somehow gives hope that Radje will be given a lift in the coming years.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u339	Thank you, Comrade Kontic. Mr Janc is next on the list of applicants. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u340	Thank you very much, Chairman. Your Honor! For two hours we have been listening to such and different amendments, which of course sit and drink water and I would like to support them all because they are necessary because they are not just meant to be. I have to say that in the past, maybe even on an account or not a highway program which the regional road has somehow remained in the background or: because we will do it when we do it. I hope that these amendments, which I am reading, I also know, these projects are certainly true, they drink water and, according to my assessment, they must be in the implementation work as soon as possible. But, dear colleagues, we are in the middle of the 2005 budget, which was adopted by the previous government, as it is. We've got a balance sheet and emergency repairs, revenue corrections, expenses. Neither the Minister nor the Prime Minister nor the National Assembly can make such a miracle. Let's be objective, because it's no different than the municipal budgets, because there's a lot more money than we have there. It is true, however, that some may be unjustifiably criticising previous stories, which in the field of Slovenia in certain regions have been thrown in by considerable money, and today this is something that is quickly forgotten. That's not the right thing to do. I think that some of the findings are not the most appropriate for some former ministers, but also for the former government after all. In the debate, I myself said that the Ministry of Transport was heavily malnourished. Road authorities have a substantial shortage of maintenance money, let alone investment. And all the Members of all the regions, believe me, would like more money on this item, so that we, too, in the region of Posavje, Zasavje, Koroška, Dolenjsko, do not know where to bring some money, but from these budget lines, from this budget, from this balance simply this is not possible. And believe me, as a member of the post, I would like one, or two, or even three amendments, believe me, absolutely necessary. The more we talked, the more we found out, the more we realized he wasn't from anywhere. And unfortunately, I will wait, so much patience, for the 2006 and 2007 budgets, when there will be no more excuses, why not now. And in the final stage, I want to do the same, and our region in which I was elected to this House to try to do the same thing as my colleagues now from the opposition want this and he amendments. But I know this is gonna be hard. 90 Members, 90 amendments for the road would be the least necessary, but unfortunately this bread will not be much, obviously not, but I hope that more bread will come out of this flour in 2006,2007,2008, I hope that, even though all the wishes of us, Members and municipalities and regions will never be satisfied, that is a fact. However, I believe that it could be and I think that the road is still something that every citizen, citizen, mayor, MP and ministers have been given a level playing field, is, and is likely to be in Slovenia for some time. When we finish the highway cross, I hope that as soon as possible, there will still be many regional connections, which are desperately bad, against the White landscape, Posavje, Zasavje and elsewhere towards Koroška, where they are essential for the movement of people, goods, capital and more. I am the optimist of eternity, and I hope that some bread will come out of this flour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u341	Thank you, colleague Janc. Member Zagorac has the floor. You're giving up. Mr Brenčič is next on the list of applicants.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u342	Thank you very much. The key problem is how to cover all or how to ensure the necessary amount of resources to maintain the network of state roads both for maintenance and for updating, as well as for urgent, more serious investment investments such as bypasses, is not far from being the key to the problem in those 4 billion shared by a maintenance officer under the annual programme of the Republic for Roads. Even less so, this time, the coalition MPs have not written the'mega' amendment, but the fact is that for many years the simple volume of funding for the network of state roads has been far behind the evident needs only in terms of annual traffic growth. And so where there is so much concentration of a political mass or more Members, even common amendments, such as the saviour, etc., are created there slowly with any "mega" amendment a little bit more. But I will warn you that already nine years ago, when I began the trip of a Member, I warned you that at the time, I do not know, after 6 years, the state of Slovenia has still not joined some villages for Charanka, they are under the jurisdiction of Slovenia and are physically bound through Charanka and three kilometres across Croatian territory to enter its municipality. And today, after 14 years, the situation is exactly the same, but of course there is no one to gather a group of influential people to press the Ministry to push the budget to make this happen. I want to say that the fact is that it is necessary to approach the investment segment of the State Road Network immediately, with a preliminary programme, a national programme, and with a relatively strong majority of the funds, because it is impossible to sustain otherwise. I tell you, already today, when you take the highway on Friday for Primorsko, you can drive now in the season to Vrhnika even an hour. How much more will we need in a short time as much as a cross-border network of state roads if we are to be able to implement one current transport policy at all. So it is not a problem that we want to solve something in the rebalancing now, but we put it through for the 2006 budget, but based on the arguments to be drawn up by the Ministry of Transport, with all the resources for the state roads network, it must increase strongly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u343	Thank you, Comrade Brenčič. Next on the list is Member Friend.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u344	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen! We have over 20 roads in this package where amendments are tabled, for which amendments are tabled for which we request additional funds. This suggests that this is a very pressing issue and that the state does not devote much to these problems. The fact is, some of the interlocutors speak, yes, where we'll take it. Look, we have 700 billion for salaries in public administration. If only 5% were to cut wages, which also cost 300% more than Members of Parliament, we would have more money for all state roads. And last but not least, local patriotism may not be a virtue, a little joke, because we don't have regions yet, but maybe after we have regions, we'll have a little more localpatriots. Before we voted on this railway package, I was firmly convinced that my colleagues had voted in favour. When I asked them, they said, "Let's make fun of where we were hoping, because we don't hope." So, the government is really ruling with an iron hand, and I hope that at least here there will be so much wisdom in this package that we will allow people to have normal roads to the White Ljubljana and beyond, because state roads are the only source for many citizens to go without paying toll. But the roads know how expensive they are. When we vote, it's only right that we're a little bit of a patriot and think about where someone's coming from. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u345	Thank you. Member Kangler has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u346	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! I did not intend to speak to these amendments myself, and I myself have not tabled any amendments in relation to the budget's rebalancing. It is true, however, that all the wishes I wanted alone with the amendment, that the Member of the State and also Member Milan Petek, who come from the area as themselves, have been summarized. However, I would like to say the essence of what everyone in this House should be aware of, that today we do not accept the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. The point is that today we are working on a budget rebalancing for this annual period. And most importantly, we're in the middle of the year. And if the honourable Members know the law on public procurement and all other segments affecting certain items, the essence in the two-year budget is to change the image, to change items or certain investments that are open at the moment, to leave unfinished, cannot and is not responsible. This is not a responsible act. However, it is true and I also expect that, for the next period in the preparation of the budget, in any case, we are all working together to do so, as the Head of the DeSUS Group has already indicated some things. It is also important that something has actually happened in the area of roads and state roads and motorways this year. It happened, however, that for the first time, the government was recovering the situation on Slovenian railways with budget lines within the Ministry of Transport. So far, these solutions have been resolved and sought through the Ministry of Finance and through the government, as far as Slovenian Railways are concerned. That is why I also expect from the coalition, as well as from the Finance Minister, that, due to the rehabilitation of the Slovenian Railways and the items found within the balance sheet, the indexation of this ministry in the coming year will be slightly different than this year. I also expect an increase in investment funds. I also come from such an area, where the highway is built, forward, from Maribor to Prekmurje and also towards Zagreb the highway program goes partly further, partly standing. In view of the interstate talks both between the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia and the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, it is of great interest that the Pire Highway be built. That is why I appeal to the government and also to the minister to take all measures and all possibilities to find and ensure that the road is built as soon as possible. It is important that transit due to peace and stability in the Balkans, in the Middle East, is significantly increased through the Šentilj border crossing to the Balkans and that local roads as well as state roads are burdened. And if today you need two hours to come from Maribor to the Miklavž or Parents Congregation, which is only 10 to 12 kilometers away, then you can believe that in the tourist season there is horror and disaster in this area. This does not mean that other investment roads must also stand. As a politician alone, I would not like to go to that part of the items, as one of my fellow Members said, as far as the Road Directorate is concerned, so that I can decide in the segment where state roads need to be maintained, patched up and also repaired. My dears, if you know little legislation, the responsible person in charge of road maintenance if he does not establish state roads in such a form that ensures safe driving for all road users is criminally and materially responsible. And I don't want politics to be the one to decide which road and which holes I'm talking about to maintain state roads to patch up, which I don't, and how to redistribute that money. This is a responsible job and I think it is also the work of experts and those who are employed there. But there is also a possibility that I do not rule out this money being spent in one way or another. However, even until something is proved to be true, officials must be respected and trusted to do so. However, I would like to emphasise, and I am sure that my fellow Member, Mirko Zamernik, will not hold back from saying that everything is not as black as he speaks. It is important that Comrade Mirko comes from the constituency, which is also my fellow Member, from the same election, from a colleague, Jakob Presečnik, who served as Minister of Transport in the previous term. My colleague Mirko, if we went to analyse some of the items that were provided, financial investments for that area, I think that quite a bit of money came into Light and into that environment, including with the help of my colleague the Presecnik and also with the help of you as a Member. I remember this because of the natural elementary accidents that affected the area that part of the funds came. Finally, I know, at least informally, that you are opening a very important road facility in a short time, that is the bridge in Lights, where you will have as many representatives of the government, and I hope that you will also then have to listen to those who are still in charge, to process them a little, and to put another tolar into the environment that I think needs to be heard and given your meaning.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u347	Thank you. Last one on the Replica list. [[...]] Excuse me, Comrade Viceroy, if you'll excuse me.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u348	Thank you very much. My friend Kangler pulled my tongue so hard, I had to answer. Far from me taking pictures of things so black, I don't know. The earlier implementation was then misinterpreted. It's true, it's not all black, but there's something you need to know, Comrade Kangler, and we haven't touched that problem. For eight years, I was mayor, and when we worked the road, which was municipal, it went regional, so it's state, it was a building factor of the municipal road with the same elements by 50% or more. And that's perfectly logical in the Roads Directorate. The Director of the Directorate said that this is perfectly normal, that you are performers, and I still claim, as I have been saying for eight years, that the performers are those who are quite paced and where things will be done and how they will be done and what prices will be set. Therefore, those who really need to be blown up and then we will be able to do much more with these means, which I agree are still too low, but with these too low resources, than we do now.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u349	Thank you. The last on the list of applicants is Ambassador Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u350	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, the House of Honor. The intensification of today's debate on the so-called transport amendments seems to me to be identical to the intensification of the debate when this High Council adopted an annual road map for 2005. The amendments proposed would support all amendments, but it is free of charge to support a few ten million Slovenian Tolars in order to solve a traffic problem before the tourist season, because we know how it works, what the procedures for broadcasting work are. No one, I think, has discussed today the state of the Minister of Mags. Christmas the Transport Ministry took over. It was about 29 billion Slovenian tolls. It's a fantastic financial hole. We would also like to see that on G13, Lendava-Murska Sobota-Maribor, the situation is not as dramatic as it is. My debate, I admit, is possible only a three-minute contribution to the loss of time, but a much more important, strategically important time was lost when discussions were held and discussions were held on the footing of the highway, which was not placed in time in the road construction plan. I wonder who was preparing Slovenia to enter Europe on 1 May 2004? Obviously, as far as traffic is concerned, as far as traffic is concerned, which is taking place today along the G13 road, we were not ready. For example, April 2004 at the border crossing Long you have 24 thousand trucks per month, today at the border crossing of the Long you are almost 100,000 trucks. Indeed, even the transport industry did not see this coming. The fact that we are coalition MPs is that we did not hope to table any amendments is not justified. However, I conclude this discussion by saying that I am an optimist and that with the steps that the Ministry has begun to take, we will be able to come up with better road solutions in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u351	Thank you. I ask if anyone wants a word about the amendments with the user of the Slovenian Directorate for Roads. No, no, no. Since no one wants to discuss this any more, we are moving on to the decision-making on the amendment of Ambassador Majde Potrat. The proposed amendment is not supported by the Government, and the original working body of the proposed amendment does not support it. I'm asking if anyone wants to explain their voice. No, no, no. That's how we vote. There are 60 Members present. The vote was 19 to 41. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number two, the same motioner, Ambassador Majda Potrat. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not support the proposed amendment, nor does the original working body of the proposed amendment support it. Anybody want to explain their voice? No, no, no. Then we move on to decision-making. 61 Members present, 22 votes in favour, 38 against. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under the number three candidates of Member Miran Potrč. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not support the amendment. The mother's working body supports the amendment. Anybody want to explain their voice? No, no, no. Then we move on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 66 Members present, 24 Members voted against 40. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to an amendment under order number 4 in the same user. He's Dr. Mark Pavlich's proposer. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not support the proposed amendment, nor does the original working body of the proposed amendment support it. Anybody want to explain their voice? No, no, no. Then we move on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 69 Members present, 24 Members voted against 44. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number 5. The motioner is Ambassador Geza Juban. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not support the amendment, the parent working body of the amendment does not support it. Anybody want to explain their voice? No, no, no. Then we move on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 68 Members present, with 22 Members voting against 42 Members. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number 6 of the proposal for a group of Members with the first-signed Jerič Milan. The original working body of the proposed amendment does not support it. Members of the Slovenian People's Party would like to be heard. The proposed amendment is not supported by the Government, and the original working body of the proposed amendment does not support it. Anybody want to explain their voice? Comrade Jerič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u352	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members, honourable Members, distinguished ministers, secretaries of state, a nice greeting on my behalf as well! I am pleased to support the first five amendments in this area and, of course, I will also be the 6th Amendment, 7, 18, and 19th, which we have tabled by the Members, who make up the so-called Club of Zava members, and, of course, all others from the Ministry of Transport or the user of the Slovenian Directorate for Roads. I am aware that the area of state roads is undervalued in this 2005 state budget balance and that the projects found in our amendments are undervalued. In the amendment, which I first signed, I would only touch two projects, namely the main roads of the Šentjakob-Zidani bridge, namely two sections of the Ribče-Litti and the Hrastnik-Zidani bridge. As far as the first section is concerned, Ribce-Litija, this road is, as far as the state road network or main roads are concerned, one of the more burdened is daily burdened with more than 10,000 vehicles per day, and in our opinion it is necessary to invest in this section or modernise as soon as possible, but not to drive this investment for a long period of time in view of the burden that it is, and given the logistical difficulties they have, I will say to the companies coming from this area. For comparison purposes only, factories in the area of Lithuania and Zasavje after this road section cannot be provided with logistical supplies, given that certain facilities on this road cannot bear a greater mezzanine burden. The second section is the section of the main road Hrastnik-Zidani bridge, on which we are building an industrial craft zone, a factory within this and, of course, I want Members to support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u353	Thank you. Voice explanation, Bogdan Barovich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u354	Thank you. The construction of the industrial trade zone takes place, what a respected colleague said, in agreement between the municipality of Trbovlje and the municipality of Hrastnik together. Together we have made a project, together we have invested our municipal resources and together we have used European funds, but of course logistics is the one that will connect us further. Once again, 25 kilometers of radius to the highway network. It is not irrelevant if the country has closed down the mine, if the state has closed down the machinery factory, if the country has closed down the heavy industry and introduced a new one - thank God, they are jobs. Let us do logistics, and in a large part you will also get rid of us in our cooperation. This day will be a great relief for the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u355	Thank you. Since there are no other speakers to explain our vote, we are moving to a vote. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 47. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to the amendment under order number 7 of the proposaler, a group of Members with the first-signed Bogdan Barovic. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not support the proposed amendment; the parent working body supports the proposed amendment. Anybody want to explain their voice? Comrade Barovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u356	Thank you. Dear colleagues. I will repeat very briefly what I said, this is one section of the state road in the old town centre of the municipality of Trbovlje, where there is also a school which poses a great danger to both children in school and for all carriers on the state road through Trbovlje. The project was included in at least 5 or 6 years of renovation, we went as I said, together with my colleagues slowly, gradually with steps. We won, we ordered projects, we booked municipal money and we took into account in the fight against billions 16 million 400 thousand dollars. If we do not get these in the Trbovlje municipality this moment for everything we have done, we will not get 88 according to plans and plans and programmes for 2006 and will not get any further, I think, over a few hundred to arrange the road in connection to the Prebold motorway. The thing about this country is how it's gonna handle it. Planned, planned, everything necessary is done. Of course, it's up to us, respected colleagues and colleagues. We've done what we had to do.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u357	Thank you. My colleague Zagorac has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u358	Thank you for your word, chairman. Your Honor! I will support the proposed amendment for two reasons. The first reason, this morning, when I was driving to work and listening to one of the radio stations where the darkness was just a busy road. And one of the employees at the Ministry of the Interior said, among other things, that the partial culprit for at least two fatalities was also the irregularity of the roads. I hope that at least in this case, in the case of the Members of the Government, humanity will prevail, not the "against" mechanism. The second reason is mainly the enlightenment I received from Member Horvath, who said how the Minister and the Transport Ministry found themselves in an unenviable situation when he took office and when we put some money into the ministry, I hope that we will help at least a little. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u359	Thank you. Is there any other explanation for the voice? If it's not, we're going to make a decision. We're voting. There were 72 Members present, 69 members voted against, 2 of them. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We continue to decide on the amendments, please, for peace in the Chamber, we are in the decision-making phase. Comrade Kangler, please be so close to the rest of the National Assembly and cooperate. We are in the amendment under order number 8, this is with the same user of the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads. The amendment is proposed by the Ambassador, Dr. Gaber Slavko. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not support the amendment, the parent working body of the amendment does not support it. Anybody want to explain their voice? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 72 Members present, 24 votes against 46. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number 9 of Ambassador Ljubo Germić. The original working body of the amendment does not support, and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not support the proposed amendment. Anybody want to explain their voice? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 70 Members present, 24 Members voted against 45. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We move to the vote on the amendment under order number 10 of the proposaler Happy Friend. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not support the proposed amendment. The parent of the proposed amendment does not support it. Anybody want to explain their voice? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 69 Members present, 26 Members voted against 43. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number 11 of Ambassador Dara Lavtiz Bebler. Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposed an amendment for support. The original working body of the proposed amendment does not support it. Anybody want to explain their voice? [[No, no, ……]] Well, then, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. 71 Members are present, 23 votes against 47. [[The vote was 23.]] [[47 versus.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're moving on to a 12-amendment decision. The proposaler is only Member Bevk. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not support the proposed amendment. The original working body of the proposed amendment does not support it. Anybody want to explain their voice? [[No, no, ……]] Then we move on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 70 Members present. 25 Members voted in favour, against 45 Members. (For the vote was 25.)(against 45.) It notes that the amendment has not been accepted. We're moving to the amendment under order number 13. The rapporteur is Mr Milan Petek. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not support the proposed amendment. The original working body of the proposed amendment does not support it. Anybody want to explain their voice? [[No, no, ……]] Then we go to the vote. We're voting. 71 Members are present. 25 Members voted in favour, against 46 Members. (For the vote was 25.)(against 46.) I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're moving to the amendment under order number 14. The proposaler is only Member Bevko. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not support the proposed amendment. The original working body of the proposed amendment does not support it. Anybody want to explain their voice? [[No, no, ……]] Then we move on to the vote. We're voting. There are 70 Members present. 25 Members voted against 45 Members [[..]] [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the proposed amendment has not been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number 15 of Commissioner Sam Bevk. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not support the proposed amendment. The original working body of the proposed amendment does not support it. Anybody want to explain their voice? [[No, no, ……]] Then we go to the vote. We're voting. There are 67 Members present, 21 Members voted in favour. Against 45 Members of Parliament. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Come on, 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to an amendment under order number 16 of the proposed Members' Group with the first signed Matjaz Han. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not support the proposed amendment. The original working body of the proposed amendment does not support it. Anybody want to explain their voice? [[No, no, ……]] Then I apologize. [[...]] My friend Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u360	Thank you. This is also one of the amendments tabled by our group, an informal group of Zava members. The calculation is in great detail for what should be completed and also done. Once again, you can see and proof of this is that it is not a political issue. This is about the work of the road programme, which is still important, I stress once again, but God forbid, any accidents, any connections, including all the logistics that takes place in this changing industrial zone. These parts are very important. These are not fictitious, these are real reconstructions and road renovations, so that logistics will run at any time, in any case, whatever, and let's hope that it doesn't happen, will happen. I appeal to my colleagues and colleagues and to all of them to support these amendments, which we have made together once again as a group, as friends, as people who have been real, who have had realistic views. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u361	Thank you. Anybody else want to explain their voice? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 20 Members voted against 46. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 46.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to the amendment under order number 17, proposed by Mr Samo Bevk. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not support the proposed amendment, nor does it support its parent working body. Anybody want to explain their voice? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 43. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the proposed amendment has not been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number 18. The proposal is a group of Members with the first signed Matjaz Han. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not support the proposed amendment, nor does it support the parent working body. Anybody want to explain their voice? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, with 18 votes against 47. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to the amendment under order number 19, the candidate is a group of Members with a first-signed Matjaz Han. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not support the proposed amendment, nor does it support the parent working body. Anybody want to explain their voice? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 48. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We're moving on to the 20th amendment. It's just Bevk. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not support the proposed amendment, nor does the original working body of the proposed amendment support it. Anybody want a word to explain their voice? Mr. Bevk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u362	Thank you very much. Because from the amendment it's not clear which road it's on, let me say it's a Solkan bypass. At the 10th amendment, with the same content, the amendment of a colleague of Friend was rejected, now you have the opportunity to correct the exam. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u363	Thanks for the heads-up. Anybody else want some? Mrs. Pechanova, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u364	I would just like to ask a fellow coastal Member and other coastal Members to give their vote in this province 'yes' because I think you know this area well enough to know that the solar bypass is one of the most urgent investments in this move. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u365	All further debaters, within the framework of the institution of explanation of the parliamentary vote, would like to be guided by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and the Explanatory Notes [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u366	I will vote in favour, Mr President.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u367	tell us what are the reasons that you have been cited either for or against and do not invite another Member in the context of the institution of questions sent. [[..]] We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number 20. We're voting. There are 68 Members present, 25 Members voting against 41 Members. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to an amendment decision under order number 21. The proposal is a group of Members with the first signed Matjaz Han. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not support the proposed amendment, nor does the original working body of the proposed amendment support it. Anybody want to explain their voice? No, no, no. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 68 Members present, 20 votes in favour against 47 Members. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not supported. Therefore, we are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number 22. He is a member of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not support the proposed amendment, nor does the original working body of the proposed amendment support it. Anybody want to explain their voice? No, no, no. Then that's what we're going to do. We're voting. There are 69 Members present, 21 Members voting against 47 Members. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have thus concluded with amendments to the users of the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Road and are moving on to the debate on amendments to the user's Ministry of Environment and Space. That is why I am putting all the amendments under this item into discussion. Who wants to discuss it? The debate is possible on two amendments. Given that no one wants to debate, I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. I am putting an amendment to the vote under order number one, the proposaler is the Social Democrats' Group of Members. Anybody want to explain their voice? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, with 18 votes against 47. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. For consideration and acceptance, I am putting an amendment under order number 2 of the same motioner, the Social Democrats' Group of Members. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not support the proposed amendment, nor does it support the parent working body. Anybody want to explain their voice? Mrs. Roach, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u368	I'll vote in favour. The reason, however, is this - so that the President will finally be satisfied with the discussions that are in the national assembly. I will vote in favour of this because it is a housing construction which, after all the statistics and other data in Slovenia, is a highly undernourished economic sector, we know that there is a multiplier factor, one of the highest of all activities in the state economy. At the same time, with 100 million tolars, to the extent envisaged in this amendment, it is said that four times the amount of the first amendment is less likely to build or restore apartments. However, every tolar in housing is extremely important. And I invite other Members and Members to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u369	Thank you. Anybody else want to explain their voice? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 17 votes against 45. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. In the debate, I am putting amendments to the budget user of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, namely, the first set of amendments to the sub-programme to increase employment, namely the four amendments. I am opening a debate on all four proposed amendments. I'm asking you to sign up. Member of the Run, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u370	Thank you very much. I would also like to warn colleagues and colleagues who have been kind enough to consider that amendments concerning roads are important when they are being tabled by opposition Members this time. It is our desire to increase investment in human factor as well. [[...]] [[Back-up advertising.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u371	Allow me, please, to speak to Comrade Potsch.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u372	What's wrong? May I continue? I'm sorry, I realize it wasn't my fault, but thank you so much anyway. I would like to draw attention to this and to ask Members and Members of the coalition to support in a small number some amendments in the area of resources in relation to amendments relating to the Ministry of Labour, the family and social affairs for the people. It is our proposal that active employment and investment policies, human resources and human resources, be allocated more resources. I believe that many of the current coalition have talked about this, talked about even development, talked about degraded regions, talked about the need to provide additional resources to address employment problems. There is a small opportunity for us to resolve some of these issues and problems in these amendments as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u373	Thank you. The next on the list of applicants is Ambassador Capuder.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u374	Thank you. I myself will not support the proposed amendments for the following reasons. Let me first stop at an active employment policy. These funds increase by more than 20% from 17.2 to about 20 billion and should also be considered to have decreased by 2%. I therefore wonder if such an increase would have been possible if it had been adopted with the proposed amendments. You're also putting in an amendment to the breed. Given that there are currently so many funds earmarked as is expected to be spent, I do not think that this amendment needs to be supported. The third set of amendments, which I will not support, are amendments that propose increasing funds for mothers' homes. Homes have the amount of money as determined by the invitation to tender in October 2004. And if that was the way it was planned, then gentlemen of the opposition must prescribe it for themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u375	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? It's an emissary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u376	Thank you so much for saying that. I wouldn't even go to the debate if I wasn't encouraged by the speaker in front of me. In fact, he was talking about how maternity homes do not need additional funding in the context of the budget rebalancing. Please, the safe house or facilities that help victims, such as others, are not included in this series of maternity homes. However, most of the victims are women and children. Do you know what it means to be a victim, especially to speak for the child? Last time, I was appalled when I heard from the ruling coalition that children represent the weakest member of the family. I will certainly support all the amendments that fall within the framework of this sub-programme to increase employability. There's something else I'd like to mention. The balance of the budget shall be abolished or reduced in the area of active employment policy. In the area of aid to the unemployed, and not least in the field of assistance to new companies, or in the name of employability, new companies. I will support all the amendments mentioned above.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u377	Thank you. Here you go, Comrade Germich.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u378	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Today, too, we have heard a lot of comments, opinions, including on the topic of an active employment policy, from which many words were heard, how money in the field of active employment policy has been used inadvertently, ineffectively, that, of course, it has often landed this money somehow in the areas of political botts and still we have heard today. Therefore, it would be very good to hear Mr Minister here with us to explain to us whether these are the real reasons why resources are shrinking by almost 10% here in the field of active employment policy. As we follow the explanations for the individual sub-programmes, we see that in the textual part of this area, in fact, there is much weightier emphasis, but when we look at the numerical reinforcements of this content, things are different. However, when we talk about somehow not trusting everything that has been done in this area, it is very concerned about the very large reduction in the item that speaks of monitoring, monitoring and evaluation of labour market programmes, because what we can expect in the future, if the system that has been in force so far, which has been built for several years, does not apply, but at the same time you will reject all possible in-depth studies of what is today that we can monitor one of the very important foundations of the Lisbon Strategy, that is employment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u379	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[No, no, ……]] Excuse me, Minister Petty Officer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u380	Thank you so much for saying that. Thank you very much for the question or open dilemmas you have raised. As already a Member of Parliament, Mr Capuder, mentioned that, in essence, there is around 20% more funding for active employment policy than in the previous year, but it is still worth stressing that unemployment has decreased by about two percent, a little less. This means that money is available and, of course, we are also wondering about the absorption capacity of all those institutions that are implementing an active employment policy. Can so many people accept and implement programs? This, of course, concerns us the most, so we believe that there is enough money, even in terms of the resources spent in the past year, because the previous government coalition has also faced the same issues. You have to have performers on the one hand. On the other hand, you have to have the appropriate unemployed people you send to the programs. Funding, and in particular the one-off payments of larger amounts, have been changed by means of a form of protection so as not to lose state resources. Sometimes it's not a reason for them to decide on this, some speculative intentions, but some of them are running out of breath. But you can't go to projects that you're not sure they're going to go through. The evaluation of the labour market will be carried out. But we think it can be done in a more rational way. We have a lot of institutions and we would like to find out in a neutral way what programmes are going, what programmes achieve effects and which ones are not. And in this sense, it is the task of the Government to provide information to both the public and the national assembly, as is the case with these programmes, which are effective and which are not effective. In doing so, it should be stressed that this is changing, the effectiveness of programmes, also depending on the situation in the labour market, when to speed up young job seekers and when to stay.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u381	Thank you, Minister. To my word, I invite Ambassador Mikolić.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u382	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Germič notes that the system, which has been built for several years, is not in force today. As mayor, I would like to explain what has been wrong in recent years with regard to this system of active employment policy, given that we have somehow been involved with the municipalities. There is no way that I can defend the money-sharing system, or on the basis of calls for proposals for active employment policy, where other institutions could have applied among the other local communities. And when someone got a positive conclusion that they could do this, and it was going around the number, say, 50 or 100 million, we know that this is an area of human resources where those unemployed could be included in education, especially education. But unfortunately, what was the final result - this is what I explained earlier - we also read in the means of public information how it was in various areas of the Republic of Slovenia that I would not speak about Prekmurje but also about other parts, including Kozjanska. I believe and strongly support the government that it has taken certain measures here and that the money will be strictly devoted to all that is actually justifiable. With regard to these matters, which have occurred in the past, where a lot of money was intended only for certain programmes to be implemented by certain institutions, which have also received a licence on some previous invitation to tender to do so, and this is also, I must tell you, unfortunately, a lot of things have been agreed in advance. I will certainly not support this, and I am glad that I do not have to support it today, because the Minister has otherwise approached the resolution of these matters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u383	Thank you. I give my word to Mrs. Squire.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u384	Thank you very much again for your word. Well, I will once again - and this time I will refer to a minister who has made a very optimistic statement about what has happened and what will happen this year or, in particular, with the balance of the budget that we are considering and adopting today. I believe that unemployment has decreased as a percentage. But what does a percentage reduction in unemployment mean? In fact, the Ministry has taken a very positive approach specifically to this budget rebalancing, which concerns accounting for revenue from various EU funds. It is interesting, given that neither the financial perspective for the future or the future period within the EU has yet been set. Last but not least, I'm interested in another very important thing. In the Slovenian National Party, before Slovenia's entry into the EU, we drew attention to the large number of unemployed, new unemployed, due to the non-competitiveness of Slovenian companies within the EU. Today we are much closer to that fact. 40,000 new unemployed are also mentioned in the media. I ask the Minister: Where is the plan under this budget rebalancing, given that the funds are falling for the unemployed? I hope I get some answers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u385	Thank you. Member Germich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u386	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Of course, Mr Mikolić, the facts are that measures have been taken in recent years and that we have to see a steady reduction in unemployment. And the questions addressed to the Minister came from the fear that this trend would not turn in the other direction. And given that we will not have the evaluation and study of existing programmes to reduce funds on existing programmes, there is a fear that this trend and trend may arise. It is concerned that resources are being reduced in areas that would entail additional training, raise educational structures and, of course, increase competition in the labour market for an individual. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u387	Thank you. Member Zagorac has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u388	Thank you for your word, chairman. I come from an environment where unemployment is still problem number one. This is Maribor, Styria and partly Prekmurje, not least not long ago we know that another textile giant has caused another 350 unemployed people. It also seems that the latter was to be moved to the so - called Maribor Melje. This is specifically Henkel, who is moving from Maribor and also there I think there will be about 240 additional unemployed people, so I simply cannot accept the fact that the government is in the balance, I will say, cutting funds into employment programmes. However, I would like to know if you are already taking money from new employment programmes, what is the government policy on new employment or creating a favourable environment for businesses that we know will then hire new people or whether any tax reform is being prepared, what is a more favourable tax policy for companies that will hire new people. Above all, I am interested in this area, as I said, Styria and Prekmurje, where unemployment is still problem number 1 and has not yet been stopped by any government. As I said, companies are failing one after another. There will be more unemployed people in Maribor slowly than there will be employees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u389	Thank you. Member Happy Friend has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u390	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear ministers, distinguished colleagues, colleagues! The government is politely said in this area of macehovska and we do not understand in the Slovenian National Party such a attitude towards such a problem. As my fellow Member Barbara has already said, we can expect an additional 40,000 unemployed people to be admitted to the institution with April data. Of course, it is absurd that we do not create new added value, that we do not have enough power to invest money in development programmes and anticipate budgetary resources. But it's not the only absurdity. We have been able to see in the public and the media that this same government is deciding to essentially stimulate the economy abroad rather than the economy at home. We put it ourselves, I personally asked the Member State why the development toll does not invest in perspective domestic economies and thus create new jobs. But to this day, I have not received an answer. I hope that they will do something smart to find reasonable arguments on this issue. And as I said before, an even greater wave of unemployment is anticipated. We see that, in fact, there is considerable demand from Eastern countries for our jobs, which, if we also had a smarter education, could be occupied by our prospective workers. What's here before us is absolutely absurd to me. He is taking such small funds and it will also be appropriate to increase the number within a year when we discuss the consequences of what will undoubtedly be adopted today. I'll be alone against that kind of decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u391	Thank you, Member Friend. Ambassador Rugelj, did you sign up? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u392	Thank you for your word. A number of debaters here have said that our economy is uncompetitive and therefore we have a lot of unemployment. But no one wonders what the cause of this non-competitiveness is. I have already stressed here many times that it is the cause of non-competitiveness, and I will now stress again, in fact, in too much public consumption, and I ask you to take this into account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u393	Thank you. The debate by Ambassador Zguinerev.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u394	Thank you very much. A colleague wonders where the reasons for non-competitiveness are. The budget balance on page 157 clearly states that the Ministry takes two billion Slovenian tolls for creating new jobs and increasing business flexibility. Here, my dear fellow, is also the reason that we Slovenians are uncompetitive within the European Union. How, I ask the Minister again, will Slovenian companies be able to adapt?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u395	Thank you. It's a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u396	A little replica. What is in the current budget does not affect our state of unemployment.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u397	Anybody else want to discuss this? I ask again, does anyone else want to discuss it? Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u398	Thank you very much. I guess I have to explain this one more time. By 20%, resources increase compared to consumption in 2004 and slightly decrease in the case of a plan adopted two years ago. Once again, I stress something about the provision of money from European programmes, which is replaced by what is provided from the domestic budget. About the mother's homes. Homes were plotted, including consumption. Last year, even at the time of the previous government, the call was made. To this extent, funds have also been provided for the implementation of the programmes. The Ministry of Labour is co-funding. And whatever was done, that's how we provided the funds. However, I can point out that there are still several vacancies in the mother's homes. Of course, we wonder if the problem will be more difficult to open a new home. However, it should be pointed out that it is better, if there are maternity homes, to install those who are in any way ill-treated or neglected or abused, that they are not installed or that they are not provided with a space near the violent one. I think it's better if they move to some other place, so they don't have to meet unloved people or anything like that. How's the government going? Implementation of social protection programmes, an increase of 3 billion 677 million. Then social protection of the materially threatened, programs to help families, the same. The government is increasing funds for these purposes. But you can spend your money quickly. Take a look at some of these big projects, where hundreds of millions didn't go, but billions went. We also discussed this in the case of Elan, where the story is not yet concluded, where managers cut close to 3 billion tolars. Therefore, we are extremely careful about projects such as one-off payments. I hope I made myself clear.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u399	Another person would like to discuss, under the sub-programme, an increase in employability in relation to the four amendments tabled. Since I don't see a wish, we're moving on to a decision on the amendments. We will vote first on the amendment under order number 1. Speaker of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not support the proposed amendment, nor does the original working body of the proposed amendment support it. Anybody want to explain their voice? Comrade Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u400	On behalf of the Group of Members, I will present the position that we will support this amendment. We regret that the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs here is misleading. Why? In fact, the Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs says that the government, which has spent or estimated that it needs for some, will say 10% less than planned in the 2005 budget balance, still intends, as stated on page 1296, to achieve the employment of all unemployed young people who have not found employment within six months of the start of unemployment. Even more, the government claims that by 20 percent, from 6 percentage points to 5 percentage points or 20 percent, it will reduce the unemployment rate. I mean, Mr Minister and Members and Members of Parliament that, of course, this is simply not possible. The government reduces the incentives for education and employment training by one third, reduces the incentives for unemployed people by more than 10 per cent and reduces the incentives for employers to create new jobs and employ more difficult people by 50 per cent. We want you to support this amendment. Together, we want to find that active employment policy has been one of the key reasons why the Republic of Slovenia is a high level of employment compared to the other Member States of the European Union in the upper half of the countries with employment rates, so we have a high level of employment. We believe that there are incentives for the employment of unemployed people, with whom we are only returning the programme to the level of resources as set out in the 2003 budget and that we are doing so. Of course, the problem is that the government should change all long-term programmes, especially long-term employment programmes by 2006, the national labour market and employment development programme, because, of course, the objectives that are written here are still the same objectives, Mr Minister, as recorded in 2003, only your co-workers have transferred the "copy pasta" issues, unfortunately with less resources you will not be able to implement. It is not possible to reduce unemployment by one third. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u401	Thank you. Anybody else want to explain their voice? If we don't, we're going to the vote. We're voting. 62 Members are present. 19 Members voted in favour, against 42 Members. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number two. He is a member of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not support the proposed amendment. The original working body of the proposed amendment does not support it. Anybody want to explain their voice? [[No, no, ……]] Comrade Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u402	In this amendment, I would like to point out to the Minister that the reason why we will support this amendment concerns the Government of the Republic of Slovenia's explanation on page 1303 of the rapporteur, where the Government says that under the national labour market and employment development programme by 2006, as one of the priority objectives, there is also an education aspect at the level so that the proportion of the active population without a completed vocational school falls below 25%. Also the new European guidelines for employment policy, your colleagues say, I hope that you are still saying that when you travel across Europe, the targets set by 2010 increase the proportion of adults between 25 and 64 years from at least IV levels of education to 80% or more. It is impossible to do so by limiting the resources you have decided on this budget item. You cannot reduce this programme from a billion and a half by 500 million and at the same time argue that you will achieve these goals of the so-called 10,000 plus school year 2005/2006 and beyond. The problem, of course, is that if there is no other problem in this budget, the explanation of the budget, which is an integral part of the budget under the Public Finance Act, and the figures are not accurate. And you have to decide what you vote on. If you vote for the amendment, then you will support what the government has written and sent to the National Assembly. But if you refuse to do so, 1,500 pages of explanation is unnecessary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u403	Thank you. Mr Germić applied to explain the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u404	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. The reduction in resources under this heading for a third is the fact that when we talk about the labour market and working conditions, when measures are intended to focus on stronger employment growth and unemployment reduction, statistics show that unemployment is 24.5%, that unemployment is 44.5% over 50 years of age and that 41% of the unemployed have no education. And if we look at what this content is intended for, it is about ensuring that the individual has access to the appropriate knowledge or that he acquires the appropriate education he needs to find and obtain the appropriate employment. If we are going to reduce this value so drastically that we are going to raise the educational level of the Slovenian population, then we must be aware of what will be today's message if we vote against such an amendment, which is returning these funds at the planned level for 2005. I therefore propose that we make this effort by voting in favour of this amendment to listen to those who want to take the destiny of finding a new job into their own hands, helping them to enter educational programmes to raise their education, to become competitive in the labour market and thus to regulate their own social status. That is why I will support the proposed amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u405	Thank you. Given that I do not see any more speakers for explanations of vote, we are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number 2. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 17 votes against 41. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 41.]] We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number 3, the candidate is the Group of Members of the Social Democrats. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not support the proposed amendment, nor does it support the parent working body. Anybody want to explain their voice? [[No, no, ……]] Comrade Squeakle, I would really like you to raise your hand up next time and not just point your finger at me. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u406	This is an amendment by the Social Democrats' Group of Members, and it is, of course, a substantive intervention in the same area. The issue is that the government has decided to reduce for one third the money allocated to unemployed first-time job seekers and, among them, the promotion of the employment of disabled and unemployed persons and especially vulnerable groups of unemployed persons. Among them, Mr Minister, page 1003 Rapporteurs, you have signed this, Roma, over 50 years old, persons with first and second years of vocational education, etc. It is that you have decided to reduce the employment programme of those for whom there is one book on how to get the money of the European Union by one third, even running for funding. However, you will not succeed because simply the Republic of Slovenia has decided to reduce these funds by one third. We regret that you have proposed this, we regret that you have signed this, but we understand that, of course, after the Minister of Finance surprised you with the fact that for so many and so many billion you have to cut assets, what else you didn't know. It is a pity that you have decided to limit the resources for the employment of unemployed persons, it is a pity that you are doing this on active employment policy programmes, which are a key reason why we have managed to bring unemployment to one of the lowest in the European Union in the last 10 years.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u407	Thank you. Since I no longer see the desire to explain our vote, we are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number 3. We're voting. 61 Members and Members were present, with 18 votes in favour and 40 votes in favour. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number 4, which is also the last under the sub-programme to increase employment, namely the amendment of the drafters of the Social Democrats Group. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not support the proposed amendment, nor does the original working body of the proposed amendment support it. Anybody want to explain their voice? [[No, no, ……]] My friend Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u408	We will support the amendment for the above-mentioned reason, only that here is the characteristic that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is in conflict with what it says on paper, where it says that in 2005, 10 000 people will be involved in this programme, in fact, allowing funding for only 5,000 people. Five thousand people from companies that could be involved in this program will simply say no. This is the content of your proposal. Our amendment returns this so that, as you sent to the European Union and confirmed it in 2005, 10,000 150 people could be included in this programme. This will also mean that in 2006 this programme will not involve 11 000 200 people, but maybe 5,000 to 6,000 people, and this of course means some 10,000 family members and major problems in individual regions of the Republic of Slovenia. We therefore propose that you support Members and Members of the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u409	We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 60 Members present, 16 votes against 42. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 42.]] We have thus concluded the vote under the sub-programmes of increasing employability. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under the sub-programme to create new jobs and to increase the flexibility of businesses within the framework of the user, the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. Under this sub-programme, the National Assembly will meet only one amendment, namely the drafter of the Social Democrats Group. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not support the proposed amendment. The original working body of the proposed amendment does not support it. Anybody want to explain their voice? I apologize, we are opening a debate under the sub-programme. Who's applying to the debate? [[Nobody.]] We're moving on to decision-making. Who wants to explain their voice? Member of the Party, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u410	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Drobnic has said quite a few words today. In spite of all this, I might even conclude that Mr Petty Officer is of a kind, I will say, a humorist. It is market-oriented, but I believe it is, and I am convinced that social value cannot be traded in this way. In particular, in this chapter, I would like to point out once again what I have already stressed. The facts are different, Mr. Secretary. In the context of the unemployed, funds are being taken in the budget balance for a good billion, for the development of new regional projects for the good of 2 million and 209 million, I apologize for training and education for the employment of 503 million and a few thousand tolars. And last but not least, Mr Minister, what kind of minister are you, in fact, when we want to help you or your ministry, to give additional resources to make it easier for you to work, and you are rejecting all of this vehemently. Of course, I will support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u411	Mrs Zgajnereva, allow me to use the debate through which Mr Minister will be able to answer you another time if you have a question for Mr Minister. At the time of the vote, the Minister does not have this right. As you probably know, the Minister doesn't even have the right to vote. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment, the only amendment to the sub-programme for creating new jobs. Anybody want to explain their voice? [[No, no, ……]] Then we vote. There are 64 Members present, 19 Members voted against 42. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a discussion on the sub-programme for the preservation, reconstruction and construction of monuments. Under this sub-programme, the National Assembly will meet with two amendments. I'm opening a debate on both amendments. Who wants to discuss it? The Party of the Squires.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u412	I will try to be as specific as possible in this amendment as possible, and I will appoint all those parliamentary groups that have tabled it: the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Nova Slovenija, the Slovenian People's Party Group and, last but not least, the Group of the Democratic Party of Retired Persons. Why did I list and, above all, highlight the last Group of Members? Because it's an obviously equalizing amendment or more. I will say the extermination of those who have fought for freedom and even indirectly, I will say, make sure that today the Slovenians live in a free country. This amendment is actually an extermination, but I'm going to say morally controversial. It is also morally controversial that, months ago, specifically in Parliament, we tabled a law in the parliamentary procedure, a law on disabled persons of war. And the government, the same government that drafted the contested law, is today trying to ensure through the budget rebalancing, in fact, what it was in some way trying to ensure by the law. We will not support the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party of the First Amendment, which has been tabled by the coalition groups mentioned above.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u413	Thank you. Does anyone else want to discuss it? Mr. Znidarsich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u414	On behalf of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, I must say that we will support this amendment for a simple reason. Because we're for the war graves to be arranged. And that takes the money that's missing there. This, of course, has nothing to do with Mrs Tavsheva's comment that the amendment should be directed at those who fought for anything. This amendment has nothing to do with it. But she must have understood the heading from which to take it completely wrong. It is about reducing the transfer rate for victims of war violence, which means nothing more than the expectation that there will be some resources left there. As the number of admissions to rights under these laws has fallen dramatically at a time when the threat of applications for recognition of status has been resolved over the last four years and is significantly lower at a time when the funds, the planned funds, have grown by the growth rate, i.e. inflation and so on. So it's not about any attack on the rights of victims of war violence. Moreover, if there is a shortage of money or other reasons, this money will have to be in line with all laws, including the law on the implementation of the budget, provided by the budget reserve. As a result, no beneficiary under those laws will be harmed. That is why the attack in this sense is actually completely depressed and we must reject it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u415	Thank you. Member Barovic has the floor. It's a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u416	I didn't attack anyone. All I said was bare facts. I am afraid, Mr Žnidaršič, that your expectations of this are too high, such as the excessive expectations of the budget's balance, at least by the government. However, I would like to stress once again, and on purpose I have not touched another amendment under the same sub-programme, which is not disputed by the SNS because it takes it from an item that is not disputed. We are in the SNS for the reconstruction and construction of monuments, but not in the way of equivalence or worse, destruction.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u417	We continue the debate. The next reported is colleague Barovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u418	I'll tell you what, because my colleague just said the point. In the Slovenian National Party, we will prove that we are in favour of preserving and renewing the markings. We are for this, but we cannot and will not support in any way the funds under item 20, social protection, irrespective of the reasons, unfortunately. We have also pointed out on the parent’s working body that many times these explanations are so weak and so vague that we may at times argue over the back of the shadow. The proof that we are the hallmarks of all those who have given their lives will be that the other amendment, which will be covered by social protection, item 20, does not take the money, will also be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u419	Thank you. My colleague Bevk has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u420	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! I don't think it's hygienic politically to take money from war invalids, veterans and victims of war violence. That is why I will not support the first amendment of the coalition parliamentary groups, but will support the second amendment, the parliamentary club of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u421	Thank you. Member of the Run, you have the floor. [[Back-up advertising.]] My friend Lucky Friend.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u422	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues! I'd love to do it this time. I'll be really happy to do it against the first amendment. Indeed, the pietae to the dead certainly do, but not in this way, when we see that in fact, something that is too rich is wanted to do. Look at these items, how big they are! I think the markings are already being carried out in these places, they say they are being carried out to essentially bury the dead. However, the facts are different. Winners in World War II, today's fighters, I don't know if Mr Drobnic has already given them any legal means, what he should have given them this year. Until recently, they have received nothing, almost nothing of the budget that they are legally entitled to. Are we going to have some kind of amendment for that, too? Maybe tomorrow, after tomorrow?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u423	Thank you. The debate was opened by Minister Drobnič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u424	Thank you very much. It's also worth saying a few words. The first amendment ensures the maintenance of graves, as stated in item 6661, 40 million. And second item 7197, which also means maintenance of partisan graves. If you choose the second amendment, there will be no partisan grave maintenance. However, as regards the provision of funds for the payment of these rights, the following shall apply. Nothing will be taken from anyone because they are recognised rights and all payments must be secured. If not, from the budget reserve. No one's going to get squished. But it's about how exactly we plan the funds. From your point of view, although the interpretation is not truly ideological, it is more appropriate the first amendment because it ensures the maintenance of all graves. If you make a decision, then you'll make a decision in this direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u425	Thank you. We have thus concluded the debate on both amendments in the Sub-programme Conservation, Reconstruction and Construction of Monuments. We're moving on to a decision on the first amendment. The candidates are the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the New Slovenia Group, the Slovenian People's Party's Group and the Democratic Party's Group of Retired Persons. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not support the proposed amendment. The proposed amendment supports the mother's working body. Anybody want to explain their voice? Member of the Run.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u426	Thank you very much. I will not support this amendment. If the government and the amendment's proponents sincerely wanted to preserve the partisan graves, they would not have reduced the resources of the NOB Association of Fighters for a third of their money to maintain the partisan graves. And I would trust the amendment's motions that they do not intend to reduce funds for war disabled persons, veterans and victims of war violence if they did not know well the law prepared by the Minister for Family, Work and Social Affairs concerning changes in rights for disabled persons, because, contrary to the Constitution, he wanted to significantly reduce all invalidity during the night and even equalize the rights to disability with work in the regular working relationship of disabled persons. That's why I don't believe this, and I won't support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u427	Thank you. Mr Moge has an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u428	Thank you so much for saying that. I will not support this amendment myself. The first part is good and I would love to support it, even because of this, because we know about the dead that we say nothing but good, and that inscription sometimes on the monument "Sit Tibi terra levis" - let the earth be easy for you, is also more than self-respect for the one who rests under it. Monuments have a symbolic meaning. And, gentlemen, this amendment also has a symbolic meaning. It is said that when we divided one billion and a few billion money, the government and members of the ruling coalition could not find another item, as if they had taken away the disabled, and they went after the veterans and committed themselves to the victims of war violence. I think every comment here is superfluous. That is why I will not support this amendment because it is offensive to these categories.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u429	Ambassador Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u430	We will support this amendment in New Slovenia. Once again, we can see how the arguments in these matters mean nothing at all. We speak each of our own and the essence is that, despite these Latin rivers that we have been listening to all day, we are actually far from some democratic standards for a whole light year. Last time I listened with interest to Tinet Hribar, who in one of the TV shows Under the headlights described very nicely what Slovenians should do. And on that occasion, he said that Neanderthals had already buried the dead and maintained the graves. And we're still arguing about whether or not we're gonna fix the graves. That's right, it's not an honor to this national council. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u431	Here you go. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u432	Thank you very much. At today's meeting, we have heard many times that the opposition with the amendments is returning the items to the previous level, i.e. to the level of the already adopted budget. This is one such intervention, because it is necessary to say that the current government, if I may say so, has made one financial hole and now we are returning with amendments. As far as I know, I think it's on the exact number where it was previously in the existing budget. That's why I don't understand this kind of opposition, but if you've been putting amendments all the time on all the 25 pages you've been going back and forth to the previous level. That's why I'm going to support the amendment under number one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u433	My friend Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u434	I will not support amendment number one, not because the coalition has found that the government has made a mistake, but because the source for this amendment is inadequate. We cannot from the social protection programme of the victims of war violence, where the Minister has reduced the line by just 136 million, now to 67 million, by explaining that there is a budget reserve in one way or another. Mr Minister, the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Law on Public Finance prohibits something that can be deleted and drawn from the budget reserve. This will be explained to you at the Ministry of Finance when you reach them for 67 million. That's how we have some diversion here, Mr President, and that's why we can't support the amendment. If you really brought this back to the level and, for example, took it back from an item that was raised for 380 million, and these are structures and so on at the Ministry of Defence, because it is not even explained exactly why this will be used, a source that is in the second amendment would, of course, speak consistently. However, as we have heard today, it is no big deal if we are running out of 67 million, because we have a budget reserve, whether it is a misappropriation or a lack of knowledge of the rules of procedure of the National Assembly or of the law on public finances. The minister will face it sooner or later, but this is usually the case at the end of the year when ministers try to shut something down and find that their subordinates have forgotten to tell them what this is all about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u435	For all future debaters in this sub-programme, and for the following, I would ask that you stick to the Rules of Procedure when you speak in terms of the meaning or content of the debate and when you speak in terms of explanations of vote. As you may have noticed, all the presidents today are extremely or strictly careful that we give you, allow for an opportunity both in the substantive debate and in the explanations of vote. So I'd like to ask you to keep this up. Given that there are no further applications for explanations of vote, we are moving on to a decision on the first amendment. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, with 44 votes against 17. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 17.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We move on to the amendment under order number two. He is a member of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not support the proposed amendment. The original working body of the proposed amendment does not support it. Anybody want to explain their voice? Mr. Mogue.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u436	Thank you very much. I will certainly support this amendment, for it challenges what has already been said many times today. It has been said that we do not want the graves to be arranged and that we speak Latin all day: two complete nonsensees in this debate. However, I think it is extremely clever, respected colleagues and colleagues, if you look at the second part of the budget from which it is taken, these are the structures and infrastructure of the Ministry of Defence. And if we confirm that, perhaps Mr. Minister will use his business car more in the future and the driver paid by the state than by the helicopter. It's 40 million tolars. If you have previously had a moral obligation to settle this, be a man of the word now and give these 40 million tolars to arrange graves, such as Teharje, Kočevski horn, Tezno near Maribor and other such graves.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u437	Member of the Run, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u438	Thank you very much. I'll support the amendment. I think it is right to provide the necessary funds for the management of these graves after a partial deadlock. I personally believed that the conditions for regulating these graves existed, if not entirely financial, but at least substantively from two years ago, when we adopted the War Cemetery Act, but it seems that I was in deep error and now we are reopening the debate, some of us say that because it is not possible, but some of us argue that because we want to otherwise, at the expense of the present, also to regulate past mistakes and graves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u439	Thank you. Member Brenčič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u440	Thank you very much. By voting on the previous amendment, after my knowledge of things, the purpose of returning the necessary funds has been settled where, at least for my relations, an unreasonable fall has been arranged. And I don't really understand what we should put this $40 million into, because the budget requirement, and the law behind it, is enough with the previous amendment, no matter how much we lost somewhere else. That is why I do not intend to vote on this amendment, or I will abstain, because I think it is irrelevant because we have accepted the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u441	The notice for all, the possible immateriality of this amendment has not informed us of the legislative and legal service, is under review by the amendment and will, of course, be decided on. However, he does have a word or explanation for his vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u442	Thank you very much. The legislative and regulatory services have not notified the immateriality of this amendment, because if this amendment is adopted, then the harmonisation amendment will have to agree on what will be the source: the military or the victims of war violence. Although this could already be invested, anyone else, the mother’s working body would have prepared it, but the mother’s working body was not able to prepare it. This is actually how we decide today on this second amendment, whether we are earmarking money for graves, and are we actually taking the source to the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia at the above mentioned construction and infrastructure item, which has increased by 380 million in budget - Mr. Minister, right? And that 380 million is obviously too much, because the money has already begun to be wasted irrationally. That is why we have estimated in the Liberal Democracy Club that we can reduce 40 million here. If you support the content of this amendment, the source can be replaced by harmonisation. But if you don't, you'll be taking it from the victims of war violence and allowing it to continue its irrational use of the MOR. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u443	My friend Bajc.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u444	Thank you, Vice President. Part of what the predecessors had in mind was what I was going to say. However, given that I supported the previous amendment signed by all coalition parties and that this amendment provides for the same purpose on the expenditure side and changes on the revenue side, and, as I believe, in presenting the opinion of the Slovenian People's Party's Group on the entire budget balance, this is the area it is taking. And here we said that it was just a fraction of those billions that were supposed to be taken by the Ministry of Defence. I was convinced, however, that the resources that we had used in the previous amendment on the expenditure side would not be spent this year. And since it is a matter of marriage and, by chance, if it comes, I think that there is every possibility that these obligations will eventually be covered by the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs in 2005. So, I'm going to object to the adoption of the amendment under order number two.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u445	Just to clarify the situation. If both amendments were adopted, it would be easy to add up to the same item, i.e. 40 plus 40, and thus confirm the debate of some Members that the amendment under number 2 is not irrelevant. And to explain his voice, he signed up for the last one, according to my list, Mr Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u446	We will not support this amendment because it is no longer necessary. I would also say this if we supported all the amendments tabled by the LDS and DS in such a way as to try to take the money from the General Staff of the Slovenian Army, then tomorrow the General Staff of the Slovenian Army could be disbanded.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u447	We have thus concluded with explanations of vote. We move to the vote on amendment number two. We're voting. There are 67 Members present, 19 votes against 46. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 46.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. The National Assembly will move to a decision on the amendment of the sub-programme of the Programme of Veteran Organisations, namely, the proposaler of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not support that amendment, nor does it support the parent working body. I am opening a debate on this amendment. Comrade Kontic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u448	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the ministerial assembly, how much he is present in the hall! I will, of course, support this amendment. Believe me, I know the efforts of all district committees, interstate unions and whatever their names are, in my work. And within this activity is what has already been mentioned today, including the restoration and maintenance of monuments. And given that the previous amendment had been adopted to care for the maintenance of the monuments, it would be right for those funds that had been withdrawn to return to this item. Indeed, the pressure of one of the coalition parties was part of the funds directed back to this item, but it is still much smaller than the one taken from this item. A while ago, I had the opportunity to listen to the Minister of Defense in Poland. I was happy to hear his speech when he spoke of the importance of the partisan struggle in 1941-1945. That is why I think that the item, when we somehow take it from the Ministry of Defence for these purposes, is actually the right one and should also be supported by the Minister, in the light of his statements, and in fact supported by the action. It is indeed a problem when the issue of money is involved in the allocation of funds. It is also said that the minister laid his wreath on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which was not his or was not his own government. I propose to the Members and Members that they support the amendment. The amendment does not only speak of the NOV Association of Fighters, it also speaks of the North Association. And I tell you that participation in individual local communities, both the North Association and the NOV Association of Fighters and Participants, as a veteran association, as well as associations of Slovenian officers, works well. It works because high Slovenian policy has not yet been able to interfere with these associations there far from the centre, far from Ljubljana. But for all these activities, all these activities take money. And when we organize or organize certain memorial events, we find that neither one nor the other nor the third association has these funds, and then we somehow look together and ensure that these events, the Memorials, are also carried out or carried out. When we talk about these funds, it is particularly important to say that these are not the means for the functioning of the Republican Committee, but that they are somehow traveling down the network, all the way to local organisations. And local organisations urgently need these funds for their operations. There are no such funds in these months of Mr Drobnik's ministry. And as it turns out, if this amendment is not adopted, it will not be adopted in the future. I therefore propose that this amendment be supported. At least personally, I will vote in favour of the amendment and therefore support the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u449	Comrade Tarchoon.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u450	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I will, of course, support this amendment, which essentially restores funds for the operation of veteran organisations to the level already defined by the budget itself. On this amendment, I also have a question for Minister Drobnik. Minister Drobnič had an approved budget to implement. The programmes of veteran organisations are an item implemented by the twelve together with the Ministry of Finance. Of course, I wonder on what basis the government and Minister Drobnic and the Ministry of Finance did not implement this budget. The funds were defined in the budget; for someone, in some cases, this was not done in some cases. Some are full of principled support, including for these NGOs, but when it comes to a material basis, of course this is not the case and the scenario is being implemented, which was also announced in the end. But legally, I, Minister Petty Officer, am wondering on what grounds you stopped funding these organizations and did not execute after twelve as you are obliged by law. I'd like to ask for an answer and support for this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u451	Thank you. Does anyone else want to discuss the contents of the amendment? Minister Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u452	I owe a few answers to the questions raised, which I thank you for. First of all, about the maintenance of the graves. Mr Kontic, maintenance of graves, graves in Slovenia has been taken over by the state and the necessary budgetary resources are provided for this. What it is, of course, is for the operation of organisations. But if someone else does something on their own, it's their judgment. It should then be pointed out that the organisation - interestingly, although they would have had the opportunity to submit applications under the programme, they are not, so the implementation is not as it might have been. Otherwise, at the end of the year or at the beginning of this year, we have requested a report in accordance with the rules on what has been done. Some of these veteran organisations did not report. And the provisions state that if they do not send, send reports, their payment may be stopped. Some of these were not mediated in spite of double urgents. Then we also compared the number of veterans and found that the veteran organisation of the war on Slovenia has four times less resources than the organization NOB, with some NOB fighters also being involved in other organisations where they also acquire additional resources. The contract was therefore concluded, but then there was a substantial increase on the proposal for a government hearing. So far, no criteria have been set and I do not know what criteria this funding has been placed on. In a transparent way, the government wants to provide all these veteran organisations with funds for their operation in accordance with the world's standards. However, veteran organisations are such that their membership is, as a rule, decreasing. This is a process that is known and we have nothing to deny.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u453	My friend Contic, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u454	Thank you very much. I understand, Mr Minister, that he does not see what monuments look like, because they do not stop at these monuments and it is completely understandable. The state maintains monuments, but not all. If the state were to maintain all the monuments, this would mean that nothing should be done on its own, but primarily by its own resources. However, because monuments are not maintained as they should be, of course, they need money to do so. And part of that money, I didn't talk about the whole amount, it's about keeping the monuments, and you name it on your hand or something. That they are - members of the united fighters in other united groups, of course, they are in other associations, but because you finance the programmes of action, you don't finance the principals, probably. And when you finance programs, they are financed by those associations where members are present. And if they're in more than one, they're just funded in a number of ways. I think that's just a good excuse when we figure out how many there are, and then we say there's almost as much of them as there is, and they get less money for that, and we don't look at the programs. But the biggest mistake is this, you take someone to give to someone else. No one's defending you from giving the veterans more war for Slovenia. It's right, they deserve more money to get more money to get the North Police Association, but the address you're taking is certainly not the right one.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u455	Thank you. Member Happy Friend has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u456	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished ministers. I would like to say that I am firmly convinced that Minister Petty Officer is unlawfully holding back these funds which, according to some opinion, he does not give to the fighters. That's one thing. On the other hand, if only I could, I would probably give generously to someone else, but sadly he cannot be organized like these men, who are normally also most likely to receive our thanks. And I don't think what they're up to today is right. I will be so much more pleased to support the proposed amendment, which not only allocates funds to this society, but also to Tigris, as well as to the North Association, and comprehensively solves what the government did not know in its proposal. So, I will support this amendment myself, and I hope that it will receive sufficient support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u457	Thank you. Comrade Terchon has also been reported to the public or to the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u458	First of all, I would say by assessing the response of Minister Drobnik on the lack of some substantial arguments, I would say, in a former jargon, that there was only something "momented" because it was not an answer. Minister Petty Officer, forward, I didn't even talk about the NOB fighters and the association connections, but you mentioned it yourself because it obviously hurt you the most. But it's true that they're the biggest item in the world. But what's going on in this is happening everywhere, in the evict nut, in the financing of substitutions and roof organizations in substitution. And this scenario has already been predicted. I would say that, however, I would expect you to be a little more weighty and, above all, that you will have arguments, including legal ones that stand legally. You talk about some reports, you don't say anything they didn't give, you probably thought they were the same, but you didn't know that there were probably many others who were normally funded from the budget who weren't receiving this penalty. You set the criteria as you please, even though the budget has already been adopted. In fact, it is some kind of revisionism, and this must be made clear - even rematchism can be called - on a material basis. This is not wise, it is not in line with the principles that you advocate and are high-flying and some kind of rematchism is taking place, as I said, minister; but I point out that some of these organisations have lost a very large part of this funding that should come to them. Such actions also raise legal concerns about confidence in the rule of law. If we have a law in force that we are obliged to enforce, but because of some political interests, certain political elites are determined not to do so, then this does not give rise to the confidence of an ordinary citizen. We may wonder what that is and why it is. Certainly, colleagues and colleagues, I call on you to sanction this, I would say, an illegal act and to attract what has already been adopted in the budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u459	Thank you. Minister Beast, I ask you kindly if you can conduct the dialogue outside the sitting room. Thank you. On the other hand, a colleague of Žnidaršič has been reported.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u460	Thank you very much. With regard to this amendment, I must say that we have been disturbed, however, by the fact that there has been a revision of the funding of veteran organisations, as it is called, by the fact that there has been a substantial reduction in the lines of associations of fighters, but also by a significant reduction in funds for war disabled persons in the Trieste. This is about the NOB fighters, who are under severe Italian pressure, I would say, right-wing and receiving funding because their problems are concentrated at a high age, average, and they spend money mainly on the services of doctors and physiotherapy that they are not otherwise provided with. It pains us so much that this reduction has taken place, while at the same time there has been a revision in the sense that one organisation has significantly increased its funds and others have not had the opportunity to adapt their programmes and extend them to participate in this part of the funds. By voting as one understands his conscience and making his own decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u461	Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u462	Just for a little while. We in New Slovenia will not support this amendment because it is essentially understood and expected that under the law of the nature of fighters from year to year. This should also reduce funds for this organization. In fact, this is not the case, but they have increased steadily in recent years. And once it is necessary to make, according to our assessment, an audit in this direction. Now, about these various accusations, about rematching and what are similar terms, we're already used to it, so there's nothing new. This is what you fellow U.S. and LDS colleagues have often used and we are not surprised by these accusations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u463	Member of the Run.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u464	Mr Vice-President and all the Presidents, I would be grateful if you would remind any of your colleagues or yourself of which parties exist in this House and which ones do not. We are the Social Democracy and the United List is gone. Please let this be warned, because sometimes a person thinks that out of wickedness, but if it is a great forgetfulness, then it is not the beauty of a Member. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u465	Comrade Run, my mistake, I'm sorry. Please, if I miss you again, just warn me. I think I can say the same for all the other vice presidents. The next one reported to the floor is Mrs Pečanov.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u466	I cannot avoid sarcasm when I find that nature, mother nature, reduces the number of users of funds within the Union of Fighters by more than 30 or more than one third. As a result, some in this National Assembly and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia consider this to be a perfectly normal act for more than one third to reduce the funds for the operation of the NOV Association of Fighters, although perhaps if we went to the head office to avoid actually going for programmes, we could find that the NOB Association is increasing or increasing the number of members and members of its own ranks. So we're not always members of the Union of Fighters just former fighters, but we're also younger, and we think that the tradition of these people, these fighters, is this real thing. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u467	Comrade Sok, let the speaker speak.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u468	I would ask you, Mr. Sok, to be so kind as not to get involved when I speak. I'm not getting involved with you, and I don't need you. Okay? The other thing I'd say is strange. In the last fourteen, fifteen years, the number of the Federation of Veterans of War for Slovenia has increased by more than 120%. Interesting! So out of 56 million, 900 thousand has increased by an additional 73 million 100,000, the need for their programs or by membership. Everything shows that the North Association is down. Did they suddenly begin to die? But maybe the cops who participated in the self-serving war for Slovenia began to die out, or what? Please, Minister - I think there are also funny numbers - to go and expose and reduce to Tiger society the amount of the poor 3 million 700 for the entire 6 thousand dollars. Or, say, a union of mobilized Slovenians into the German army for 3,000 tolars! But will the state budget get rich with it, or what? Aren't you ashamed to even put such numbers in the budget balance? I must say that I support this amendment, which has been tabled, because it at least roughly preserves the face of this country. You may be ashamed to put such proposals into the balance of the state budget!
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u469	We continue the debate. I would ask all present Members not to disturb the speaker while he speaks. Mr Sok, I will not give you a replica, because Mrs Pečanova has only reminded you that she needs silence to make her speech, which is also right. I did the same thing myself. You can sign up for the debate within your own time, but believe me, there are still a few in front of you. According to my list, Mr Rezman, the first colleague to be reported is Mr Rezman. You're out of time. I'm sorry. Here comes the debate of Ambassador Pozsonec.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u470	Thank you very much. Not so long ago, there were disabled people in my office. The escorts brought them here because they couldn't even walk out the door. They were looking with empty eyes. I didn't realize they were blind, and that's when I saw them, and it was terrible to see them. One of them said that the lady who brought him was his wife, who had never seen her before in her life. They raised two kids, and he didn't see either. Now he's got four grandkids and he'd give anything in the world if he could see. I don't think it's necessary to explain that I'm not voting against them.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u471	Thank you. Ambassador Zagorac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u472	Thank you for your word, chairman. Your Honors are here! I myself, like the Slovenian National Party Group, will support the proposed amendment. The only reason not to support this amendment, as it has been heard by both government Members and by the Minister, is nature. For a while or a few minutes, I think not an hour ago, but we did have another area called the active employment of unemployed people, who also, under terms, could say, "by chance of nature and bad politics" remained on the road and without money. At that time you did not so vehemently advocate nature or press the "for" button when it came to increasing funds for them. I don't know, duplicity is likely to become the game of this government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u473	Thank you. Comrade Sok, a debate? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u474	So, just one sentence. To avoid misinterpretation, we have no objection, Mrs Pečanova, to whether you are a member and if membership is increasing, but if so, then you contribute something to it, not to attach yourself to a state manger and to defend that because of the increase, it is necessary to devote more and more money. For those who, of course, are fighters, there is no problem, but for those who have to be provided with money, there have been fighters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u475	The M.E. Roast, the replica?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u476	Lord Sok, please give it to me, whether you will not listen to or understand on purpose what man says, or you do not hear. It may be good to listen carefully to what is being discussed at times. For you are in advance convinced that what you want to hear is what you hear. I was talking about programs, and this 202 million tolars is money that's meant for the Union of Fighters programs. As new members, we pay a higher fee than the older members of the Union of Fighters. So much so that you are clear and you don't have to worry about any of the extra money that the Union of Fighters needs for its operation. You don't have to worry about that! I would just like to warn you that talking about the natural outflow is a waste of time, just as it is an empty waste or science fiction to talk about the natural inflow in the case of war veterans or the outflow of the North. What's the logic here? Can anyone explain why there is less in the North, and why so many more veterans for the war in Slovenia? Let me explain a little, where's the reason for this imbalance? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u477	Thank you. Ambassador Kokalj, the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u478	Thank you very much. Mr President, if I am following right, we are considering the amendment proposed by the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, and I would kindly ask you, given your consistency, to direct the debate really about the amendment tabled or submitted by the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Mrs Pečan discussed the Minister's proposals earlier, and I am no longer clear what we are discussing, I would like to ask you very much, Mr President. Otherwise, I do not understand Mrs Pecanova, why she then advocates this amendment, which is proposed to the North Association, which is expected to reduce membership. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u479	Thank you. I can't give you the replica because I don't remember you being mentioned, but I can give you the debate. Will you discuss it? Here's to the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u480	Thank you very much. Cousin Pecanov's only one comment why members of the association mentioned that they were increasing in the war for Slovenia. It's logical, you know, I think you were an MP when the law was passed. Even today, I think that some can enforce this status because they start to enforce it financially when they become 50 years old. And it is said that this number of members of these associations has been able to increase since 1991, but I don't think the active participants of the NOB have long since. However, because the Association of Combating Associations is also organised on the basis of the law on societies, they are also members, I will say, sympathizers, "eth four", children, sons, grandchildren, etc.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u481	A replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u482	I'm sorry, but everything shows that even though I don't have the habit of discussing these issues, everything shows that you don't understand what all these associations are actually doing. These associations do not have the task of financing supplements, such as veterans, former police officers in the North Association or anything else, so I see no reason to be able to talk, because colleague Kontič said from the beginning, this is not about principals, this is about programs. And if I list only all those visits and participations at various memorials or Slovenian-spoken memorial celebrations that the Union of Combating Associations in Primorska is carrying out, and how much costs are associated with this. Or how much for the war for the independent Slovenia of memorials and memorials, please, we can already see the difference here. And this has nothing to do with the number of participants or members of individual organisations. That's what I'm trying to say, so I also said sarcastically, what is the connection between a natural outflow or an inflow? It's about programs. And if the government wanted to increase funds for the veterans of the self-sustainment wars, let it increase them, but not from these sources. That's not right.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u483	Comrade Bajc, I will not give you a replica because the chairman decides when the replica can be made. I can tell you again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u484	Thank you very much. Colleague Breda, I just wanted to answer you when you asked me how to increase the number of members of some veteran organisations, and I didn't mention a word about the programme.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u485	This concludes the list of applicants. Before we go to the vote on the proposed amendment or the addition of the House of Liberal Democracy, I ask who wants to explain their vote. They've been reported - just one second, please write it down.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u486	Thank you very much. I will support this amendment. I think it's really sad that if the government wants to create a balance of its budget on the account of reducing funds for veteran organisations, any one of the veteran organisations, to draw up the balance of its budget, to squander resources and to think that it is doing well. Such conduct, ladies and gentlemen of the government, cannot be considered to be well-intentioned. This is an act of disdain, opposition, if you want to attack the veteran organizations and their role in our society. All the debate that was present today shows this fact. It is not true that veteran organisations did not propose programmes and report. I have written information from the NOV Association of Fighters that since spring and winter she has been giving everything you asked for. However, you have asked them to reduce to about 25 per cent the required volume of funds, and only later interventions have reached the level that is today. You, ladies and gentlemen do not even know what the programmes of these organizations are, the NOV Associations, Tigers, North Associations, Associations of War of Disabled Slovenians and others. These are content programs. It's not membership funding. None of the members get it, I don't know anything. Even when they're traveling to celebrations, everyone pays for that bus seat. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Laugh, Mr Sok or not, your rudeness on this path is well known and I have heard that when I heard the debate, you said it was not about fighters, but about revolution. That's your view. And you can hate it, only I will support this amendment and I think it's high time that in the country we also respect what's happening in time II. World War II, as well as in the self-conquering war. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u487	Allow me only if I assess that the debate or the interruption of speakers will take place too often, which I have the feeling is happening slowly, I will interrupt the meeting of the National Assembly in 15 minutes despite the hour. So I ask you all to listen respectfully to the speaker who is speaking at a given time. Mr Rezman applied for the explanation of vote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u488	Thank you very much. I will say very briefly that I will support this amendment myself because I think it is right to support it and that I am not the only species of DeSUS to do so. The second thing I would like to say is that, of course, I am aware that this amendment will not be supported or voted out of a very simple fact, which is actually the repetition of this night meeting, which we had on our working body, that despite our support it, and that Minister Erjavec, who is taking part in its items, has agreed, we cannot vote on this because he is not in the Chamber. The LDS, when we should vote, withdraws.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u489	Thank you. Please, if we can continue the meeting without undue comments. Member Mogo has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u490	Thank you so much for saying that.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u491	Peace in the hall, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u492	I will not oppose this amendment myself, but I will gladly support it. It seems to me that we know that the government that reduced these items has been working in this area, as Minister Drobnic has probably suggested. And all Slovenia knows that Minister Drobnič's attitude towards national liberation fighters is something like a red bull's clothing. That's why I understand that he took the money, but I can't understand that he took that little money from Tiger's company, where he took the picture, and he was pulling all the gas on how important this movement was for Slovenia. I understand even less when we discussed the features of the Republic of Slovenia, that the opposition at that time shouted at all the weights, how they respect veterans, whether military veterans or those police veterans, and when they come to power, they will fix all these things. Look what happened. I think that's bad. I think it's particularly pathetic that a little money has been taken from the military disabled people of the national liberation army in Trieste. That, my dear fellows, was pathetic. And that's why I'm calling you, because if we accept this, there's another way we can fix these things in another way to support this amendment. For if you go with a coalition roller and you reject this amendment, there will be under your roller coaster the company of Tiger, besides the union of fighters, the North Society, the association of associations of war invalids and the union of war invalids. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] National liberation wars in Trieste. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u493	Thank you. Mr Terchón is also a member of Parliament who has been asked to explain his vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u494	I will, of course, support this amendment. On the basis of the debate that has been held, I conclude that at least some, at least two, I will say, still do not understand why only this amendment has been tabled or does not understand what is being voted on. It would not vote on an increase in the statutes if, during the course of the year, someone did not execute and reduce them, unlawfully, or by a government or a minister, take them into account. The number of individuals and others has been mentioned many times. I must say that I agree with the veterans of the war on Slovenia to increase funds, although it is not true that their membership also increases in six months by 100 percent and so much, and it is not true that fighters, even if they die, will run out 35% in half a year. That's not gonna hold. However, I will certainly support this because it is impossible, immoral and illegal, Minister, to do so during the year when you have a valid budget and do not implement it. I understand that you can also have different views about the content and the amount of money that a particular organisation receives. However, it would be hygienic and correct for a particular financial year to be completed, for the necessary consultations to be carried out during that period, to draw out the criteria and to require certain reports and then to take action. This is illegal, unhygienic, immoral, and irregular.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u495	Comrade Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u496	I will, of course, support the amendment, because this amendment is trying to correct what the Minister has done in agreement with the Prime Minister and the government in full and the members of the coalition. But he did the following. He did not bring into the National Assembly a new budget memorandum, but he tried or tried to rebalance with this proposal for a new history. Taking one third of the funds related to the associations of fighters and at the same time recording that the funds are allocated for the annual implementation of the liaison programme, of course you are limiting this programme politically, it is kind of said, Mr Minister, that the simple humiliation of this national assembly is. Because you told the National Assembly that you would give money for the regular and special programme of the Association of Associations of Fighters of NOB Slovenia and 65 regional organisations for their costs of regular activities, labour costs, assembly calls, maintenance, repair of memorial signs, graves, activities in the international field and so on. This is the same explanation as in the 2005 budget. On the same occasion, you reduced the funds by one-third. Mr Minister, this is not a correction of the budget memorandum, this is writing history to a new one, and of course we wanted to do with this amendment what you are writing in your own explanation, so I will of course support the amendment. I hope, Members and Members, that you will do the same and that this will express our respect for those who have done something for this Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u497	Thank you. Ambassador Capuder, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u498	Thank you very much. I think it's important to say when we talk about what these amendments are like, what these amendments are talking about. Just an example, the Tiger Society, which was dedicated to 3,706, lost 6,000 tolars in 2005. This means that with this rebalancing comes to 3,700 tolars, which means some rounding. And there are more such items that this amendment corrects, so I will not support this amendment, because it is also, I think, from this point of view so, a little populistly written. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u499	Thank you. This brings us to the vote. [[Back-up advertising.]] Comrade Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u500	Look, on a procedural basis, on the proposal of several fellow Members, I will propose before deciding on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club in accordance with Article 73, 15 minutes' rest.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u501	Please allow, before a procedural proposal comes into force, if there is any other explanation for the vote to be done before it is interrupted for 15 minutes. I ask you, does anyone else have a desire to explain their vote before the vote on the first amendment? [[No, it's not.]] We'll continue with the meeting at 10 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u502	Ladies and gentlemen, we continue our meeting. We're at the amendment to the Veteran Organizations sub-programme. The representative of the LDS Group would like to explain the interruption, please? Target. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u503	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, we'll support this amendment. At the same time, I express the hope that this break has also benefited you, the ruling coalition [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u504	Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u505	and that you have reconsidered the amendment and that you have found that it is not possible to change the budget line on the door to the nose during the year, that it does not go against certain programmes, that it is not possible to express doubts about the legality of the operation of this country and that it is a matter of maintaining some respect, which is not only in principle, but also our history. [[..]] Well, we'll support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u506	Thank you. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There's 60, 23, 36. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 36.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving to a sub-programme for adult education, namely the amendment of the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club. I'm opening a debate. Anybody want to explain their voice? No, no, no. We're voting. Present 65, 19 to 44. (For the vote was 19.)(against 44.) I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving on to the grant sub-programme to the amendment proposed by the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. We're voting. Anybody want to explain their voice? No, no, no. The vote is under way. 65 present, 20 to 43. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving to a sub-programme for the regulation and supervision of the social protection system. The amendment was proposed by the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. Present 65, 21 to 43. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We're moving to the subroutine of foster care. The amendment is proposed by the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. Anybody want to talk? Here you go, Mrs. Zgyner Tavsh.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u507	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Here I would have a question for the Minister, and I hope to have an explanation or answer before the vote. In particular, it is the area of foster care. Indeed, from the amendment itself, as well as from the explanations or in particular from the budget's balance sheet, there is no indication of a move by which the Ministry actually reduces the funds on the breeding line by up to 228 million tolar. Therefore, I ask for an explanation of why, on what basis, the Ministry is reducing funding for the field of care.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u508	Thank you. Does the minister want to answer? [[No, no, ……]] Anybody else want to discuss this? Here you go, Mrs. Shirca.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u509	Let me repeat the question, too, because so far we have not received this answer, except for one and the same, that they have enough. But since we know that's not true, once again I ask for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u510	Thank you. Anyone else? Here you go, Mrs. Breda Bakan.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u511	Thank you very much. At this point, I would like to ask what I actually wanted to ask more than once. In fact, every time a minister talks about reducing funds for certain activities or for certain activities to be financed from the budget, sufficient resources are available in the budget for this purpose. Since last year, spending plus 20% is enough for all tasks, say, there in active employment policy. In this case, the left hand decreases 228 million. The amendment, of course, brings it back to the previous level. Whether Mr. Minister or anyone in the government can explain the numbers, but it's definitely the chieftain. There can be no other criterion for the foster care of children in foster families. Is there so many fewer children in the field now? In fact, this is not a matter of change, this is specifically a case of livestock by 16.17% less in terms of this logic of children than it was planned in 2003, when the 2005 budget was adopted. Is this number available? If, please, please tell me once, out of 5,000 children in the fold there are no more 5,000, but 750 is less, which means that so much less money is needed. Okay! Give me those numbers already!
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u512	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u513	The budget must provide the means to carry out the care and in exactly the same form as laid down in the law. According to the number of foster parents and according to the number of births, this amount is appropriate. We know what it's like in case anything happens, but we estimate that these funds are provided at a sufficient amount. If we were to say otherwise that we would not provide funds, it would not be the truth and we would be working illegally. Everything that belongs to her under the law is also being carried out.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u514	Thank you. Mrs. Pechanova, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u515	The Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs does not know how many children were born in 2003, how many were born in 2004 and how many in 2005. Your answer doesn't give me what I expected from everything. You don't know how many children will be in breed in 2005 and how many were comparable in 2004.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u516	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Bajc.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u517	Mr President, I propose that colleagues who bother me, because some people are looking at the echoes on the computer network to shut it down.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u518	You heard me, please. Anybody else want to discuss this? Thank you. We're moving to the vote. Mr. Squeakle, please. Explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u519	On behalf of the Member's Club, I will explain my vote and the voice of the Group of Members. We regret that the Minister has failed on page 1366 to find the answer to this question. The problem, Mr Minister, is that you have really not answered the question of Members, I do not know why you do not want to answer Members properly, but it is not entirely clear whether the funds mentioned will be sufficient. Because, in fact, you are bending over to deny every seven children the right to foster care, given the level of funding provided for in 2003. That's just what the numbers show. And it would be good if you knew the numbers as the secretary of the department and explained whether you would really provide all those who are entitled to it with the appropriate funds. The level of livestock is also expected to increase according to the consumer price index. Your representative on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, perhaps due to the morning hours, failed to explain what that index of rising prices of living needs is. We therefore have a situation where the Ministry of Finance very precisely asks the Minister of Labour, the family, the social affairs, how much money should he spend on an individual programme. This also implies knowing how many children are, how much a month it costs, how many months on average an individual child will be in foster care. These answers, Mr Minister, have not been submitted and, of course, we believe that you have probably limited the possibility for every seven children to be in foster care in 2005. This is why we will support the amendment in the parliamentary club because we estimate that this amendment provides the resources necessary for the implementation of the care programme in the Republic of Slovenia. However, if, of course, the fact that you will limit every 7 children's option implies another policy change, then I do not understand why the Prime Minister said in his explanation of 203 objectives that the increase in fertility is the main objective of this Government of the Republic of Slovenia. You see, we have some contradictions, it would be good if, of course, the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs answered questions from Members and Members and told Slovenian taxpayers how many children we will have in 2005 on average in the livestock sector. As a Member's Club, we propose that Members support this amendment and thus ensure that not only six out of seven children are given this opportunity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u520	Thank you, Mr. Squeakle. Mr Minister, I regret not to give you the floor to respond to Mr Ciccle's calls, but he also knows that you cannot speak in explanation of vote. Mrs. Žgeiner Tavš, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u521	Thank you very much. With the Minister's answer to my question no, but to the intervention of a fellow Member, I note that the Minister reflects great ignorance, the Minister does not know, the Minister does not want to answer, but the fact is that the Minister is reducing [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u522	Mrs. Žgainer, will you explain your voice or discuss it?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u523	No, I'm explaining my voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u524	Then please explain your voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u525	Just because of the ignorance of the minister, which reduces funds by 228 million tolars in the field of foster care, I will break the amendment, that is, of course, part of my explanation. However, I would remember, and this is also an important fact, which, of course, speaks in favour of breaking the amendment. In Slovenia fostering is a practice, a practice before adoption. In fact, foster families mean, after all, assistance to children, and adoption in Slovenia is small and the ministry, which reduces funds for this type of practice, should be aware.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u526	Thank you. Mr. Capuder.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u527	Thank you. I will not support this amendment in particular for this reason, because I do not think the Minister can know how many children will be in foster care, which I think is perfectly normal. Moreover, we ourselves know that the number of children in Slovenia falls from year to year. I hope that the trend with the new government will change for the better. In addition, I am of the opinion that the Ministry and the Ministry are providing the relevant data so that the proposed sums for foster families can be drawn up with this information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u528	Thank you. Mrs. Roach. Mrs Pecan has the floor now, and then she can make a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u529	I will vote in favour of this amendment mainly because I have such a very bad feeling that there are house numbers written in the balance. As the colleague pointed out on page 1366, the minister could himself read how many foster parents were supposed to be in foster care, and so 120 foster parents who are doing this activity as a profession, as far as I know, virtually everyone is doing this as a profession, will care for 1,230 children a month. I just want to know which foster family has on average more than 10 children in care or in care. So it seems very obvious that these numbers are drawn out of the air and thrown into these thick papers because it was somehow calculated that no one would be able to dig through these papers much. That is why I will vote in favour of the amendment, because at least there is some security for the implementation of foster care, which no government, unless it goes ahead, will open houses for abandoned children instead of homes for abandoned animals.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u530	Thank you. Mr. Bones. I'm sorry, I promised a procedural proposal, Mrs. Žgajner Tavš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u531	Thank you very much. I wouldn't even answer, but before you politely interrupted me, you wanted my explanation of vote when I had an explanation of vote. Mr Capuder also had a word in explanation of vote, but I didn't hear or hear, not how he was going to vote. It's interesting that you didn't interrupt him. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u532	Do you have a procedural proposal? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u533	That's my procedural question now.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u534	Mr. Bones. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u535	I will vote against the amendment for a simple reason because I trust the minister. But I also know that those who ask for additional numbers, even though you have read them, will not believe him if he comes with such exact numbers, you will not vote otherwise. I think it is important, however, that the Minister proposes a reduction where there is no need to use budgetary resources. I think this is the basic attitude of the Minister of Economy.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u536	Thank you. Mr. Brenčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u537	Thank you very much. This budget item is dictated by the law we adopted three years ago. It provided for both costs, material costs and a reward for the foster parents. At that time, we once advocated that this prize be greater, that it would be more stimulating, that there was then some sort of justification that this reward was the one that allowed the breeder to grow as a profession and that the interest in caring for the rearing would grow. However, I am convinced that this prize and the recognised fund of material costs were too low, which is why, in my view, the proposed item was not used to the intended extent. But this item can't be any different, Mr. Minister, than a marriage obligation. And there can't be too much money here because it can't be there. Therefore, I do not see the need for the item to be different from the prime law and the number that is evident in the Ministry, which was financed by law, both by the parents and by the foster parents. I don't think this amendment drinks water. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u538	Thank you. Mr. Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u539	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will vote against the amendment. If the proposer were to take it seriously, he would be more likely to contaminate the species and be less empty chairs. Also because I had already said something in the general debate, and the minister said something like this: there are so many resources in the balance for the rebalancing that are required under the law, and nothing more and nothing less. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u540	Thank you. We're voting. The vote is under way. 66 present, 21 to 43. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We're moving to subroutine other programs to help the family. The amendment is proposed by Mrs Shirca Majda. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. The vote is under way. 53 present, 11 to 40. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 40.]] Mrs. Shirca, I was waiting when I said we were voting, and you didn't raise your hand. I am very sorry, but we will not repeat the vote. Are we moving to Procedural? [[...]] Yes, there you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u541	You didn't look or your colleague didn't. I raised my hand. I didn't sign up for the debate myself, but for the explanation of the voice, and that's why I was careful when I raised my hand. At the same time, I did not vote precisely because I wanted to explain my voice. So, at least because of me, you have to repeat the vote, but first you have to call for an explanation of the voice that you have not done.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u542	No, Mrs. Shirca, I looked good. No one raised their voices after I said we were going to the vote. If you haven't voted, that's your problem. I may repeat the vote only if it is found that the voting apparatus has not worked and the technical services find that such a malfunction has occurred on the voting apparatus. Excuse me! I'll wait a little longer. I'm just asking you to raise your hand in time. We're moving to a sub-programme of social protection for the old. The first amendment is proposed by Mr Weber Janko, second Mr Potrč Miran. I'm putting both amendments to the debate. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u543	I would not discuss it, but in the last material I have, it says that the first amendment is, with a note that it is not tabled in accordance with Article 166, paragraph 5. So I'd like to make it clear that there's nothing wrong with whether or not it's okay. That's how we vote either on both or just on the other. This is again the last material I have of 16.6.2005. On page 28, I'm sorry, after the material I have, it's on page 29.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u544	Indeed, Mr Barovic, you are right, the first amendment is irrelevant because of these circumstances. We are discussing the second amendment proposed by Mr Potrč. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving to the vote. We're voting. The vote is under way. There's 62, for 18, for 42. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We're moving to the Mother's Homes and Shelter subroutine. The amendment was proposed by the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Anybody want to talk? We're moving to the vote. Mrs. Shirca, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u545	Explanation of voice. Mother's homes and shelters in this item. I will vote in favour of the proposed amendment for something that has proved necessary and not unnecessary to discuss on the parent committee, because the reallocation of funds proposed in the balance means that these funds can only be used by legal and natural persons who are budgetary users, not by those who are non-budgeted users, in short by non-governmental organisations. This amendment could systematically enable all institutions that are not directly public institutions or direct budget users to run for these funds, thereby allowing more democratic subsidies to be granted to mothers' homes and shelters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u546	Thank you. Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u547	The coalition's support for this amendment will show whether, on the one hand, it will understand what the content of creating a transfer is for non-public users, and on the other hand, it will show what the understanding of civil society is. Given, as the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs has suggested, investment transfers are only acceptable to one home in the public office. There was a very long discussion on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, which showed what the content of this amendment was. We are correcting, in my opinion, only the technical error of the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, if this error is also politically supported by the image of this amendment. If you reject the amendment and then you are not in favour of civil society, you are not in favour of the private sector, but you believe that the mother's homes, the shelters can only be controlled by public institutions - "the state". I suggest you support the amendment. We don't take anything from anyone, we don't give anything to anyone, we just allow the Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs to make a call for all more than 20 mothers' homes, not just one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u548	Thank you. Anyone else? We're voting. Present 66, 20, 42. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving to the user of the Ministry of Health, a sub-programme of investment investments in hospitals. We have three amendments here. The first two were tabled by the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia and the third by the Group of Social Democrats. I am opening a debate on all three amendments. Here you go, Mr. Germich.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u549	Thank you very much, Mr. President. With this amendment, we note the extremely large reduction in funds on the hospital investment line. Here I would very much like to draw your attention to the fact that it is explained in the explanatory memorandum to the general budget that the Ministry of Health is aware of this reduction, while at the same time arguing that the reduction of funds will not jeopardise the investment programme envisaged for this year, as we still have a budget worth a good 10 billion. However, when we read in the explanation of this item from case to case, from hospital to hospital, we can find at the pediatric clinic that the construction of the clinic is slower, today there is no time to discuss it, but there is a continuing concern, where it says that liquidity will decrease in 2005. Reduced consumption in 2005 will be compensated by the transfer of unused spending rights in 2006 and 2007. Of course, this is where the question arises. Given that we are reducing resources and are not transferring them to the budget fund, as has been the case in the past, it means that in 2006, because we will be transferring resources from this item to 2006, which will not have growth dynamics, we will be in difficulty when we face the implementation of the law on investments in public health institutions, because the funds in this item will be insufficient, while at the same time we will face the exceptional pressures of public health institutions across Slovenia, which we can already find today that resources will not be sufficient. We therefore propose that this amendment, which increases the funds in this item, be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u550	Thank you. Mr. Friend.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u551	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Prime Minister, ministers, colleagues, colleagues. Of course, I'm glad to see such an amendment, because it's been a while since we were with the Minister of Health at the hospital. The promises have been made, the money has not been proven yet, but the hospital has earned this money with additional work, with additional programs, with surplus work done. And it is not only this hospital in Sežana that is not the only one, and the same situation in Šempeter is the same, and I believe that elsewhere in other places where hospitals are the attribute of every city. So I'd be happy to support it. I am pleased to ask you, Mr Minister, why so long to the realization of the promises you have made on the spot to people who really need money to ensure human health.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u552	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u553	I must say that with the adoption of the 2005 budget rebalancing, once again, the funds for investments in hospital health will be reduced by the sum of 2 billion 700 million. This means that there are no proportionate reductions in the budgets of the coming years. I must stress this in particular. Part of this reduction is transferred to investment in basic health care, which will increase by almost 100%. This is said to have been a part of these funds transferred from the hospital to investments in basic health care, which has been heavily fed in the past, so that at least some things will be settled here. The reduction will also have no impact on the implementation of future plans for the construction and equipment of Slovenian hospitals or the completion of investment projects of the Ministry of Health. Here I also think of the pediatric clinic and the first phase of the oncology institute, which have been mentioned most frequently in the budget debates so far. This reduction is possible and at the same time necessary because of the large volume of unused funds and investments from the past, mostly for objective reasons, but not for the most part, which could otherwise be repeated this year. And the reduction for these 2.7 billion means that this year the available funds for investments in hospital health instead of 21.3 billion tolars will still be 18.6 billion tolars. More than that, it is technically impossible to spend on projects, either because of the capacity of operators and the actual situation in individual parts, but also because of long-term and complex procurement procedures. Of course, this year's reduction does not mean that this reduces the volume or investment needs of public health. I agree that investment in healthcare requires substantial, substantial more money than we currently have, but it needs to be obtained in an appropriate way or within the overall budget. Right now, you didn't even see this money coming in the past. The values of the projects already planned are not decreasing. On the contrary, as I said before, the Oncology Institute project, phase one, is even increasing by 3.1 billion tolars with liquidity redistributions. Projects where technical and budgetary reasons cause slightly slower implementation than was optimistically planned in your 2004 budget. Of course, these investment needs represent the need for the Ministry of Health to provide more resources in future and new ways to provide them in the 2006 and 2007 budget and in the future plan of all development programmes. For the first time, we intend to provide funds for investments from non-budgetary sources. We are not counting on financial leasing, which is either disregarded or prevented by the proposed amendments to the law, so we will use operational leasing. In doing so, we want to overcome the entirely inappropriate thought that the condition for a successful activity is the property of the State or institutions on the facilities and equipment required for them. Of course, the right to use them is important. In preparing a future single programming document, we are counting on the resources of the European Regional Development Fund, which have never been used before, although this could already be done. In the event that circumstances permit, this also applies to the hospital in Trbów, we will also check the possibility of public-private partnerships. With all these measures, I think we will be able to arrange some investments in the future. I think that more money from the budget will also have to be spent on health investments in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u554	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Friend, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u555	Dear Minister! Thank you for your answer, but you didn't answer me. I don't believe you've forgotten your promises in Sežana. I don't believe it, really.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u556	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u557	I'm sorry. You said wrong. I didn't forget. I forgot. In fact, when I was in Séžana on a visit, we discussed the problem of losing the hospital and agreed that we would solve the problem and we would. As you know, the general agreement was agreed only this week by the government for a health insurance company. Sectoral arrangements are being prepared. Once the sectoral arrangements are fully settled and adopted, this matter will also be resolved with regard to investment or the problems of the hospital. There are others like you said, and that all fits within this framework.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u558	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving to the vote. Mr. Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u559	In my name, I will explain my voice and say what I think about all these debates so far, and especially why we believe that this needs to be supported. Mr Minister, Mr Prime Minister, which I welcome very much because he has joined us, the problem is that when you have taken 2.7 billion dollars out of this programme, you are actually doing two things. On the one hand, you say that amortisation of public health institutions does not go where it was generally directed, i.e. into new investments, and at the same time you say that you cannot spend it. This same government has proposed that, following an urgent procedure, we amend the law on the revision of the procurement procedure. For four days now, what this law has been passed is last Wednesday. So something's not holding. The law has been passed, so you can perform procedures, you have amortization, you should commit it, but today you have said what is crucial. You're actually counting on a public-private partnership. I have no personal problem with this, but you need to amend the Health Insurance Act beforehand and decide what kind of health system we want to have. It would therefore be correct to support this amendment until these changes are discussed whether we will have public-private health investment financing in Slovenia, which causes many problems mainly in the current costs of such a system. Anything else, however, is a delay in the future of investments that could already be made in 2005 and 2006. However, no one assures you in the 2006 and 2007 budget that these resources will not be reduced because these budgets have not even reached the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u560	Mr. Minister, I'm sorry, you can't answer that, because we are now in the stage of explanations of vote and not of debate. Here you go, Mr. Germich.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u561	Thank you very much. I would explain the vote on behalf of the Group of Members. With the amendment we have tabled or with the three amendments to be supported by the Group of Members, we would, of course, like to point out once again that, if they exist in 2005, given that you have taken over this Ministry, certain technical reasons on which you refer and that you cannot spend all of the investment resources, there is, of course, a question why you have not transferred the funds to the budget fund, which was set up just to keep funds for investments that cannot have a material basis in implementation for the current year. Today, many things have been said here about how and how you imagine getting additional resources. This may be possible, but at this point we have a law that talks about investments in public health institutions. This means that if you do not talk about amending this law, we cannot talk about different forms of investment in these public health institutions, because the law that was amended in 2001 is in force. Of course, with this amendment, we would also like to draw your attention to the fact that we know today about the recruitment of 22 public hospitals. On the list, as was also presented on the Committee, Mr Blagajne presented a set of 36 projects. This means the differentiation of 14 projects for which there is no investment value at the moment, nor an assessment of the assets, except the conclusion that funds will be in short supply in the future. In doing so, I would also rely on a letter that you certainly know from the Board of Hospitals, the Assembly of the Association of Health Institutions of Slovenia, which also reminds us of the fact that they cannot somehow agree to a reduction in the investment funds in the field of hospitals, with particular reference to the very outdated equipment that would also be financed by hospitals through these funds, because when we look at development programmes, equipment for several public institutions is one of the important items. This would have a very good impact on the reduction of waiting periods, as of course we could obtain linear accelerators, CTs, which are actually narrow throats to ensure that the rights of health care of residents and residents of the Republic of Slovenia are actually realized. Therefore, the position of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia up to these three amendments will be positive and we will support them. We hope that at least one of them will have support in the other parliamentary groups. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u562	Unfortunately, Mr Minister, you cannot answer the controversy here either, because the Member has misused the Rules of Procedure and has used the explanations of vote for these purposes. Does anyone else want to explain their voice, or does anyone want to explain their voice? Mrs. Pozonac.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u563	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will also support this amendment in the hope that some money will come from this for the children's clinic, so that we can complete the gynaecology in Murska Sobota and that cancer patients will get the necessary tools for treatment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u564	Thank you. Anyone else? We're moving to the vote. We're voting on the first amendment. The vote is under way. 64 present, 17 to 46. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving to a vote on the second amendment. Mr. Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u565	I hope you won't tell me I'm going to abuse you. I will only talk about investments in health care, which, of course, will explain the voice that supports investment in health care. [[...]] What am I supposed to talk about? About the beautiful weather [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u566	Please, only a Squeakle has a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u567	Thank you, Mr. Tuckyat. Look, I'm gonna explain my voice, and I'm gonna talk about the contents of the amendment. The contents of the amendment are, of course, investments in hospitals. We want to increase investments in public health institutions by 2.7 billion, as stated in the Rapporteur on page 165, because we believe it was good that we set up a budget fund in 1003, a fund that allows a team of the Ministry of Health to manage well and make good decisions about what to do in individual procurement procedures. We believe that the second amendment to this programme is actually returning money to where, of course, it should also be directed by this government, and this is the execution of some of the most important investments. Those who are walking around the pediatric clinic these days are familiar with the conditions at this paediatric clinic and, of course, with the investments being made, by speeding up investments also with what additional employment on the team of the previously mentioned Mr Blagajne, of course, we could quietly carry out these investments, especially now that we have changed the law on the revision of public procurement procedures following the urgent procedure. It is a pity that the government has not decided to do so, too bad that the government is taking money where it is not really necessary for children who will later, as it might be, be moved to a pediatric clinic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u568	Thank you very much. Anyone else? We're voting. The vote is under way. We're voting on the second amendment. There's 69 in attendance, 21 in front of 46. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We move to a vote on the third amendment. Here you go, Mr. Germich. Explanation in its own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u569	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. This amendment, of course, has the same message. However, it refers to a substantially smaller amount, which is intended for this item of investment in the hospital. There is also a last chance that the funds devoted to this content should be corrected slightly for 2005. If, for technical or other reasons that you know very well, it will not be possible to make investments, take very seriously the letter we received from the Board of Hospitals of the Assembly of the United Health Institutions of Slovenia, which speaks of the fact that, of course, the necessary funds should be intended to ensure the improvement of hospital equipment. In support of this amendment, we propose to our parliamentary group, and I will also support it to support other colleagues as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u570	Thank you. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 63 present, 17 votes against 45. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving to a discussion on the sub-programme for monitoring health status and health promotion activities, namely the amendment submitted by the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving to the vote. Mr. Germich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u571	Thank you very much. I will explain my vote in support of this amendment on my behalf. This is the next item or set of content that discuss preventive health care programmes, which are reduced by 18% by the 2005 budget rebalancing. This is a matter of very important content, such as health and health education programmes, food policy and the reduction of health differences. These are three very important components that are being reduced for 2005. On the one hand, we have a resolution on the food policy that we have adopted in this mandate, which states that we will carry out a series of activities to ensure a healthy diet for the population. Here our position is such that it will not be possible to achieve this by reducing these funds. Another very important area in which funds are being reduced by this balance is the reduction of health differences. There are studies where people and people of Slovenia have different opportunities to provide health care, depending on where we live in Slovenia. One of the reasons you write is that you will pay very much attention to health conditions, healthy lifestyles, no matter where we live in Slovenia. The reduction in this item is the opposite. Of course, by doing so, we tell the inhabitants and residents of Slovenia that what is written does not have a material basis and that this government pays less attention to this area. I therefore propose that we support this amendment and improve the financial situation in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u572	Thank you. We're voting. The vote is under way. There's 63 in attendance, 16 in front of 46. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving to the next user-ministery for higher education, science and technology, namely the sub-programme for higher education, postgraduate education. The amendment was proposed by the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Anybody want to talk? We're moving to the vote. Mr. Mogue, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u573	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen! The government, the parties and all of us have committed ourselves to follow the Lisbon Strategy and to try to bring the Bologna Process into the school process. This has already been arranged by the National Assembly and we are now looking at this budget to prove that what we have adopted by law is also financially supported. That is why our proposal was to increase funding in postgraduate education. I don't know a customer here who, when we discussed the Bologna process in the National Assembly, argued that there should be no second stage, this is a master's degree, paying everyone. That's what we've all been up to. Moreover, some argued that part of the third stage should be paid, and our amendment is speaking in this direction in order to make this part of education more financially supportive. In the heart of the University of Primorska, the behaviour of the rector of the University of Primorsk was heartbreaking when she explained how she had been rebalanced overnight in terms of investment, and that she was in a very discriminatory position because she did not have a legal basis on which she could receive a guarantee from the State and build her own premises. This is why the Committee, when it was at a meeting in Cyprus and even when we were considering the budget, gave its full support and supported all of its efforts, and in this amendment investment in higher education is also one of the priorities that should be increased and not reduced in this budget. I just have a feeling that there is a need to increase some of these resources in terms of student interest, because we know how they are going and that these funds have always been insufficient. With regard to what we have already talked about at the Ministry of Defence, when instead of putting money into development and research to buy equipment and weapons, it seems to me that since this country has been run by defenders, it is also happening that instead of giving money to education, instead of investment, instead of money to buy weapons. I've met this thing once before, but that was in 1994.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u574	Anything else you want to discuss, Mogue?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u575	No, it bothers me, I don't know what he's got out of it. But he said, now he's starting to speak Latin to me, he says I don't know any but Mr Jerovšek [[...]] [[...]] [[It's a Latin saying.]] "Whatever you do, do it smart and think about the end." [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u576	Thank you, Mr. Mogue. We're voting. At 62, at 17, at 44. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving to a sub-programme of higher education. We have three amendments in this subroutine. I'm opening a debate on all three. Anybody want to talk? We're moving to the vote. We will first vote on the first amendment, which is proposed by Mrs Potrata. Mr. Mogue, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u577	Thank you very much. I'm not going to torture you so much, because I can see that it's not willing to accept anything. But I am going to say that I will also support this amendment because the debate on the Committee on Higher Education, Science and Technology has been such that it is too small and said to Mr Minister that this fund should also be provided at this level to ensure that the study process can run smoothly in the next study year, and I will support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u578	Thank you. We're voting. At 62, at 17, at 44. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving to a vote on the second amendment, which is also proposed by Mrs Potrata. Mr. Mogue.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u579	I'll be very short here, too. It must be said that we have also discussed this on the Committee on Higher Education, Science and Technology. Those who requested more resources say that they urgently need them also because they built a teaching college in Maribor on land where there was a landfill. Now this building is going down or down, it is already dangerous for those who are going into this building, so it would be absolutely necessary to ensure that these things are being repaired. If a student gets hurt or a professor gets hurt, then those responsible will take the blame for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u580	Thank you. We're voting. The vote is under way. There's 63, 19, 44. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving to a vote on the third amendment, which is also proposed by Mrs Potrata. Mr. Mogue.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u581	Thank you so much for saying that. I will also support this amendment. This has also been the subject of many, many debates either on the Higher Education Committee or on the adoption of this budget. It seems to me that the University of Primorsk has arrived with regard to its entry into a difficult situation, where these students should be placed. I will support this amendment, and I am sure that all Members of the Primorské Amendment will also support this amendment to enable this university, which is one of the youngest, at least the normal conditions for work.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u582	Thank you. Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u583	Members and Members of Parliament, the ruling coalition! I suggest you take a break and talk about supporting this amendment for the following reason. On Friday, negotiations within the European Union collapsed. This collapse of negotiations requires Slovenia to divide into regions. One of the important arguments that Slovenia has conditions for three regions is that it has three universities, but of course universities, which are also under all conditions a fully functioning university. This amendment does nothing but ensures that, even at the third university, the University of Primorsk, we will have normal working conditions that guarantee quality, which means that this university will also be able to draw on EU funds. In the coming weeks and months, Mr Janša will first persuade Mr President, and then, of course, his colleagues in the European Council, the President of the European Commission, will explain that he is one of the arguments why Slovenia wants to have three regions, including because we have three universities, because we have three areas, of course, which we are trying to define as three programme regions. I therefore believe that this is not only a symbolic support for the 150 million we are taking from the material costs of the Ministry of Finance, it is 10, 15 trips across Europe, but it is a fact that we support the conditions for three universities, for three regions and for different established Slovenia in the European Union. I suggest you take a break, talk and support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u584	Thank you. We're in the voice-explanatory phase. Anybody else want some? Yes, Mrs. Pechanova.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u585	Colleagues and colleagues, I think it is high time that we really consider whether this National Assembly has set up a university in Primorska just because we can boast that we have three universities here in Slovenia, or because we have the opportunity to offer new higher education, university programmes to young Slovenes and Slovenes, both from Slovenia and from replacements, I stress, as well as from the replacements, that we can study new and interesting programmes at other two universities. That's the way it is in Nova Gorica. I think that all the funds earmarked for investment are planned in the development programme plan and write 2 billion 800 million tolars by 2008 for investments in the University of Primorsk, only 587 million tolars this year. In doing so, it is known that colleges and universities are squeezed into small spaces and that, if we add up all those properties that the three Istrian municipalities donated to the University of Primorska for the purpose of providing their spatial conditions, they exceed the resources allocated for construction in the years until 2008. It is interesting that local communities contribute to higher education more than a country that is the founder and guardian of universities. I will vote in favour of this amendment, although it is, in fact, negligiblely low.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u586	Thank you. We vote on the third amendment. 67 present, 24 to 42. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving to the user of the Ministry of Education and Sport, a sub-programme of primary education where two amendments are proposed. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u587	Thank you very much. Both of the amendments that you are here are also amendments that have arisen in the context of an agreement, negotiation and a realistic view of the Zasavje Group of Members. The story is very simple and it would be good if we heard it and heeded it. Absurd is that it is a primary school in Hrastnik, which is an amendment under number 1, the State Institute closed the kitchen in which they cooked 1,000 meals for primary schools in the municipality of Hrastnik. New conditions, new conditions required the closure of the kitchen and the renovation of everything in order to cook 1,000 meals. We sat down, looked at what we could do, and in the congregation of Hrastnik, they were so strong and willing that 60% would gather them as they would. The 65 million requested in this amendment is only 40% of the investment that will be made in the school year 2005-2006 with your consent that 1,000 meals will be cooked for primary schoolchildren in the school year to come. If you don't, there won't be 1,000 meals. What does this mean in our daily care for the normal life of at least children, if we are already going crazy, because obviously our Members are not subject to the Labour Relations Act, we can work 24 hours and so on, but let us leave it. As long as we endure, let us at least make sure that young ones grow to their normal age when they stop growing and become accustomed to some of the eating habits. It's just not too old-fashioned for kids to have food. The second amendment is very similar. It is a 100-year-old school in Radeč, which does not have a roof or has such an old roof that it has to have a new roof, while at the same time new fears and repairs everything that belongs to it, in the value of 50 million, would also mean a high and beautiful celebration for all those parents and children who go to this school. These two amendments dictated a real need, are not made up and are very cost-effective. So, once again, for the first 40 % of the funds that the state is helping, and for the second 50 million, for the celebration of the high anniversary and the establishment of a normal roof over the head, for normal work. Judge whether that is necessary or not?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u588	Thank you, Mr. Barovich. Here you go, Mr. Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u589	Thank you so much for saying that. I'll support both of you. The first, as Bogdan Barovic has already explained, is the second, because this amendment, along with the Zavek MPs, I have actually tabled it myself. It is a co-financing of an investment in the elementary school of Radeče worth 50 million tolars. Given that this is a serious matter and that this is primarily about our children, I think this amendment is necessary. In addition, I would like to say that this amendment of my mother's working body, the amendment of the Zawave Members, has also been supported. I therefore appeal once again to all Members, despite the late hours, to support both amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u590	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? We're moving to the vote. Here you are, Mr. Jerič, an explanation of the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u591	Thank you for your words, Mr. President. I'll support both of you. The first one, where I signed myself first, as well as the second one, of course, submitted by Matjaž Han with the support of the Zavavian Members. As regards the school kitchen in Hrastnik, the fact that in 2003 the health inspector closed this kitchen with a decision. In about a bad year, Hrastnik prepared all the professional bases, projects, obtained all the consent and, of course, provided 60% of the necessary funds in the 2004 municipal budget and for 2005 to implement this investment. This means about 100 million Slovenian tolars. The whole investment is about 162 million. Of course, we expect the country to ensure that what belongs to us under the law on the financing of local self-government provides these missing 40% with the rebalance of the state budget for 2005 from intervention funds. Why the intervention? Given that since 2000, there has been no more invitation to tender in the field of the Ministry of Education and Sport, with which we could also apply for this urgently needed investment. All other expenses will be borne by the congregation. I ask Members for their support. This will allow about 1,000 children, both in the elementary school of national hero Rajko Hrastnik and of course also kindergarten to have a smooth meal, both lunch and of course only lunch. Thank you so much for your support.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u592	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u593	It's a typical amendment that makes the rebalans work. I will absolutely support him on my behalf, just as I have supported him on his mother's working body. I regret that this amendment will not be supported today, not on the working body and probably in the light of the vote so far. I think it's very specific what the problem is. It is a pity that we have not heard from the Minister either in this or other debate, but in the end only the argument of power will prevail, not the power of Members' arguments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u594	Thank you. We're voting. The vote is under way on the first amendment. 61 present, 21 to 39. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving to a vote on the second amendment. Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u595	The essence of this amendment, however, is that his mother’s working body supported him after a lengthy discussion. The Group of Members proposed by Mr Barovic, who defended him, properly presented it. I hope that you will also be able to convince your Members of the Coalition from your mother's working body. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u596	Thank you. We're voting. The vote runs on the second amendment. 61 present, 20 to 39. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving on to the consideration of Mr Slavinc's amendment in the sub-programme for higher education. Anybody want to talk? We're moving to the vote. At 63, at 19, at 44. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving on to the debate on the amendment of the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club to a sub-programme of support in primary education, aid in secondary education. Anybody want to talk? We're moving to the vote. Mr. Germich.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u597	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Of course, I will support this amendment myself, because somehow it follows the efforts that we have also advocated in the past mandate to provide funds to provide a warm meal for all those who could be in a situation where they could not afford it. Of course, I hope that this amendment will also receive support in the ruling coalition. Why am I optimistic, even though the committee has rejected the proposed amendment? I am an optimist precisely because, in the last term, we had two legislative proposals on this subject, which provided transport and nutrition to students in full. I am convinced that if today's coalition and then the opposition had serious intentions with these legislative proposals, then today, where only to a certain extent we are adding resources to the provision or provision of support in primary and secondary education, then today's coalition will be pleased to support these two amendments. I think that this is also a moment of truth, whether the coalition with legal proposals meant serious or then proposed these legal changes for different purposes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u598	Thank you. Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u599	Thank you very much. Even though it's already late, there's still something that needs to be said. It is true that the opposition then passed a law to resolve these matters. But then, as a ruling coalition, you absolutely voted against it. So you were aware of this problem, and today, when you are no longer a ruling coalition, you are trying to solve this problem with just a few amendments to the budget's rebalancing. And what's even more interesting is the money at the previous one and more amendments, and we'd just take it from the rentals for the business premises. Where do we put those who have to pay rent for business premises? That is to say, to solve one problem at least in part, we would immediately cause another problem. You have tabled a series of amendments in order to reduce the resources for defence to Minister Erjavac. I don't know if then the Union of United Fighters would keep us safe if we shut down the General Staff. That's the way it is. Should the public administration then go to tents, or should they camp in the outdoors? Your amendments are, I'd say, over the thumb.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u600	Mr. Sok, it's an explanation of vote, not a debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u601	I'm a little carried away, Mr. Chairman. I will not support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u602	Mr. Mogue.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u603	I will support this amendment myself because these funds are increasing. But I'm not in favour of passing such a law that would give everyone free transportation and even snacks. But it's something else. One thing is true when you point your finger at a neighbor and you say, "I'll promise you that if I come into power." When you get to power and you show him the figs, it kind of means to me, in a transformed term, a big electoral scam, just like it did with the pensioners, so now, too. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u604	Mr. Mogue, it's an explanation for the voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u605	Thank you so much for warning me. And that's why [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u606	Please leave me alone, Mr. Moge has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u607	You know what, Mr President, it's a late hour, and the famous conclusion of crime is, if you torture someone too much, it makes them happy. [[...]] [[Laugh.]] If we vote this, the Minister of Education will be able to make useful use of this and we will improve the standard of students and, not least, of parents, and we will somehow fix the social education of young people.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u608	Mr. Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u609	The problem of this programme and disagreement, both on the working body and probably today, comes again from what the Minister of Education wrote down, this time on page 1636 of the Rapporteur, that some less than 27,000 students will receive 190 tolls per eligible student. And Mr. Minister will have to decide, if you do not support this amendment, which of these 27,000 students will not receive a regressive diet. We estimate that it would be right to support the amendment. Kolga Barovic explained the whole cycle in one morning - you can see it in a magnetogram, so today you would not repeat it - problems that occur when children do not have a regressive diet, both in secondary and primary education. That is why I will support this amendment, and I regret that the differences between the words and the actions of the ruling coalition are so great.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u610	Thank you. We're voting. The vote is under way. There's 67, 23, 43. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are transferring to the user the Ministry of Culture, with four amendments in the Sub-programme Real Estate Cultural Heritage. I'll put all four to the debate. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u611	Thank you very much. I'll discuss the second amendment. In fact, I believe this is the case; it was intended for this amendment for the monument of the Tigers at Cerje to complete the monument. Of course, since in the past I have been very committed to restoring the honor and glory of the Tigers, this amendment would gladly have been supported if it had not been written anarchistically. In fact, I am sure that the Tigers would turn in their graves if, in order to complete the monument in their honour, they took the money to the Ministry of Defence, that is to say the state-of-the-art they fought for, for the independent Slovenian state. Because this amendment has obviously not been written seriously, of course I cannot support it either, and I am sure that the Ministry of Defence will, however, contribute to the completion of this monument, to the Tigers finally after 60 years, or to the year when they were so shamelessly attacked that the terrorists were side by side with the Vice-President of the Social Democrats, Mr Luksic, and the President of the Union of Fighters' Associations, Mr Stanovnik. In fact, they deserve this monument to end. But those who proposed in this way, on the other hand, destroyed the country obviously do not think that it is necessary to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u612	Thank you. Mrs. Shirca, you're up, but there's no time. Mr. Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u613	I would just like to point out to all colleagues that, despite the fact that we are talking about the budget rebalancing, cultural heritage is an important essence of the existence and independence of the Slovenian people. And if we start leaving this, then we will abandon our word, our culture, our architecture and our own self. If, as far as there is any other solution to conservation and development, I speak of development, cultural heritage, then we would be happy to explain to the competent ministry that this is so in the budget for next year. As long as we do not have this guarantee and guarantee it, our only saving plant is to be equipped with the amendments that are before us. For once, it is about Slovenian culture, Slovenian suicide and Slovenia. What has happened has been, and what will happen, of course, depends largely and enormously on the development of the cultural property of the Slovenian people.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u614	Thank you. Mr. Bevk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u615	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Of course, there is too little money for monuments in the state budget, and too little money for the implementation of the so-called Cultural Tolar Act, so of course I will support all four amendments that contribute additional funds for these purposes. Mr Jerovšek, who is so in favour of the Tigris Museum, had every opportunity to form his own amendment, which would be totally indisputable and would advocate in the coalition and thus provide additional resources for the implementation of this programme.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u616	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? Yes, Mr. Clavora.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u617	I was also awakened when he was, Mr Jerovšek, and was awakened to say that he was mentioned as Tiger. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u618	Yeah, I'm sorry. All you have is an opportunity to explain your voice. You don't have a discussion anymore. Time's up. Mr. Mogue.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u619	Thank you so much for the words. I don't know. In these six seconds, all I'd like to say is that General Maister, who was appointed by the Ministry of Defence, is standing in front of the Ministry of Defence, and even if the Tigers were taken care of so much, he would be proud of such a ministry.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u620	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? We are moving on to the vote on the first amendment proposed by Mrs Potrate. Mr. Clavor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u621	Explanation of voice. I believe it may be awkward to take the funds as was said, but today I would only remember, especially since we had a very interesting conversation with Minister Drobník earlier, that if we talk so much about Tiger and everything we understand who Tiger was, then I hope that you will secondly support what will be brought here, that once the monument to Cer Tiger, the First World War, the National Liberation War and the last liberation war will be completed. I think it will then be an opportunity for us to be united in all of this, but today I will not support this, because I think it is wrong for us to take funds in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u622	Thank you. Mr. Bajc.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u623	Thank you, Mr. President. As one of the members of the Management Board of Tiger and as Vice-President of this organisation, I will support this amendment no matter what. However, I expected all those who debated and tabled the amendments today and justified them to provide at least a conclusion that they would try one of the amendments tabled today to be accepted. And I think most of the debate was infertile.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u624	Thank you. Mrs. Shirca.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u625	Mr. Tuckyat, can I make the first amendment or can I join the other one?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u626	To the first one. The first amendment is in the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u627	But this is the amendment of Mrs. Potrat, it's not about the Tiger.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u628	I put it to the first amendment, but there's a misunderstanding. I just didn't interrupt. We're voting. The vote is under way on the first amendment. 68 present, 21 to 47. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving to a vote on the second amendment, which is proposed by Mr Terchoon. Mrs. Shirca.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u629	At the second amendment, I find the defence user meaningful, so I will also vote, but not only because of the sources from which to provide these 80 missing millions for the Tiger monument. Tigers were the first defenders before the invader and the first to rise up against fascism. Today, some celebrate them, but at the same time, at least if you look at the positions at the Ministry of Labour, they take the money. The Tigers lost their budget for their work. And not just the Tiger Society, but all the other fighting organizations, if the fighters die very quickly and they don't need that much money anymore, regardless of the fact that we're celebrating the anniversary of victory over fascism. I think it is right that we finish the Tigers, unfortunately, is getting less and less and those who were still alive when I spoke to them, and have shed a lot of tears in the fact that their memory is too little in this room, it makes sense that at least their spirit is still in the form of a preservation monument, so this amendment is to be supported. [[...]] After all, this monument is being built at the disposal of the National Assembly, not the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u630	Thank you. Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u631	I will support the amendment because it gives for the right purpose and also takes it for the right purpose. Mr. Secretary of Defense would confirm that if he looked at what he sent to the National Assembly. He sent the following; at this level of the budget line we took 80 million because the Minister of Defence, after a billion 253 added, 136 million. So, for almost 14% of the points, which is a few percent over inflation, he explained that he proposed as much as the users did. And if you read pages 763 to 765, you'll see that it's mostly bigger if you want control of so-called military and other people, maintenance of facilities, infrastructure management, crisis management and so on. So, Mr Jerovšek, purely from the right means is taken, purely from the right! And we believe that these 80 million, taken from the costs of the so-called operational operation of the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia, will be much better designed to build the monument to the defenders of the Western border, because today they would not even have their own Ministry of Defence. I believe that it is simply a commitment of a country where the state will, of course, contribute to what the coastal municipalities have not yet been able to gather, and it is also a matter of confirming the principles of the words by doing so and therefore confirming the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u632	Mr Jerovšek, unfortunately, you cannot replicate and the previous speaker also knows this. You can't, you can't replicate because we're in the exposition phase. You'll do that later. Mrs. Roach. Explanation, if you please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u633	I would like to say that, of course, I will vote for this amendment, no matter where it comes from. Well, the ingenuity of each proposalr depends on him. I'd probably find another source. It is important, however, that this is a monument and museum at the same time financed by all 23 coastal congregations from Bovec to Piran and, of course, failed to raise all the money. However, it has long been promised that this money will be provided from the state budget. And there's something else I'd like to say. This monument or museum is not intended only for the Tigers. Of course, the Tigers are an essential element of this monument, but this monument is intended in the form of a building on three floors, which is seen from the Italian side, over 40 km away, so I think it is a special pleasure for nationalists from Italy and it is necessary to say that each floor is dedicated to one of the liberation armies of our country: the tigers, the partisans and also the veterans and the North in the recent history of Slovenia. For this reason, I will support this amendment, and I believe it is the duty of this country to keep such monuments, which also warn our neighbours that we know how to pull ourselves together and that we also know our independence and freedom, not only to make it happen that we are setting them up and that we are funding them together. I'm also a member of the Tiger, by the way, and I'm paying membership fees, by the way.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u634	Thank you. Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u635	Thank you very much. I will not support this amendment. He believes that this government will, of course, be in the budget - because today we are adopting a rebalancing rather than a budget - that this government will solve this problem. I stopped by because they say that a hundred times a lie becomes true and because LDS colleagues use every opportunity to attack the Ministry of Labour, it is said to Minister Drobnic. There's nothing going on with Tiger. For 6,000 tolars, it's rounding up. And since you've said that many times before, then I have to fix you. So the amount is rounded for 6,000 Slovenian tolars. So, we're saying nothing is taken. I like that we are all of us united and that the Tigers no longer appear as terrorists.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u636	Thank you. Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u637	Thank you. Now we have listened to the seeds of vanity and hypocrisy in some of the explanations at the expense of the Tigers, because today some are fighting for the Tigers when they spit, but Mr Stanovnik and Mr Lukšič have not raised any words. I've been in a public statement, as far as I know, the only Member I've ever done. And that's why he's a hypocrite, and as I pointed out earlier, if I had announced this source, the Tigers would have turned in their graves. [[...]] They sincerely fought for this Slovenian state. This would support a way for the state-of-the-art pillar to be mined. And that's not what the Tigers were fighting for. And I also express this expectation that, within the Slovenian state, we will find funds within the budget, not in the balance, that we will complete this monument. And I just wish that in the future there would be more honesty in relation to the Tigers so that they would not remain silent. On the basis of such discussions, I see that they will continue to be silenced, that they will continue to be insulted as terrorists. I think it's time for this to end. I don't blame Tarchoon because he's just been written to in the mission group, but that's how their terrorism issues continue. I will not support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u638	Thank you. Mr. Tarchoon.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u639	Thank you, Mr. President. So, I would say that the opponents of this amendment have come up with a very flimsy argument. The government had every opportunity to settle this issue on its own. After all, the former governments, which were not so favored by the fact that they were composed of LDS and Social Democrats, are also Members; I am also one among them, have ensured that more than half of this monument has already been created. And now, if these Tigers were so multiplied, even in the ruling coalition, it would be right to judge you by your actions, not just by your words. I think we're supposed to deal with some truly honest Tigers and many very casual Tigers - or the imaginary ones you want. I will support this amendment. I do not expect you to replace the chip today, and I believe that the amendment will not be accepted, but you may approach those sincere in the next budget period, says next year, so that the objective will still be achieved, although with delay. After what I've said, you'll be tried, not by word of mouth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u640	Thank you. Mr. Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u641	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'll support this amendment. I've told you why before. However, I would like to say that the Tigers were not silenced at least three decades ago. No, he proved this in his debate and in one article by Dr Branko Marusič, a historian who knows this issue very well, and for at least three decades we can follow the quotations and discussions about the Tigers in Slovenian history. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u642	Thank you. We're voting. The vote runs on the second amendment. 66 present, 22 to 43. (For the vote was 22.)(against 43.) I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving to a vote on the third amendment, which is proposed by Mr Potrč. We're voting. The vote is under way. 67 present, 21 to 46. [[It's the 21st vote. (against 46.)]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving to a vote on the fourth amendment, which is proposed by Mr Potrč. We're voting. The vote is under way. 67 present, 21 to 46. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving on to the debate on the amendment proposed by the LDS Member Club in the media sub-programme and audiovisual culture. Anybody want to talk? We're moving to the vote. Mrs. Shirca.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u643	Thank you very much. The implementation of the Media Law provided for 250 million, then brought them down to 200 million, should be calculated from 2001, 2002 750, according to today's, a few more. In these 750 million tolars, they could reach their programming resources through a call for proposals, including programmes of special regional and local importance, or student programmes, those to which the state has imposed certain obligations on them but has not provided them with funds. I find it a little disturbing that you are constantly underestimating how we speak to government representatives. These are facts and these are very real arguments. For one more reason, I will support this amendment. Because I think that in the discussion on the law on RTV Slovenia it was you, particularly the Members of the Slovenian People's Party, who tried to regulate this matter, that somehow in the notes I will say 'beguiled' because the promise that would happen once for these programmes of special importance is not visible in the rebalancing. In the rebalancing, programmes of particular importance, which have less advertising obligations, which have more responsibilities to implement specific programmes of national importance, but do not have the resources to do so, are now nourished and in distress. This material will not be settled as soon as possible or if it were filed tomorrow, there would be no source of draw for such programmes in 2005. I would therefore ask that, at least through this compromise solution, funds be provided which would be possible and the basis for the call for tenders in two sections of the Media Act, which would allow for the nomination of local student and regional programmes of particular importance. Thank you very much. I appeal, of course, to understanding these programmes also for others, because they are in real trouble.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u644	Thank you. Mr. Mogue.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u645	Thank you very much. When we passed the law on media and then the law on RTV we witnessed great complications because the adoption of this legislation - ended in a constitutional court, we know why, the law on RTV. The law promises these media money, but this money is not from anywhere, and, of course, if they don't get this money, what the law promises them, they will sue the state, which shows that it's not a national assembly, but that it's a government that's doing bad. Some editors of the regional stations called me because they thought I was still the chairman of the cultural committee and they reminded me of these promises they had been given and asked me if we had already voted on this amendment. I have said that this is one of the last amendments, but I will certainly inform them how we will vote on these things or how someone will decide on this matter. Of course, I will be very happy to vote for this and thus correct some of the problems that arise in Slovenia in relation to audiovisual culture.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u646	Thank you. We're voting on the amendment. There are 65 in attendance, 23 in favour, 40 in favour. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving on to the consideration of the amendment proposed by Mrs Lavtijar Bebler. User of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia, in the sub-programme Administration of the Supreme Court, free legal assistance, resolution of judicial backlogs, special programmes and judicial programmes. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u647	Thank you very much. In the introduction, we mentioned that the Slovenian National Party will support almost all the amendments of the opposition in the majority. That's the way it was - almost everything. That's not what we're gonna do. We're not going to, because it's our judgment that this thing is just upside down. Because a few million dollars for what has already been spent, I don't know how many millions have been spent accidentally or deliberately forgetting so many and so many thousands of acts in my closet, etc. And on the other hand, to take justice for the enforcement of criminal sanctions is, of course, a complete nonsense, at least all those who acted in the previous mandate on the Internal Policy Committee should know this, when we have also looked at the situation and under what conditions the guards and all those who care for the enforcement of criminal sanctions live. In such a way that if the matter were turned upside down, such an amendment would be absolutely supported by the Slovenian National Party. As proposed, we will by no means be and we cannot.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u648	Thank you. Mrs. Kucler.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u649	Thank you very much. First of all, I must express my satisfaction, not because we will be able to pass through all the proposed amendments by midnight, but mainly because an additional 2.4 billion funds have been allocated to the courts through the budget rebalancing. This indicates that the government is taking the draft regulation of the situation in this area very seriously, and the fellow Members who have been in this national assembly for a long time, you will probably confirm that such an increase has not taken place very often or I do not know if it has already taken place. Some time ago, the court obtained new funds from the merger of judges for offences and the Senate for offences. One of the basics of a merger, I can say the basis of any merger, but it's economy. It's rationalization, it's cost reduction. This rationalisation is also expected to bring savings, especially through the use of hidden reserves. I think it is particularly important for the courts to use the funds with all due diligence, responsibility and also austerity. With the amendment, an increase is proposed in the Special Programme of Courts for the Elimination of Judicial Retirement. As far as I am aware, the project for the abolition of judicial arrears is under way at the Court and at the Ministry of Justice. However, it seems important to me that the judges also take this project as their own to try to resolve and complete as many files as possible, including by effectively managing the main proceedings. Thus, less hours will be charged to judges, administrative staff, professional staff and indirectly lower costs. However, with regard to the second amendment and the second amendment concerning free legal aid, it would probably be more appropriate than an increase on this item to ensure that the courts carefully examine the financial situation and the applicant’s assets and, subsequently, restrictively and in accordance with the law, grant such aid. Therefore, the amendment, conscious of and taking into account the importance of this segment of the judiciary, the judiciary, in a broader sense, in view of the reasons, I do not see any need for support.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u650	Thank you. Mr. Run, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u651	Thank you very much. I would like to remind you that, in the course of the debate on the working body, this is the first time that the President of the Judicial Council has appealed to the Government and the National Assembly to form a standalone line of the Council of Justice as soon as possible and to provide its own funding, since this will be one of the serious preconditions for the independence of that body and for the exercise of its legislative and constitutional function, with a clear indication that the financing of the Council of Justice is, as a rule, regulated in European countries. Second. I would like to tell you - Madam President has probably overlooked this or it did not seem worth noting that, since autumn this year, the President of the Supreme Court, Mr Testen, has informed his mother's working body that the material costs and other resources for the work of the courts will not be provided under such a budget. Whether this claim is entirely correct or not, I cannot guarantee it. In any event, his warning, in writing and orally, was very serious and points out that there are new issues in the functioning of courts which are not adequately resolved. I think it is right that this National Assembly knows when it is decided on this amendment proposal, which is at least partly in the direction ordered by the President of the Supreme Court. Especially because all the roads taken by this government to ensure greater efficiency of the courts - I am not sure - are in line with the independence of the judiciary. This also applies to interference with the assessment of the functioning of the judges in matters still pending. This is also true of the legislation tabled, which seeks to ensure that the role and importance of the government in judicial staffing is increased and, therefore, I am afraid, of the politicisation itself, which will not necessarily contribute to greater efficiency. I will therefore support the proposed amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u652	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? We're moving to the vote. Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u653	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I regret that the President of the mother labour body has been confused and therefore, firstly, procedurally, it is only one amendment, which contains three sub-programmes. I also assess that we have heard here the opinion that after the Supreme Court has only communicated through the President that these funds are needed, we have also tabled an amendment that there is no willingness on the part of those who are most responsible, or that we should know these problems in the judiciary in the most substantive way. In particular, I regret that the President of the National Assembly did not allow what was right in accordance with the procedures for non-governmental budgetary users, in this case the Supreme Court, to explain at midnight that they also need 250 million to carry out an important task this year. Finally, last Thursday, the Minister of Finance said that this was one of the priorities of this government and that they were very pleased to be able to add funds at this point. Mr President of the Supreme Court does not agree with him alone with the extent of the resources the Government has made available, so I propose that you support the amendment and for these reasons I will support it myself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u654	Thank you. We're voting. Present 65, for 15, for 49. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We have concluded discussions and decisions on amendments. We are moving on to a decision on the specific part of the budget rebalancing proposal as a whole. We're voting. At 66, 49, 15. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 15.]] I note that the specific part, the proposal for a rebalancing, of the budget is fully adopted. We are moving on to the consideration of the development programme plan. That's all I want to say. We also accept this part of the Development Programmes Plan today, the government will prepare a harmonisation amendment tomorrow, at 9 a.m. it is to be considered by the Finance Committee, so that we will complete the full balance only in the next session or at the next extraordinary meeting at 10. It is now under consideration for the Development Programme Plan. Who wants a debate? Mr. Squeakle, you're out of time. Procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u655	My procedural proposal is that, however, it would be correct for the 2005-2007 development programme plan to hear the introduction by the government. Neither the Minister nor the Prime Minister have said a word about this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u656	The introduction was given to the whole document, as provided for in the Rules of Procedure, but of course the government can advertise within the time allocated to it. Anybody want to talk? Because no one wants to, I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision-making plan for development programmes. We're voting. Attending 70, for 50, for 17. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 17.]] I note that this part, too, is, it is said, a plan for development programmes, adopted. We have concluded our decision on individual parts of the budget rebalancing proposal. And once again, given that three amendments have been adopted, the government will be preparing an amendment by 8 a.m. tomorrow to harmonise the state budget's balance, a mother's working body will also be identified by the amendment, which will meet at 9 a.m. in the big salon. So tomorrow at 10 a.m., we'll continue our extraordinary session. You want a procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u657	I think I gave it to you in accordance with the rules of procedure before you were finished. The Procedural Proposal of the Slovenian National Party reads as follows: "Being aware that today we have been very active and long working through midnight, the Slovenian National Party proposes that we decide on the proposal to start the meeting tomorrow at 12 noon will begin the work of the National Assembly instead of starting at 10 a.m. starting at 12. It's uri."
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-20-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u658	In fact, this is not the jurisdiction of the National Assembly, this is an extraordinary meeting, which I have just decided to continue tomorrow at 10 a.m. However, as much as you want me to do at 12 noon, I am putting this proposal to the vote. If the majority is to continue at 12 o'clock, of course, then it will be two hours longer at night tomorrow, otherwise we could end at 6 o'clock, so we'll finish it later, but I'll do as most will decide. So I am putting to the vote a proposal to start tomorrow not at 10 a.m., but at 12 o'clock. We're voting. Who's in? So tomorrow at 10 a.m., we continue our extraordinary session. Thank you so much for your patience.
