ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u1	Dear Members, please take your seats and calm down. I ask Members to calm down and take their seats. Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! You, too, Mr. Zampernik! Mr. Zampernik! Thank you very much, Mr. Zammernik. I begin the 13th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia convened pursuant to Article 58(2) and Article 60(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that they are detained and that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Anton Anderlich, mag. Your Clavora, mag. Janez Kramberger by 3.30 p.m. and Breda Pecan by 3 p.m. Excuse me, mag. Kramberger is here. I'm sorry. I invite representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to all items of the agenda, the representative of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia, for proposals to expand the agenda. We have also received an apology from Prime Minister Janez Janša that he cannot attend today because there is a discussion in London with British Prime Minister Blair on a new financial perspective. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 13th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The draft agenda is drawn up in accordance with Rule 58 of the Rules of Procedure and received by reference to the meeting on 21 November 2005. The draft agenda will be decided in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I have not received any motions to withdraw a point from the agenda. We are moving on to proposals to expand the agenda. The mandate-election committee shall propose to the assembly that the agenda should be extended by setting out a candidate who, in accordance with Article 17 of the Law on Elections to the National Assembly, becomes a Member for the remainder of the term of office instead of a Member who has terminated his term of office. You received the Commission's proposal by letter of 7.12.2005. Would you like a representative of the proposaler to expand the agenda? [[No, no, ……]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving to the vote. Members and Members are requested to check the functioning of the voting apparatus, namely the orange light on the right hand side of the card. In this case, a vote may be taken. I see that the cards are immaculately invested, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal to expand the agenda. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 67 Members and Members present. 67 votes against no one. [[The vote was 67.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal for enlargement has been adopted. The assembly will treat this item as an A1 item of the agenda. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy proposes to the assembly that the agenda be extended by re-decision on the Law on Changes and Supplements to the Income Act. You received the Committee's proposal by letter of 7.12.2005. Would you like a representative of the proposaler to expand the agenda? [[No, no, ……]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to extend the agenda. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 66 of whom voted against none. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal for enlargement has been adopted. The assembly will treat this point as D1. the agenda item. The Committee on Higher Education, Science and Technology Development proposes that the Council extend its agenda by re-decision on the law amending the law on research and development activities. You received the Committee's proposal by letter of 7.12.2005. Would you like a representative of the proposaler to expand the agenda? [[No, no, ……]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to extend the agenda. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 67 votes against none. [[The vote was 67.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal for enlargement has been adopted. The assembly will treat this point as C1. the agenda item. I therefore propose to the assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda, as you have received by reference and with the proposed or confirmed additions. We are voting on the agenda as a whole. There are 67 Members and Members present, 67 votes against none. [[The vote was 67.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda for the 13th meeting of the Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly is set. We're moving to A1. PERIOD OF THE DAY - DETERMINATION OF THE CANDIDATE IN ACCORDANCE WITH AT 17. A member of the Law on Love in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia becomes a messenger for the remainder of the future good instead of a messenger who has been handed over to him. At its 11th meeting, on 30 November 2005, the National Assembly found that, in accordance with Article 9 of the Law on Members, a Member of the Parliament, Mr Miroslav Lucio of 30.11.2005, had terminated the term of office of a Member of the National Assembly and on that basis had requested the Republic Election Commission to inform the assembly on the basis of Article 17 of the Law on Elections to the Assembly, to which the candidate from the list of candidates would be appointed for the remainder of the term of office. The Republican Election Commission has forwarded to the assembly the conclusion that the mandate of the current Member of Parliament, Miroslav Lucija, will be passed on to Marjan Pojbic. The findings were addressed by the Commission's mandate-holder, who informed the assembly in writing and submitted a proposal for a decision. The Commission's rapporteur wants a word? [[No, no, ……]] Does anyone want a word about this? [[No, no, ……]] Since no one wants to discuss, I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision on the next proposal for a decision. The mandate of Mr Marjan Pojbić, born 6.2.1961, resident of Sweet Top 35, Sweet Top, Municipality of Šentilj, is hereby confirmed. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 65 votes against none. [[The vote was 65.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. Congratulations to Mr. Pojbich. [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] [[...]] I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to B1. PERIOD OF THE DAY - REGULAR DECISION ON THE AMENDMENT AND SUPPORT OF THE LEGISLATION LAW. At its 9th extraordinary meeting on 30.11.2005, the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia decided that, pursuant to the 3rd indent of Article 97(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, it would require the national assembly to re-judge before declaring the law on amendments and additions to the Income Act. I give the floor to the representative of the Council of State to explain the Council's request. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u2	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! At their meetings, the Commission of the State Council for the Economy and the Council of State addressed the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Income Act, supported it in principle and adopted specific comments to the proposal. The Council of State supports changes and additions to the law which increase the competitiveness of the Slovenian Tax Council. It is unacceptable, however, that the Government, with other amendments aimed at achieving transparency, understanding and not least the feasibility of some of the solutions already in place, has created changes that in no way constitute improvements but change the value system of the existing arrangements. These changes, according to the State Council, will increase inequality and social distribution in Slovenia. In order to find new tax sources, the bill or government should more fairly redistribute tax burdens, and in particular, should, if not improved, at least maintain a specific or now applicable policy in taxing those most vulnerable social groups. The Council of State estimates that the social situation will deteriorate with the passing of legislation to these groups. It is concerned that the Government of Change, which exceeds the level of the necessary corrections, has embarked on such sensitive topics by means of an urgent procedure which has prevented the treatment and adoption in just a few days. The government has thus avoided a regular legislative procedure that would take longer, but would have allowed the public concerned, as well as those most affected by the changes, to obtain answers to all questions and concerns. Thus, the government has completely ignored the student organisation's reasoned comments on Article 43 of the bill, which would allow for equal treatment of students in their taxation of their income, and in particular would provide them with sufficient resources for independent living and studies. Student work is an important resource for a student to survive and study and non-students serving with a student’s work, and it would be necessary to do something different from a tax point of view. The Council of State draws attention to a solution that will create additional social dispersion and increase inequalities. Thus, the law introduces taxation of interest on deposits for all citizens and citizens in Slovenia. As the tax on capital gains decreases, the tax burden increases for all others. With the amendment of the Law, paragraphs 54 and 57, 300 thousand dollars of interest is abolished below the limit under which income is not paid. This not only reduces the tax competition of Slovenia, but allows so small, unemployed workers and pensioners, students and students, as large savers, to pay the interest tax regardless of the amount of the savings account. It is known who has already invested their financial resources in securities. Thus, they save caring, honest, disadvantaged citizens of socially weaker and vulnerable social groups that save, for example, for oil or possibly for their funeral. On the other hand, this means destimulating healthy savings, especially in young people and children. The law introduces special treatment for those who have received denationalisation bonds. Article 25 of the amendment provides that the interest and bonds received as compensation by the beneficiary shall, in accordance with the law governing denationalisation, be specifically excluded as the subject of taxation or subject to relief. It is therefore a narrow group of denationalisation beneficiaries who received 200 billion tolls of bonds from this title and receive a 6 % interest rate each year until 2016, of course from the burden of Slovenian taxpayers. It is only for them that the country will give them billions of tolars in this way over the next ten years [[End warning sign]] which everyone else will pay from the interest tax.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u3	Mr. Pickles [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u4	It's not just about dispersion and social inequality, it's about customerism. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u5	Time's running out, Mr. Patchman.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u6	Governments and coalitions. [[...]] These are important changes which, in their own way, presuppose part of the reform measures and which, as a result, indicate the direction in which the reforms are actually going and who the prosperity of these reforms is.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u7	Thank you, Mr. Kraut. Time's up.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u8	In case of non-compliance with the State Council’s comments [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u9	Mr. Mower!
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u10	Councillors are really thinking about calling for a legislative referendum. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u11	Thank you very much to a member of the state council, Mr. Rado Krpač. The request was addressed by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as the parent working body. I give the floor to the Chairman of the Committee, Bojan Starman, to present the opinion of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. President. At its 11th meeting of 5.12.2005, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia considered the decision of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia proposing this proposal of 30.11.2005, that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia should once again decide on the law amending and supplementing the Act on Income adopted by the National Assembly on 23.11.2005. The Committee took note of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and also presented its reasons for the proposal submitted to the National Assembly. The debate, as well as the outcome of the vote, showed that the decision was ultimately such that the Committee proposed to the national assembly to re- back up this law simply because it was found to bring a lot more positive movements to our taxpayers than negative ones. In particular, some of the reasons why it is practical to support this law again have been given. A whole number of taxpayers are granted additional exemptions in the new law. I would repeat them: natural persons providing assistance to disabled persons, an allowance for large families, cash prizes for athletes also in other competitions, not only in the Olympic Games, income generated by the sale of waste paper, a veteran supplement under the law on disabled persons and late interest, if paid on the basis of a judicial decision, the credits for the use of mobile phones and parking facilities, the threshold for determining the tax base by taking into account the standard costs, the standardised expenditure is increased by a new law of 3,9 million to 6 million tolars, the real assets transferred from the household to the company are not considered income if this was obtained before the start of the operation, a substantial increase in normal expenditure on agricultural and additional activity for domestic products and artificial trades, which are increased from 25 % to 70 %, which would result in a substantial contribution to domestic turnover, a substantial increase in the amount of income and a substantial amount of income. In addition, the standard costs recognised in the broadcast are also increased in the case of rentals. There is a whole range of things that have helped and outweighed the Committee's decision in this direction to back up and propose to the National Assembly that the proposal for an income law be supported. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy proposes to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to adopt, in accordance with Article 91 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the Act amending and supplementing the Act on Income. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u13	Thank you, Mr. Starman. I give the floor to the representative of the bill's proponent to explain the government's opinion. Mr. Minister, Dr. Andrey Bajuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! At its regular meeting on 30 November, the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a request for the National Assembly to decide again on the law amending and supplementing the law on income adopted by this National Assembly on 23.11. In explanation of the request, the State Council states that the law is not appropriate, in particular from the point of view of social dispersion and the increase of inequality. The law is intended to increase inequality and social distribution in Slovenia due to unequal treatment of students in the taxation of their incomes, the application of full taxation of interest on deposits for all citizens and citizens in Slovenia, and special treatment of interest on denationalisation bonds. The Government considers that the findings of the State Council are not justified for the following reasons: The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has submitted a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Income Act to adopt this national council with the aim of eliminating certain disproportionateities which are reflected in the adopted law in 2004 and increasing the international visibility of Slovenia also in terms of relatively attractive tax legislation, which must not lead to a substantial reduction in the revenue provided for in this title. For those reasons, the State Assembly adopted the law following an emergency procedure on 23.11. The law is based on the principle of general tax liability, which is realised through the synthetic taxation of one part of the income by progressive tax rates and the cedular taxation of the second part of the income through proportional tax rates. In view of the proposed objectives of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Act, the following substantive amendments are contained in relation to the law in force. First time. The taxation of the income of natural persons is divided into the taxation of active income, i.e. income from employment, activities, basic agricultural and basic forestry activities, income from renting and income from the transfer of property rights and other income under Article 98 of the current law and income, which will be taxed on an annual basis by progressive tax rates of those same tax rates already established in the law adopted in this National Assembly in May 2004 and taking into account tax exemptions and, on the other hand, taxation of passive incomes, that is to say interest and dividends and capital gains taxed at proportional rates. Another time. The special arrangements for taxation of mutual funds' incomes have been abolished. Income from the acquisition of investment vouchers will be taxed as capital gains and other incomes, according to nature, treated as interest or as dividends. Third time. The rate of income income to be taxed on an annual basis shall remain the same as in the applicable Income Act. The rate of taxation of interest and dividends is set at 20%, only from 1.1.2008. The rate of taxation of capital gains from the acquisition of property securities and equity shares and from the acquisition of investment vouchers is also set at 20%, by reducing after the fifth year of holding capital to 15%, after the tenth year to 10%, after the fifteenth year of possession to 5% and after the twenty-year of possession to 0%. Fourth time. The exemption of income payments is extended to certain ratings such as mobile phones, parking spaces and certain incomes such as a large family allowance, a veteran supplement and so on. Fifth. The taxable person who carries out the activity will be able to determine the tax base by taking into account the standard expenditure provided that, in addition to meeting the other conditions, his or her income does not exceed 6 million tolars in the last 12 months. [[According to the law in force, this amount was 3,9 million tolars]] . Small undertakings engaged in agricultural activities, such as gardening, wine production, beekeeping, or farm complementary activities, domestic and artificial products or small housewives, will be allowed to apply standard expenditure of 70% [[under the applicable law only 25%]] . Some additional benefits have also been accepted for the debtors who are benefiting from the activity. Six. The normal costs after determining the tax base for the income from the rental of assets increase from 20% to 40%. It's a week. A new relief is provided for the purpose of resolving the debtor’s housing problem, namely, the amounts paid for own resources, the principal’s sums and interest paid by the debtor during the current year in respect of the loan obtained to resolve the debtor’s housing problem, up to 4% of the taxpayer’s tax base. Eight. Certain provisions that are in the interests of the taxpayers, both in terms of simplification and also in terms of unloading, will be taken into account in the 2005 income assessment. Your Honor! Proposals for a position, a group of councillors and councillors of the State Council, which sought majority support, were based on three essential elements. Firstly, taxation of student labour revenues, which is highlighted in the opinion, has been subject to several legislative procedures. Income from employment received by students is less taxed than is the case for the income of workers and workers. In principle, a large difference in the taxation of income from employment, depending on who achieves these incomes, a person who has student or worker status leads to distortions in the labour market, as employment of students for employers is financially more favourable than employment of other workers. However, due to the improvement of the social situation of the studying youth in the Income Act, a special arrangement has been retained whereby the debtors, who have student or student status, receive special allowances amounting to a million EUR 200,000, but only if they do not exceed a million EUR 600,000 in tax year and fulfil the age limit laid down by the law. The limits are given only to persons with comparable lower incomes and their available income is comparable to that of other taxpayers and debtors who have the right to a regular study in Slovenia in accordance with the positive rules. This exemption was based on the basis of which only about 2% of all students and students who received incomes for temporary or occasional work on the basis of travel of authorised organisations carrying out the activity of intervention to pupils and students had received very little income over this amount of relief. Their average income was a million 892.798 tolars, while on average the income of all 150 000 734 students and students who received income through student services was 484,072 tolars in 2003. As early as May 2005, the Slovenian Student Organisation or the drafters of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Act proposed to supplement the Income Act in terms of the degressive reduction of the special personal allowance while eliminating the income price and age restrictions, but these proposals were not supported in the National Assembly. The removal of the time limit for the recognition of a special personal relief is not appropriate. The content of the recognised personal allowance shall be in recognition of the more favourable status of beneficiaries studying in youth and their previous active presence on the labour market as a deficient highly educated professional staff, rather than allowing this relief to natural persons who are enrolled in appropriate higher education at any time in their lifetime. A special personal allowance for these beneficiaries is fixed at such a level that the abolition of the age limit would increase the pressure, even unjustifiable, for admission to undergraduate and postgraduate study programmes only due to a more favourable tax treatment of these incomes. This would undoubtedly have an impact on the increased demand of employers for temporary or occasional work of students and thus on the outflow of other workers in the labour market, given the high burden of income from the labour relationship. The government considers that the situation in this work has not changed to the extent that it dictates a change in the taxation of student labour income, and we therefore oppose this. Taxation of interest. The Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Act provides that the taxation of interest on savings deposits in 2006 and 2007 will be subject to a transitional solution, i.e. in 2006, I repeat, in 2006, interest of up to 300,000 dollars on an annual basis will be exempt from income payments, i.e. by 31.12.2006, all interest below 300,000 dollars is exempt from income and in 2007 up to 150 thousand dollars, and the rate of tax in those two years is 15%. As of 1.1.2008, there will be no more special exemptions in the taxation of interest. That solution for the taxation of interest stems from the objective of equal tax treatment of investment income or the objective that natural persons do not decide on the form of investment in relation to the tax treatment of income from invested assets. That is why we have also proposed a broader two-year period for all to prepare for such decisions. Thirdly, however, it is taxation of personal interest from the Slovenian Compensation Company bonds. Already in the Income Act, published in Ur. I.54/04, Article 20(6) provides that income shall not be paid from the refund of property and compensation received in accordance with the law governing denationalisation. Consequently, Article 151 of that Income Act repealed the first paragraph of Article 7 of the Denationalisation Act, which provided that the acquisition of property of other property or compensation under the Denationalisation Act did not result in the payment of the tax, so that the substance of the Denationalisation Act was transferred to that Article 20, paragraph 6, of the Income Act, which was adopted by this National Assembly in May 2004. Article 45 of the Denationalisation Act provides that the payment of compensation shall be subject to bonds nominated in German stamps and payable in equal six-year instalments within twenty years. The interest rate is 6%, 45th Article of the Act. The regulation of taxation of interest on denationalisation bonds in the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Act, 50% of the interest was paid, which was adopted by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy of this National Assembly, was adopted on the basis of broad agreement. Members of both the opposition and the positions voted for it. This follows the basic provision of Article 20, paragraph 6, of the Income Act, which I repeat was adopted in this National Assembly on 20 May 2004. Interest on bonds issued for the implementation of the Denationalisation Act cannot be equated by content with interest on other types of bonds or deposits, since the bonds under the Denationalisation Act were not issued to cover the financial needs of the issuer, but because of the real value of the compensation in cases where the held-up property cannot be recovered or if it is not possible to disclose the ownership right or to expose the property. Your Honor! On the basis of the above, the Government considers that the reasons given by the State Council in its request are unfounded and I propose that the National Assembly, when re-decision is taken, approve the law on amendments and additions to the Income Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u15	Thank you, Minister. I give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. Mr Miran Potrč will present the position of the Socialist Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Mr President of the National Assembly, Mr Minister of Finance, colleagues and colleagues! The Group of the Social Democrats will not support the draft law on amendments and additions to the law on income. I am aware that the debate on the Income Law is sensitive, difficult because it concerns the situation of every citizen and citizen of Slovenia and everyone in the Income Act is looking for and regulating their position. In doing so, it is not necessary that his view be objective toward the whole, but perhaps at some point he really thinks only of himself. However, he is no doubt well aware of whether the government should be aware of that. It must therefore be well aware that when the Income Act opens, it opens Pandora's box and allows for such or different views on the country's income arrangements, especially if it does so by means of an emergency procedure in which it has much less opportunities to have a serious discussion with the affected and that at least part of them would convince that the proposed solutions are balanced for the country and for individual debtors. In the Group of Social Democrats, we are convinced that, in view of the goals and positions we represent in our party, the government, with its changes and additions, has not been successful. In doing so, let me stress the following. We do not want to argue that we were fully satisfied with the law in force, not with the one we helped to adopt in the previous term at the end of the year, but, above all, we were not satisfied with the fact that the previous government failed to prepare tax reform much before the end of the mandate and that it itself did not have a happy time in all the solutions. However, the decisions proposed by the current decision, in our view, are making things worse on some points, but not improving the situation. And, above all, I'd like to say a few words. We are convinced that, with some minor changes that are for the benefit of greater competitiveness and better solutions, the concept of this law is to try to give those who have less, to take more, and to those who have more, to tax them less. This is an unacceptable concept for us to adopt and to supplement a law that we cannot support for that reason. And I would like to base this on some facts. The first of these facts is the decision to tax interest at fixed rates, according to which after deduction another two years 15%, then 20%, independent of the amount saved. We believe that this is a solution that specifically rewards or gives a better position to those who have much and takes away those who have little. The previous solutions reflected a certain part of the interest as a constant deduction and, in particular, included interest in the income system and their payment in a share where there was no deduction, at rates that apply to income. This time the government has decided to tax after deduction for all at the same rate, and this certainly gives a more favourable position to those who have more and a worse position to those who have little. Not to mention that it is likely to discourage full savings, and I doubt that two years will be enough for citizens and citizens to adapt to the new situation. The next thing we can't understand is the fact that, with some of the new reliefs the government has foreseen, we think, above all, that it is unacceptable to pay interest on denationalised property bonds, but that it has explicitly resisted certain requirements and proposals to facilitate the payment of income from certain social rights. It's about disability and family allowance, it's about veteran benefits, it's about the duration of professional rehabilitation under the law on disabled persons, it's about a recreational allowance, it's about benefits for occasional or temporary care, and it's about helping people with disabilities who are being paid by disabled people, and something else. For all these specific cases, we have proposed in the Group of Social Democrats that they should be counted among the exceptions from which income is not paid and that the Government has slightly rejected them, without which, in our opinion, we believe, possible valid arguments. The next example is the issue of income deductions for all those who for the first time solve their housing problem, especially for young families. Here too, we have proposed a higher exemption, which would certainly stimulate young people to save, and in general ensure the possibility of obtaining housing, have had an important contribution to family and, without a doubt, demographic policy, the government has rejected such an option once again. And last but not least, the question of half-taxation of interest on bonds on the return of nationalised property was unacceptable for us to distinguish between the heights and the heights of all other citizens who will have to pay interest in full, and half of the interest is forgiven to those who receive assets on the nationalisation account. In this regard, there are also half-truths about this in the public domain, as this has also been the case in the past. That's not true. There was no such arrangement in the past and under the applicable law. It was only a decision not to tax the returned property and, since no interest was paid, no such interest was taxed. Now, after the new year, the state will tax everyone's interest, and only those who receive, for the first time, on the basis of denationalisation of significant amounts, secondly, because it is 6% of the real interest that no longer knows any savings in the country, where it is clear that the Slovenian compensation fund does not have the necessary resources and will go directly from the taxpayer's money and because such a distinction is also inappropriate and inappropriate in our opinion. These are all the reasons that convince us that the government has decided to favour some groups and to act against most of the people and people of Slovenia in the drafting of this law, and we will not support this proposal again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u17	Thank you, Mr. Run. Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, distinguished Mr Minister with fellow Members! Something very important must have been wrong with the new tax legislation adopted by the government in 2004 before Slovenia entered the European Union. Too many experts and businessmen and interested communities and citizens are dissatisfied. It is generally known that tax systems are becoming increasingly complex and opaque. The complexity and opacity of the tax system is increasing at least linearly over the period of validity of the system. That is why occasional tax reforms are needed. One important reason for them is simplification and transparency. Slovenia may be a special feature of this. The last tax reform in 2004 seems to have given us a more complex and clearer tax system. It is quite general that it would be good to adopt the tax system last year to simplify and make it clearer. The Income Act was adopted in the framework of last year's tax reform just before Slovenia entered the European Union. Even before and during the application of the law this year, several proposals were made both to the public and to the public to amend the existing system. The criticism was mainly about the complexity of taxation arrangements for natural persons' incomes, the administrative complexity of tax collection procedures and the relatively high permeability of income in particular with regard to taxation of passive incomes, in particular income from mutual funds and capital gains. The proposal for a new law on income, in which we will re-vote today, removes certain disproportionateities that reflect the adopted law last year and increase Slovenia's international visibility in terms of relatively attractive tax legislation, and must not lead to a substantial reduction in the revenue provided for in this title. In the New Slovenia Group, we are of the opinion that the findings of the State Council, that the amendment to the Income Law increases social distribution and increases inequalities, are not justified. The draft law proposes solutions that differ significantly from the established regime. At the same time, the proposed solutions are in line with the amendments to other tax laws proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia at the same time to the national assembly for consideration and acceptance. The 2006 and 2007 budgets already take into account the effects of the new Income Act. Therefore, the New Slovenia Group will once again support the draft law. There are many reasons to support the law. Let me just list some for a limited amount of time. Passive incomes, such as interest, dividends and capital gains, will be taxed on income at a proportional rate. Special taxation of income from mutual funds will be eliminated, the exemption from the payment of income provided for in Article 20 of the Income Act has been significantly extended to the income derived from the return on property and compensation received under the law governing the enforcement of criminal sanctions. The late interest which the debtor receives on the basis of a judicial decision on family policy benefits is very important. For cash prizes paid to sportsmen from the budget. The exemption of income payments promotes volunteering in the field of the performance of protection, rescue and assistance tasks, which is of great importance for the Slovenian situation. Moreover, the exemption from payment of income, which represents a significant burden on the debtors and at the same time a simplification in the forecast for the income assessment. The new law on income due to the difficulty of monitoring and with a view to simplifying taxation excludes certain ratings. Since the amendment of the Income Law brings more favourable tax solutions for citizens and citizens, we will, as we say, re-support the law in the New Slovenia Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u19	Thank you, Mr. Horvath. Mr Josip Bajc will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u20	Mr President, Mr Minister with colleagues and colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! The Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party has actively participated in the consideration of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Act, which is subject to the veto of the State Council and the re-decision on its adoption or its rejection. We have done so both in the home working body and in the plenary session and with specific comments we have been able to correct some of the provisions. Another time. The Group notes that this is already the second amendment to the law adopted by the National Assembly on a proposal from the former Government last year, which fully entered into force a bad year ago, as of 1.1.2005. The Group also notes that this National Assembly has already amended the law in question once and tried to correct the greatest anomalies of this law, as it was said to be only a bad year, and then to correct the area, if I may say, which is also the subject of today's and the treatment at the previous meeting, probably also the treatment in the State Council and also in the home working body concerning students. We ask ourselves in the parliamentary group where all of these were when this law, which has already been partially corrected, had had as many comments as it had at the moment. Members of the Slovenian People's Party's Group also note that in most of their cases, the consideration of the law on vetoes improves individual areas, and I think that opposition Members have also said in their consideration of the labour force as well as in their plenary session that they have found that some of the existing issues or areas could be improved even more than they have improved. According to their assessment, there are also some things that are bad. Members of the Slovenian People's Party, however, believe that no good master, because of the two painful trees in the forest, is going to cut down the entire forest, but is trying to either trim it or cure it. When it is decided to perform a full procedure, it also removes one or two painful trees. In presenting the position, or the reasons why the Council of State vetoed this law, I believe that the two items were, in particular, exposed. And we believe that if these two trees are sick, we even know that they have a transitional period of 2006/2007, in 2006 300 000 interest will not be taxed, in 2007 150 000. We estimate that the government, as well as this coalition, will also be able, if we all collectively assess that this is necessary, as I said, when we go to comb the entire forest, which means tax legislation, in full reform, also in the areas of tax legislation, if necessary, also if these two sick trees are needed, so that we will support the decision of the Slovenian People's Party's Group of Members of the home labour body to confirm the law on the incoming one at the time of the re-voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u21	Thank you, Mr. Baitz. Mr Sašo Peče will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u22	Your Honors are here! The work of the debate, which has just been concluded by the Slovenian People's Party, can, of course, also be agreed in the national party. Firstly, it is true that the existing Income Law is unacceptable and that the National Assembly made a mistake in 2004 when this law was adopted. Another important conclusion is that, of course, it follows from the first that bad marriage must therefore be changed. Also, the proposal of the law, as the Council of State has referred to us in re-decision, is positive in some elements, in some cases. The fact is that tax commitments or obligations are being burdened through the proposed law. On the other hand, it should be pointed out that at least within the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group in the field of fiscal policy of our country and in the fiscal system, we strive for a certain degree of completeness. We cannot therefore adopt a proposal for a law that is unacceptable to the Slovenian National Party in at least two moments. The first moment we tried, and the second moment, we tried to get rid of it on the parent's working body. Unfortunately for him there was not enough obedience or willingness by the government, that is, also by government representatives - that is, the area of regulation of the disability issue in the economic sense or their financial tax burdens. Secondly, where we share an opinion that has already been expressed several times in the previous examinations of the Act, this is the interpretation or introduction of the distribution of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. But let me touch this work a little differently. According to our assessment, the government is trying to direct available funds through so-called savings taxes. Saving is, according to our assessment, one of the constitutional rights of every individual. It is therefore not right for the government to try to influence the level of savings through its policy of direction, which represents a tax on interest, of course also on the form of savings or on the flow of available resources to citizens and citizens. While the government is pursuing this objective, i.e. the aim of directing, political direction of free or available financial resources, and some categories of citizens, who in our case are the categories of denationalisation beneficiaries and who have received their "exceeding damage" paid in the form of ownership of the Court of Justice, are represented or placed in a privileged position in the case of future returns, and, for example, I will take the privileged position with the young family, which saves them in the bank to solve their housing problems. Both reasons, such as the incomprehensibility of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the basis of the attitude towards amendments of the Slovenian National Party, which we have tried to correct in certain elements of the bad income law, as well as the attitude towards the unequal position of certain beneficiaries of the denationalisation process and the current ownership of the SOD in relation to those who save in the bank, are unacceptable, according to a majority opinion of the Slovenian National Party. Therefore, this time we will not support the proposal for a law, at least after the majority opinion of the Slovenian National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u23	Thank you, Mr. Pechet. Mr Willi Rezman will present the position of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u24	Thank you very much. Sometimes metaphors come in handy. We've heard one today. I'll have another. Sometimes when we catch water, we catch some garbage. We don't have to drink water with that garbage. That's the answer to the tree metaphor. Usually, we make it an exception, and let what is good keep on living. Otherwise, we have warned that the law has a whole range of good salaries and that it also has some weaknesses during the time of the adoption of the law. Bad salaries have sometimes been exposed to more severe, sometimes slightly less. But it's incontrovertible, at least for us, that we've argued for more time that it's at least two major weaknesses. The first is that it's a radical movement of wealth from one side to the other. And it's about giving very often with our left hand and taking with our right hand what the left hand gave. If there is a movement of wealth, it may also be possible to say that in the past this movement has taken place more quickly, at the very least, but now it will not be so, but the direction is reliable. Exactly where the wealth of society will flow. And in this direction, those who can make the most of it will not fail. In the parliamentary group, we also wanted to keep some distance from this law when we supported the law and expressed our concerns. At the present time, or after the State Council has asked for reconsideration, we have taken advantage of it, reconsidered it, and have had the concerns we have had so far, even now. The Council of State also considered that, in principle, it supports the law, but does not support it, we consider that their request is similar to that supported by the DeSUS Group of Members, that it is therefore a matter of spillage, that it is an increase in social differentiation, that it is a matter of multiple differences, including possible injustices, not just differences, and that it is therefore necessary to reconsider matters. The legal and legal service has spoken about this in such a way that the first thought, and we believe so ourselves, regarding the student work may not be the most firm one, but the remaining two concerns are such that it is necessary to think seriously. The Legislative and Legal Service points out that consideration needs to be taken again, in particular, of the requirement of equality and of arbitrariness in decision-making. The government replied by saying that these concerns were unfounded that the request for re-examination was unfounded. He says that because the law eliminates the imbalances that have been established in the past, we can agree and have nothing to do with correcting any unjustified imbalances. It also says that it increases Slovenia's international recognition of the benefits of this tax system. Probably, I don't know if it's in the best light, and I don't know if those who have to pay for it have to. Most, the vast majority of citizens. We have no other way of imagining it than by having a large majority in smaller amounts settle what the smaller group will get if the country, as the proponent requests, does not receive anything less in the budget. We don't see where we're going to get that surplus, where it's going to be more where we could take it from. Because of these concerns that we have had, expressed and expressed today, we will vote each at our own discretion. However, we guarantee that some things with the proposal of a law to correct what might be adopted today will be required in a very short time, first within the framework of the coalition, and if it fails there, we will draw up a proposal for a law to correct what we consider not to be good. We will vote each on our own convictions, each on our own conscience, and predict, if such a law is re-adopted, a proposal for a law to change what is just to be confirmed.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u25	Thank you, Mr. Rezman. Mr Jože Tanko will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u26	Thank you so much for your words and a nice greeting to everyone. Today we are faced with additional work by re-voting one for citizens and citizens of the most important law, the Income Act, which shares the financial results and effects of their annual activities on the part to be devoted to the State and the part to which it remains. Some parties have also tried to amend the law completely in the course of discussions and votes on individual amendments to the novel. They wanted him to be as much as possible in one part like last year's extremely bad Rob-Marmor law, which was drafted by the former government with a large pump and, on the other hand, proposed solutions that were only a populist and excessive upgrade to the proposed solutions. The past and the last of Robb’s governments had never dreamed of them before, let alone accepted them when they had the opportunity. However, the full vote on the law has already paved the way for a decision in the State Council to actually take place. Last year, before the elections, the former government proposed to the National Council a new set of tax laws, which expressly infringed on the rights of taxpayers, whether legal or natural. Under the cover of small reliefs from the poorest segment of the population, which was granted some small leave, she proposed extremely strict legislation that would cut down a significantly larger piece for the country and leave much less to the one who produced the results. Only a few tens of thousands of the poorest would receive several thousand tolars of reliefs, in fact almost nothing, and everyone else should contribute significantly more than so far, several times more than you have intended to relieve those with more difficult conditions. It was on tax relief for the poorest - in fact it was sand in the eyes - that the former government also built the entire electoral concept and made it extremely popular in the media, but it burned. The strategy was clear, winning, and with this new mandate were at hand and you planned to succeed yourself. All the tax burden of bad tax legislation would fall in this case to the old, former government and the previous mandate. The new government, although it would have the same option and would mostly have the same frame in it, such as Rop, Sikl, Lachovnik, Gantar and others from SD, would in fact be clean on this side, without burden and at the will of the people. But people's will was different. Most of the citizens and the management of companies are soon, in time, aware that such a scenario prepared by the former government set-up is destructive, undeveloped and that such an increase in tax obligations is unsustainable and pointless. The LDS link with SD has decided that it will simply cover its appetites, cost-effectiveness, clientism, the financial abuses we have witnessed with higher taxes. Not by identifying and correcting mistakes, by rationalising, sanctioning officials and politicians, but by money from citizens and successful companies. It may have been something else to expect, but that's how it's supposed to be. As soon as the previous government, with its majority in the National Assembly, ensured the adoption of the Income Act, there was a sudden escape from the transitional capital and a large transitional success took a lot of money into accounts abroad; perhaps such a scenario was even agreed with them. Which is not good for the rich, nor can it be for the poorer, which has only been confirmed a little later and thus has shown errors in previous policies. This media insurmountable report on tax reliefs for the poorest without informing them that even some social or other aids, such as a large family allowance or eco-payments, have been retaxed, thus taking more of these categories than they have been reimbursed or forgiven under another provision of the law. In a very bad situation, culturers were placed in a very poor position because they were severely reduced by almost three times - by only 25% - by standard costs, and by no means by culture in the National Assembly. The conditions for domestic and artificial producers have also deteriorated significantly and for complementary work on farms. It went to college, and their chances got worse. Immediately after the elections, the organised protests of students and athletes began. The sports team, which was on the big night last Sunday, was also attended by Jankovic, appointed as the main culprit by the Minister Dr. Beast and Dr. Bajuk, who took over the school and financial department and inherited a situation that was not very good. No one mentioned the former government, former ministers, Dr. Gabra and Dr. Marble, who passed this income law. They did not respond to the protests, they did not assume their part of the responsibility for the poor legacy, but silence can also be very talkative and I believe that the citizens understood it as well. This government then quickly repaired what could be repaired. At that time, last December, even though some established experts proposed even the freezing of the Marmorian Income Act. At the time, too, the State Council kept silent about bad marriage, did not miraculously vote in veto, nor did they react to union headquarters. Really interesting and illogical or not! Perhaps the conduct of the State Council and the union headquarters had its own purpose, which is now coming on the day. It is important that now, with significantly better income and other tax legislation, which with a variety of incentives promotes development and improves personal standards, they act quite differently. They do not agree with the tax reforms, while protesting and proclaiming that no one has talked to them, let alone coordinated. This suggests that last year's tax package, prepared by the former government, was probably in line with them and that someone took on a large part of the non-critical protection of the former government and thus gave silent consent or silent support to the former government's policy. There may be another question at the same time and some other thought and research will be initiated, but I think that something in this valley of Šentlorjanski, in this valley of Slovenia, is seriously wrong. It is protesting against the reform objectives, protesting reform steps to bring development benefits to Slovenia. It's protesting tax evasion. However, it did not protest the unbridled impalement of citizens and the economy. Is it necessary to adopt a veto and protest on the street against the tax reliefs accepted by this coalition and which improve the tax situation for all economic and most individuals? What is the role of the chambers and other associations that somehow stand by and do not sufficiently explain whether these measures are really as bad as the trade unions claim, or whether the measures are more relaxing, positive, developmental, as the government and this coalition claim. I can repeat some things, and I will repeat them, because the opposition masters and other economics, the right and other honorable professions and profiles, are unwilling or unable to say. I guess it's not in the concept. I will stress only some of the most important improvements, most of which until last year, when the other government was, could not even be dreamt of. We adopted five tax laws days ago that significantly improve the situation of all taxpayers, individuals and economic operators. All of them. No one's tax situation is going to get worse. Economic companies will pay 20% less wage taxes and will have greater opportunities to apply incentives to development research activities, significantly reduce late interest, and something else will happen. Small companies with turnover of up to 50 million will be able to decide whether to pay VAT only on receipt of invoices or as reported by Rob and Maramor within 14 days of the invoice being issued. This will allow many people to perform entirely differently in a market where payment discipline is very present and where unreality and speculators destroy programmes, small entrepreneurs, reduce economic growth and increase pressure on labour offices. Such a measure is necessary but not sufficient. The State will also have to make order in business life, more rewarding or even better protecting successful and fair and cleaning up as much as possible with health professionals. In particular, there is a range of reliefs brought by the novels of the Income Law. Many of these reliefs will apply back to 2005, for which tax forms will be issued next year. And it is not too important if some of these reliefs are briefly illuminated. In the income forecast, parental allowances will no longer have to be forecasted with the aid and assistance when the child is born if they are paid on the basis of acts of the State or local community. A special allowance is added for a dependent child who has the right to help and service in accordance with the provisions of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. It will also no longer be a tax allowance for a large family. The fee will be exempt from the benefits of athletes, nor will it be necessary to pay the late interest tax if they are paid on the basis of a court decision. It is very important to facilitate standardised costs for agriculture and complementary activities and for domestic trade. Normalised costs will rise by almost 3 times, from 25 to 70%, and for 2.1 million, that is to say from 3.9 million to 6 million, will also raise revenues for which the calculation of standardised costs applies. Thank you for the entire package of tax novels sent to us by the Chamber of Commerce is extremely public and I will read it as well. It is addressed to all coalition groups of Members as well as Members. It says, "Dear Mr. Jože Tanko! In the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, on behalf of Slovenian craftsmen and craftsmen, entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs, we find that coalition promises are being fulfilled for the faster entrepreneurial boom of Slovenia. On behalf of our members and members and other small entrepreneurs, we thank all Members of your parliamentary group for voting in favour of the proposed amendments to the tax package. Thus, you have proved to the Members that you agree with our long-standing proposals and demands and that in this way you contribute to the greater competitiveness and effectiveness of Slovenian craft and small economy in the legislative body. Thank you again for your affection for crafts and entrepreneurship. Respectfully, Miroslav Klun, President of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia." Relief in the residential area is also important. A 15-year tax relief of 4% of the tax base for the settlement of the housing issue may be applied following a new one, even if the payment is made through savings. So far, it has been possible to apply such a relief only for a year of purchase, that is, for the current year. And we think this change is very welcome. The longer possibility of applying a reduction in the tax base was granted only to those who paid by credit. I think it is completely unreasonable that such a favoured loan, a bank source and such a neglected savings, from which the savers had to pay even a fine or a tax on interest. Untaxed interest on earmarked payments will also be taxed to the reserve fund, which, according to the provisions of the Housing and Bond Law, are payable to the floor owners. You could still list it. This is a very important improvement and relief. The results on the assessment of income under the new law will be seen very quickly, even before the local elections next year, on which the opposition is betting so much. Since local elections are supposed to serve as a consolidation primarily in the National Assembly defeated by Liberal Democracy, these are messages from the Liberal Democracy addressed to the public, citizens must not feel that the current coalition, which carries out this mandate for the country, is much more favourable to them than the previous one. Therefore, at least where citizens are not organised, where they do not have very much access to the media, where they can be manipulated and seduced, it is necessary to do everything possible to implement the planned scenario. In this case, the enforcement of the Income Act is necessary, irrespective of the victims or the victims, irrespective of their justification and entitlement. And I think that such a follow-up to the political objective that we are witnessing is a bad sign for the country and a devastating sign for the citizens. Since the Liberal Democracy and Social Democracy are too weak to stop positive changes in the National Assembly, a veto was needed, the State Council has identified itself against it. Before that, we had heard a great deal of dissatisfaction at a union protest, which is incomprehensible with logic and common sense. The reform of tax legislation in this package is also an income that we accepted days ago and is part of the reform package, bringing tax reliefs to companies and citizens. Any taxable person who has to make a tax return shall be given the opportunity to enforce such reliefs and shall be given the opportunity to improve the situation. If you pay less taxes, you have more for personal consumption, you have a higher personal standard, you have more to develop. Some are crying and others are on the streets! And God help them! It is those who have not done much so far and for the social state who have caused much disintegration of society, which have created a handful of abnormal and mostly unjustifiably rich, who have fainted, when the thefts and the depletion of businesses occurred, and when workers were sent to the institution, or when directors became rich, billionaires, and poor workers, who are the ones most opposed to this law. These are the ones that made the owners and the employees for the tenants. I hope that we will be successful today and that this law will be reaffirmed. After many years of left governments, which are declared as social, as governments that care for citizens, we have, in fact, just today, for more than a decade for the first time, an opportunity to confirm the first visible step towards social justice and longer sustainability. And I hope that the "burden" in the narrations, this difficult decision, will not only fall on the coalition. In our party, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will reaffirm this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u27	Thank you, Mr. Tank. Mr. Mag. Anton Rop will present the position of the Slovenian Liberal Democrats Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u28	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Today we are discussing again the law on changes and additions to the law on income. Of course, I note that obviously we are not just talking about this law and these changes, but that some of you want to talk about other topics as well. It is a pity that we may be able to listen to each other, to hear the arguments, and perhaps to improve further. I regret that in such a flat-rate way the previous times are assessed and the current times are evaluated, and in particular the attempt to mislead the Slovenian public. It is possible that for the leader of the SDS Group, a tax change, which introduces a 35 billion lower tax burden on those with the lowest income, is a minimal change, that is a minor change in income and that sand is in the eyes. If so, Mr Tanko, why does the SDS not propose to increase these tax incentives? Then why does the SDS not propose a higher tax burden? Why is SDS today proposing to increase the tax burden precisely for those who have the lowest or average income in Slovenia. Of course, I also regret hearing here about reform and resentment over demonstrations, about what the social partners are doing. It's their right, it's their option, they've done it in the past, and it's right to do it, and they're doing it now, and it's not unusual. You may be able to point your finger at the previous government for some time, and I wish you very much luck in that, keep doing that. But there comes a time when the mirror will adjust and set you up. This is increasingly being done and will be done in the future. Everything will depend more and more on you. You are the one who have the parliamentary majority, you are the one who makes the decisions, and ultimately you will be the one who, hopefully, will also take responsibility for what you are doing. So today we have an opportunity to reconsider whether the solutions proposed by this government are really good, suitable for Slovenia. There is no doubt that some of the solutions in the proposal for amendments and additions are good and we practically all support them here. I am talking in particular about the introduction of a cedular taxation of some of the benefits of the population. Such solutions undoubtedly simplify the Slovenian tax system and improve it, so we all support such solutions. This also applies to some of the facilitations that appear in the proposal for these amendments; they are not disputed and will always be supported, publicly and in the vote. Regrettably, some of the solutions that are at issue in the draft amendments and the addition of the Income Act are certain solutions, some of which you are here alone, a representative of the government, representatives of the parliamentary groups of the government coalition, you simply do not talk about at all. Today we have not even seen one argument why these solutions are good, why these solutions are valid and how these solutions will improve the lives of Slovenian citizens and citizens. These are solutions that do not increase the competitiveness of the Slovenian tax system. These are solutions that do not in any way increase the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy. These are solutions that clearly introduce inequality, a great inequality among taxpayers, without real substantive arguments and reasons. The content argument and the reason for the demonstration is that the previous government is supposed to be here, and I don't know who else is the mirage. Of course, today we do well to say something about these solutions, perhaps even some that were less discussed in this opening part. The proposal for amendments and the addition of the Income Act significantly reduces the rate of taxation of capital gains by means of Cedural Taxation and Relatively Low Taxation. Therefore, taxation of those who can even realize such profits is the taxation of the most wealthy and the richest citizens and citizens of Slovenia. For those with large savings, it is estimated that between 5 and a maximum of 10 000, this tax decreases to 20, 15, 10, 5% and, after a certain period, also to 0%. Taxation, so there is no doubt about it, and I agree with that, so they will be the most powerful and the richest of them, when they are so far. It's a fact, it's a decision of this government, and in itself it's nothing wrong. This is nothing wrong, and we have not explicitly taken any action against this solution as a solution on our own. Of course, the problem is the context and the problem is the comparability of these taxes. If we compare these taxes, i.e. taxation of the richest, those with the largest assets, with other countries - you can look at this in the Rapporteur - you all got it, then you will see that the government, that the coalition, that you who vote today, propose that we have one more favourable tax for the rich in Slovenia. One of the more pleasant ones. If we look at comparable solutions, then you will see that this tax in Austria is 25%, that this tax in Finland is 28%, that in Sweden is 30%, we have 20, 15, 10, 5 and 0%. Clearly, then, these changes reduce the tax burden on those who are the richest, who can invest their savings not only in the banking system, but also in capital investments in the securities market. However, we are also witnessing an increase in the tax burden with these changes that we are witnessing today. The proposal for these amendments to the Income Act introduces interest on deposits for all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. As taxes are reduced for those who are the richest in this society, the tax burden increases for all others. These changes eliminate 300,000 tolls of interest as a margin under which no income is paid. Therefore, when tax is introduced for the richest in Slovenia, which is among the more favourable in Europe, it is taxed at the same time, in a new and additional way, more than one million Slovenian taxpayers. For the richest, we will have a more favourable solution than in Europe, and for the poorest and those with average incomes among the less favourable in Europe. So we're becoming an interesting country. Some types of tax oasis for the rich and the poor, but for them it is necessary to raise taxes and extra burden them. So for more than a million people who have average income. Such tax solutions are not known in comparable countries, not in Austria, not in Germany and not in Belgium. Borders everywhere, everywhere and in most European countries try, and they do, to relieve those who have average and under-average incomes. The Minister of Finance told us here today that it's not that bad. That was the only argument we heard today why you're being taxed extra. He says that in 2006, and he has even repeated this twice, they will not be taxed in 2006, only in 2007 and only in 2008 will they be taxed in full. Of course, this is not an argument, even the opposite. After the introduction of the euro, I hope, of course, the substantial public funding constraints, we will further increase taxation of those with average and under-average incomes. Finally, let me draw attention to the study that I have already pointed out the consequences of this type of interest tax, which warns and speaks of the fact that such taxation can also affect the competitiveness of the Slovenian banking system, the competitiveness of Slovenian banks. The fact is that this reduces the effective interest rate normally if you raise the interest rate. These are solutions that are bad, that are not good, that are not developmental, that are solutions that we can jointly reject today if we are prepared to do so. Finally, in the changes we are witnessing today, we are also witnessing the special, special treatment of those who have received denationalisation bonds. Therefore, according to the proposal of the law, interest on these bonds is specifically and specifically excluded from taxation. Only those who receive or will receive 200 billion Slovenian bonds only for those who have these bonds paid at a 6% interest rate, only for those whose bond price on the securities market is 107, so the denationalisation bond price on the securities market is 107, which means that these bonds are already good, liquid, that they can be traded and that it is possible to exchange these bonds at any time for cash. So it's more than the same cash. In other words, it means that someone with, for example, a million euro bonds and not so few, if he sells these bonds at this point, he can get another 70,000 euros. These are favourable bonds, the bonds set by the Denationalisation Act, the bonds whose profitability has been established in this National Assembly and are good. Nevertheless, the Government proposes special reliefs for this group, without interpretation, without arguments, without any developmental meaning. For them alone, the subsidy is foreseen, which can be calculated until the end of the adoption of around 20 billion bonds, only giving them 20 billion, not workers, not farmers, not young families, not everyone else in the country. All these others will have to pay taxes on all interest. Is this for this, as Mr Tanko says, because these citizens and these citizens, all these others, more than a million of them, are not well organised? Is that why you decided to tax you separately? Some groups don't, and these groups certainly don't. In fact, by actually amending the law on denationalisation, the government has reached an area that is completely different. And I myself propose to the government, if it considers that the law on denationalisation was not good, it is not good to correct it, to come to the national assembly with a law on denationalisation and foresight for those who are beneficiaries of denationalisation, new benefits, transparent, in front of the entire Slovenian public, so that we all know what this is about and what the government wants to achieve. Dear Members and Members! The proposed changes and additions to the Income Act, to which we point, do not in any way increase tax competitiveness in Slovenia. They introduce illogical tax inequalities and favor certain, richest groups of Slovenian taxpayers. They increase and introduce a new tax burden on more than one million Slovenian taxpayers. And like I said, they only burden the richest and tax everyone else. These are the solutions, as Mr Tanko said before, under previous governments there was no way to dream. Of course, we cannot support and support such solutions in the parliamentary club.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u29	Thank you, Mr. Rope. There will be a debate between Members and Members. Mr. Janko Weber has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u30	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! The Income Act is certainly one of the most important laws, as it directly touches every individual, and it is not least a copy or a guide that Slovenia is supposed to have in the European space, especially in the most developed European countries, that is, the European Union, to which Slovenia has successfully entered, and, last but not least, a reflection of its thinking as compared to other global trends and situations in countries. For Slovenia, in this European and global context, it is very important that it is among the smaller countries, but that it must be so much more flexible, so flexible and somehow more flexible if I can say so, as is the possibility in some major countries. Faster, in particular, in order to enable the creation of a mechanism for youth creativity, creativity that enables investment in research and development, and in particular, which should allow for, last but not least, better competitiveness for companies, but also reducing unnecessary administrative barriers to this. The approach taken under the Income Act to try to resolve, in particular, some narrow interests within the country by individual social groups and to ignore this extremely important position of Slovenia in the European Union, shows that, in fact, the applicants have not been sufficiently broad in their thinking and these differences, which will certainly follow, among the richer and all others, are not a good way to think about young people, to create many jobs and also to make an extremely large effort to achieve the best possible results in these jobs, as the risk of an individual will be significantly greater than it has ever been. This threat is never an environment that encourages thinking and development. Thus, these differences resulting from this Income Act are certainly one of the key reasons why I will not support these changes in the law myself. The concrete measures that we have tried to implement, and I have also advocated in the process of adopting this law, in some parts have also been aimed at decommissioning some social groups, but in doing so I have always tried to find solutions, as well as other colleagues, to bring these burdens through greater efficiency of these social groups also more favourable consequences for the budget itself or for public finances. I therefore objected to interfering with the capital market in a way that is not European comparable. This European incomparability is certainly reflected in the fact that someone who has received denationalisation bonds can, in fact, quietly monitor what is happening in Slovenia, what is happening in the world and the future is not concerned, because he has a guaranteed return, then he is exempt from interest in this return or taxation of interest due to this return, and if you make a comparison here with other countries, if you make a comparison with others who are trying to improve their position through the capital market, it is one of the key inequalities that also affects the capital market itself, because in Slovenia it is becoming less interesting or even possible to have some an anomaly that this capital market can place in a very unmatched position with other countries. It seems unreasonable to me in particular that in this capital market, in fact, it is also somehow impossible for young people in particular to actively resolve their desires through the measures they have at their disposal. Taking into account that real estate and securities and shares in companies, cooperatives and other forms of organisation are considered capital under this law, we can quickly find that there are very few young people who can buy real estate and own this property for 20 years and only after 20 years when this burden is the lowest, they can cash it in the capital market. Those who have the money can wait 20 years, those who want to elevate a small deposit within an acceptable time frame will never come to it or, if they come to it, will be quite well taxed in the meantime. This incomparability with Europe shows, however, that in this capital market or capital, Europe does not think that this speculative deadline is 20 years, but that this speculative deadline is 1 year, we have even proposed five years to somehow try to capture all the legalities that apply in these markets and thus prevent speculation. A longer term than five years is unacceptable to us. We have also made this very clear in our additions, but unfortunately this has not been established. However, I reiterate that the biggest disadvantage of this will be for those who may have solved the housing problem for the first time, trying to sell this property to get a two-bedroom apartment, and if sold earlier than in 20 years, the taxation of this sale will be significantly higher than in other European countries. The solutions that we have proposed have also been about stimulating those who for the first time solve their housing problem. Unfortunately this was not accepted either we tried to improve the relief provided by the law for rescue workers, i.e. for those who solve the housing problem. We wanted to increase the percentage, from 2% to 4% tax base for those who solve the housing problem. And above all, it seems to us that it is very important that we are looking for suitable solutions in the housing sector, which are a little faster to start because housing construction has an extremely positive impact both on economic growth and on social security, and not least on higher incomes in the budget, because the dynamics of building housing employs and makes it possible for entrepreneurs, craftsmen, larger companies, etc. By slightly increasing this relief, the revenue in the budget would certainly be significantly higher. And this has been an all-time approach to our supplements, because even the reduction of taxation, and not least the recreational supplement, seems to us to be extremely important because if someone decides to try more actively to spend their leisure time, holidays, etc., and by doing so, we have done a great deal for our public finances if we reduce waiting types. Unfortunately, all of this is not followed by this law, so even on this occasion, when it has been vetoed, I will not support it, and I want to have significantly better income solutions, as recorded in this law right now.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u31	Thank you, Mr. Weber. Mr. Sok, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u32	Thank you so much for saying that. Honourable President, Honourable Minister with fellow Members and all present! For a short period of time, I will only define myself to the three points referred to by the representative of the Council of State. In fact, I heard what he said here at the start of the Liberal Democracy and I would say that he even used the same words, the same sentences. While, on one side of the Chamber of Commerce or Chamber of Commerce of the Republic of Slovenia, we receive thanks to the National Assembly for this package of tax changes, and this thanks has been signed by Mr Klun, I would not say that an official on the right political field, but he has run for office on the list of the United List, we receive from the State Council a veto on this law. That's a really weird logic, and it's a weird country. You basically listed three points for which you decided to veto. First of all, you say article 43 of the law, where there is no equal position in students. You say that work for a student is necessary for survival, that they can study and that they are not treated in the same way from a tax point of view. I think the Minister of Finance has quite clearly explained this matter and what you're saying is of course not true. Students are up to 1.2 million, says 100,000 per month, untaxed. Do you, as a representative of the State Council, know how many workers in this country receive less than 100,000 net wages per month? You say they need to be treated in such a way that we can further stimulate student work and thus actually consume jobs to those who do not have a job and prolong studies, which is already an abnormal debt in this country. This is then your contribution in this reform sense, which needs to be changed in this country. Really, it's sad to hear that from the state world. At the second point, you repeat the same thing, that the tax is exempt or that the interest is taxed, which is not true. The following year, up to 300,000 tolls per year of unpaid interest are reduced to 150 000 in 2007. Do you really think that 1 million Slovenians, what the leader of the parliamentary group, Mr Rop, says, will move 1 million Slovenians to bank more than 7 million dollars to write off these interest annually? If that is what you mean, then I will tell you that you are living in great confusion, because the government led by the Liberal Democracy did not allow workers with the wages they have to save anything, nor could farmers and pensioners. The Pensions Act was one of the laws that we had to correct first, that we somehow corrected what the previous government coalition had adopted as its first major achievement in this area. Thirdly, you're talking about denationalisation bonds. As a representative of the Council of State, you have stated here that the state will give this 12 billion interest per year. Mr. Rob raised it to 20 billion. I would suggest you agree to know what amount we're talking about and how you're calculating it. Nor is it true here that this law would be as conceptual as it was presented. It is the fact that 50% of these interest rates are taxed, even though many in this national assembly feel that this is not logical, but this has been created as a compromise proposal at the request of opposition members on the committee itself and has also been adopted by consensus. If we don't confirm the law, then the bond is taxed at 0. This was adopted in May 2004. And that is what the law on denationalisation says, and today, Mr Rop invites us to propose a recast of the law on denationalisation. It is indeed a mockery of the fact that for more than, I don't know, 12, 13 years in this country, this denationalisation issue is being addressed. And it's not completely solved today. Of course, the solution would be if the governments led by LDS representatives or politicians had returned their assets long ago. That would be the only logical solution. Everything else is pure demagogy. Let me get this straight. There would be no denationalisation if there was no nationalisation. I've said that many times. On one occasion, Minister Capuder spoke one of the truths that I remembered very well. So he said, "Communist power after II." For 20 years she used what she confiscated after the war, then ruled for 20 years on the basis of what they borrowed abroad. When one and the other were gone, they withdrew from power so that they could return with their entry. Today, this is a long past that these generations, which are not to blame for, must actually bear on their own burdens. In the parliamentary group, as well as in ourselves, we will once again support the marriage. We regret that the State Council thus accompanied us with a veto on this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u33	Thank you, Mr. Sok. Mrs. Breda Bakan. [[She's not here.]] Mr. Willie Rezman, you have the floor. You're not on. [[...]] Mr. Squeakle, I'm warning you, if you're going to abuse the rules of procedure, I'm going to take your word immediately. Here you go. Procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would suggest procedurally because Mr. Sok has said something that is not true [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u35	Mr. Squeakl, I take your word for it, because the procedural proposal knows how it can be. Mr. Willie Rezman, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u36	Thank you very much. I will be very brief so as not to waste too much time on my colleague Žnidaršič. I'd like to say this. Some things have also been recognised among coalition partners in the income law as being not the best. That is why we have also agreed that we will table an amendment to fix this, but we have been procedurally, not substantively, clumsy and have fallen for this reason. This is also why we predict that we will prepare, I hope together, a proposal to amend the law. As far as students are concerned, there is also more favor on our part of the student than is usually found here in the hall, so long as we do not know how to regulate what we do not now with our budget - better subsidies for nutrition, better subsidies for transportation, more student homes, better scholarships. So long as we don't let them do that, they're gonna have to worry about their own student work.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u37	Thank you, Mr. Rezman. Mr. Joseph Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Good-bye to all of you again! The distinguished representative of the Council of State, Mr Rado Krpač, said in his performance the following: [[reading magnetogram]] : "With the amendment of the law, paragraphs 54 and 57, 300 thousand dollars of interest shall be abolished below the limit under which no income shall be paid. This not only reduces the tax competition of Slovenia, but allows so small, unemployed workers and pensioners, students and students, as large savers, to pay the interest tax regardless of the amount of the savings account. So they save caring, honest, disadvantaged citizens of socially weaker and more vulnerable social groups that save, for example, for oil or possibly even for their funeral." I respect every citizen's opinion, but I'm sure it's good - and I really suggest that we read again what this new law on income actually brings about with regard to taxation of interest. The Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Act provides that the taxation of interest on savings deposits in 2006 and 2007 will be subject to a transitional solution, namely, in 2006, interest up to 300,000 dollars on an annual basis is exempt from income payments and in 2007 up to 150 000 dollars; and the rate of tax in those years is equal to 15%. How much, Mr. Kraut, is 300 grand in interest? What's the head start supposed to be? The Income Act is certainly a law when, in the National Assembly on these benches, we should probably get additional pencils and calculators in addition to the material. If I want to get 300,000 tolls in 12 months, I have to, let's say, on the thumb, not at the conformal rate, after a normal percentage calculation, have 5 million deposits, if the interest rate is 6% or if it's less, 6 or 7 million. By linking this to your statement, it means that the socially vulnerable and weaker social groups in our country, who are therefore beaten by this amendment of the law, have an account of 5 million more. Please don't make fun of really socially weak groups. As far as student work is concerned, today this has already been mentioned, the ceiling for student work, the ceiling earns a million 600,000 tolars. How much is that? Do you know what the average salary of a Muri worker, a manufacturing worker, is? It is below the minimum wage and the minimum wage is 122,600 monthly gross. It is said that Murin's production worker with an extra working time earns, let me tell you, a million 500, a million 600, says, at the level of this student. And there are 30% of those workers in Mura, and he still employs and Mura is still alive, thank God, and employs 4,500 people. I'm in favour of the students being well placed, but the first task of the students is to study, and here is our big problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u39	Thank you, Mr. Horvath. Here you go, Mr. Bojan Kontic.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A respected minister with co-workers and co-workers, colleagues and colleagues! First of all, let me express my disagreement with the fact that someone who is running for office on one of the political parties is later identified as someone who has no right to think with his head and is forever written down as it was when he was running for office. This can probably be said only by someone who has very bad experience within his client, where it is not allowed to think with his head and take his decisions, and I will talk about it a little later when I explain why I will support or support the veto and vote against this proposed law. We have also been taught history or history analysis, but this often happens when solutions are somehow blurred, we go back and look for reasons for disagreements in the past and also for a system that was marked as extremely bad until the 1990s. Even those who have or have studied in the former system and are sitting in this Parliament today with the education acquired during socialism. I welcome the fact that the Council of State has decided to veto this law and has actually given us the opportunity to reconsider and weigh this law once again on bad and good solutions. As it cannot be said that all the solutions proposed are bad, it is not possible to say, of course, that all the solutions proposed are good. And when we weigh this, at least in person with me and as I am aware of in the Group of Social Democrats, the arguments that indicate that this law is bad and that it is worth rejecting have been reconsidering. And there's no excuse for it on the state council. The Council of State has taken advantage of its option and has proposed a veto. The coalition in the National Assembly, so it is in parliamentary democracy, the government must have a majority in Parliament, and that is 46 Members and more. And if this majority in Parliament is, although the adoption of the law is somewhat delayed, the law is certainly adopted in the so-called fourth treatment as it is today. There were also things about the ratings regulated by this law, and there were concerns that this law could only be supported because it took care of Members and others who have a telephone which has a parking space that has all these matters, so that this law could be adopted in a good way. This argument does not outweigh the other weaknesses enshrined in the law. One of the important things is taxation of interest. However, the arguments, not the arguments of the LDS, and the arguments of the Social Democrats were not sufficiently valid for the coalition roller, which is constantly rolling, overrun everyone, regardless of the content proposal, it is important who is signed under this proposal. And when I said that things were changing, I thought, and I will now be referring to the amendment that I have put into the procedure several times in the history of this previous Parliament and the current one when we were considering the Income Act. This is the taxation of the remuneration received by working persons with disabilities for a period when they are not actually employed and are in a pension and disability institution. In the past, employers paid an income advance, i.e. they charged and paid for the part of the time spent by the disabled in the workplace, and the pension and disability insurance institution did not do so. According to the information I have, this year's instructions have begun to account for the payment of the income, but it is necessary to note that this income or income should be charged in such a way that this net remuneration is first converted into gross and then accounted for, by no means, for this part of the remuneration received or received by disabled workers for the time they are in the institution for pension and disability insurance in order to account for the income from this compensation. This means that their remuneration is reduced, some even by 2 to 3 compensations when they charge their income at the end of the year. This, of course, is not fair, and it would be right to settle this in the law. And you didn't listen to it in this term when you were in the government coalition. In the previous term, when you were in the opposition, you supported and rejected my amendment or the amendment of the Members we signed under it, or then you rejected or rejected the government amendment that regulated it as it was written in the law. So in this case, in this adoption of the law, you have changed your mind and supported the view that this does not go hand in hand with this amendment of the law, despite the fact that this was also announced at the beginning of the mandate, and that this solution was somehow attached by both competent ministers for this area, so Mag. A trifle like Dr. Bajuk. The rest is the same, and this is another valid reason for me to press the counter button today when we decide on this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u41	Thank you very much, Mr. Conticy. Happy Hwauc has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u42	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u43	Mr. Hwauc, please, then I'll give you my word for the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u44	Thanks again. The applicant’s explanation also referred to students as the reason for one group, which is getting worse because of this income law. I would first ask myself why students in recent years had to study in such a way that they ensured some standard that they worked through student service, why the parents of these students were not, in the vast majority of the workers, so that they could normally finance their children's studies. That's the question. We do these things in a slightly different way. We want to create such conditions in society and in the economy so that everyone can create more to raise the standard so that students can study so that parents can support their children. The point is that at a time when students are mature for it, they study and complete their studies as soon as possible, and return to the economy or society immediately, do not come back, but start to work actively and then start to create themselves. I do not see any particular problems in these changes relating to student work. First, it's a very small group of students and students, very small, percentage, two percent possible. The other thing is, students should study when it is time to study, but not study, which is still at the expense of the country, indefinitely and, on the other hand, when they work through a student service through which work is substantially less taxed than that of the workers, in some ways reduce the possibility of employees being employed. Therefore, it seems to me that the resistance of some students is significantly more the resistance of a narrow group that has sought a privileged position within this system. Last but not least, students who are 28 years old, I don't think they're some sort of representative sample, but they're actually students who may have missed something in life. As a result, I feel that this law needs to be reconfirmed, and I will do so myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u45	Thank you, Mr. Hwauc. Mr. Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Mr. Kontic mentioned me, so I asked for a replica. Thanks for getting it, even though I should get it right away. What I would like to say to Mr Kontic and others is, above all, that we have proposed amendments in order to try to fix a bad marriage with them. This law went in a completely different direction on the issue of taxation of interest, as adopted by the so-called Marble Act. In May 2004, the National Assembly passed a law that would ensure that everyone in Slovenia paid no interest at the first 300,000 dollars and then started paying interest. Mr. Sok said it wrong. Even the denationalisation beneficiaries would be exempt from the first 300,000 tolars and then pay all 20%, 50%, depending on the rate of interest they receive, as is paid by the richest, who are not, say, denationalising beneficiaries. In this respect, the government of Mr Janša and Mr Bajuk went to correct this knowingly. Otherwise, I do not know, given what I asked Mr Janša whether he knew exactly that, I also assume that Mr Šircel is now appointed Secretary of State, that there is little possibility that the Prime Minister will know exactly what is changing in tax legislation. But the point is very simple: tax legislation, the income law has made Slovenia clear, because it will take everyone, the middle layer, the pensioners, everyone who saves, every fifth tolar of interest will go for the needs of the state, even for all the nonsense that the state is doing, while one special group, which has been taxed with the Marble Law, will be excluded from this. That is why I believe that the State Council has prepared the veto very correctly, and I believe that this is a serious political issue, not only because of the students, but because we are creating a different society - a society where only some, the richest, should have prosperity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u47	Thank you, Mr. Squeakle. Mr. Bogdan Barovich. [[He's not here.]] Franz Horvath. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Milenko Ziherl, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u48	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Nice greetings to all present! I think it is necessary to re- back up the law, because all the events so far point to this. I have in mind a particularly favourable response to the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, because we facilitated the operation of Slovenian craftsmen by this law, especially the representatives of the craftsmanship which deals with cultural heritage. I'd like to talk to you about college work. I have calculated that if the same legality were applied for students as for us Members, in order to be able to carry out their basic work, that is, study and activities at the university, to carry out another 20% of profitable activities, that would be 36 hours per month or 40 hours per month, which is essentially enough to pay 100,000 payments, which is now exempt from income. As soon as they exceed this number of hours, they are no longer students, but they are already employed or are students at work. I would also like to draw attention to the status of denationalisation beneficiaries. I would point out that they did not become voluntary shareholders of the SOD, but were forced to do so by experiencing 50 years of personal trauma, a difficult life experience. In the case of a well-known Cranian entrepreneur, who has also been wronged, I can only conclude and make some probabilities of the calculation of how much the Slovenian economy lost when his company or his family came into non-economic hands at the time of nationalisation, where the value of the company, the value of the products was lost from day to day, from year to year, the entrepreneur himself was exiled to England after he had been sentenced to prison. Vitale, as he was, made a doctorate there, and then returned to Slovenia. 50 years of wasted time or the possibility of someone working at home successfully. That's why I think it's necessary to support the law once again. But I don't know exactly where the propensity was for the state council to vote the veto. Perhaps simply because they had not been mentioned for a long time and wanted to become visible, I see no other reason. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u49	Thank you, Mr. Ziherl. Mr. Christian Janz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Mr. President. There is no minister, a representative of the Council of State, a colleague and a colleague! We discussed this law a lot in this National Assembly, and the position and opposition have said a lot about good and bad. It is an important matter, an important law that touches each of us, every citizen of the Republic of Slovenia. The Council of State took advantage of this right, found out in its debate and after the vote found and vetoed this law and came up with his own arguments. This is his right, which he has exercised and it is nothing like that, after all, this is his mission, which he also manages as a state council. I do not claim that this law is ideal, that we will never bring together the ideal to make every aspect of the population well written to every individual on the skin. This simply cannot be done, it cannot be done at the best of will, I would say, even in the national assembly, and probably not in the government. Going back to the past, history, I don't think it's productive either. It is better to look forward to what this law brings better than the old law, and I say that it certainly brings better, positive for our citizens than the old law, which, unfortunately, we admit or not, very bad, very untransparent and also very much, I would say, written after some mistake to say so. I will also confirm this law once again, despite all the concerns the opposition has, which also hold and drink water in some respects. But perhaps in the future, because we are around in one year, I might want more of this mutual constructive cooperation for the benefit of as good a law as possible. Last but not least, always be on the side that always what the government is proposing may not be optimal. Perhaps this voice that some individuals have in this area try to introduce into even better legislation. And that would be the wise, positive work of this Parliament and government, and ultimately we work for citizens of this kind and different, for all citizens. Speaking of student works and so on, you know, we've talked about this a lot. This instrument of student work is being severely abused in Slovenia. Definitely. Today, especially those who do not have any connection with the student and do much work in service activities on such or other routes, and this is literally unfair competition for those who are regularly employed in such or other industries. That's one big problem. If this were exclusively for students who really are students, this problem would be imaginary. This is not and therefore is being used specifically in catering, trade, tourism extremely large. Today there are such or other places, which do not even have employees anymore, but only student travels, so I think compared to those in a working relationship, unfair competition and here some things to limit, it seems smart and meaningful and for the purposes of this work. Although about the students, like I said, everything's good and proper. I hope that this law will receive 46 votes and that it will enter into force and hope in future laws, so that we will also have more mutual cooperation at points that will make an even better contribution to the drafting of all the laws adopted by this national assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u51	Thank you, Mr. Janz. I don't see the kind of Members on the list. Gnidaršič, Presječnik, Dobrajc, Kovacich, Kangler. Is anyone here? [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Magg has the word. Milan M. Squeakle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u52	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I think that everything that matters in this law has been said in the first place, but now the fundamental question is whether the government is capable of doing what would be the best next move. And that is to suggest to the ruling coalition that the law is not approved today and that the government amends, complements and introduces those changes to the law that are correct. It is kind of sad that we are a year after Mr Janša and Mr Bajuk said that they would prepare proper changes to the income legislation in some way in the same situation. The state council says this law is for a referendum. That's right. If we tax all Slovenians and Slovenians in paying interest by this law needlessly, unlike all European countries, and this will cause a lot of spillovers in neighbouring countries where, due to the special status they have chosen, they do not report on these interest rates, then this is undoubtedly the law that Slovenians and Slovenians are asked about. I believe that, like students who feel primarily because of an unfulfilled agreement with the Minister of Finance and Government, they have been deceived and have therefore demonstrated that many who believe that the tax legislation of Mr Janša and Mr Bajuk, as proposed by the Income Act, is not the right way to regulate relations in Slovenia. It is simply that, according to the principle of righteousness, everyone should pay according to his economic power and therefore it is not right to exclude those who have the most when everything is taxed. And this is a key point to this law. In our nine-hour debate on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, we proposed amendments to address this problem. I couldn't believe it myself when I asked the Minister of Finance, "Did you make a mistake in this article, or are you really going to cancel the tax withdrawal completely?" The answer was, "Yes, we're going to do that..." for these reasons and these reasons. It is said that there is no other way to calculate or calculate tax returns. That's just not true. Germany, Belgium, a number of countries know how to do this. It's very easy to do that. It is simple to determine the financial instrument to which this applies and then the minister, the government, whoever does it, can also. Not out of fear of being able to tax interest, but simply to say that everyone has to pay. But I don't think it's a story in technique. The story is in the philosophy of governance. Because in the philosophy of government rule we now have, it is necessary to give someone, through Mercator, through denationalisation interest relief, through the special position and status of the richest in the capital market. And since it is given to someone, of course, it is necessary to take it. And by this law shall all the Slovenes and the Slovenes be taken away: every fifth toll shall be taken from every interest. And that's just because you say some people are going to fix the law. People who have annual, two-year deposits today are deciding for a year, two forwards and, of course, today you will tell them by this law that they should no longer have annual, two-year, three-year deposits, because of course you will take every major toll away from them, so I suggest that you reject the law and that the government do what it has been saying all year long, prepare a revised law on income. It's time for the government to start ruling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u53	Thank you, Mr. Squeakle. Mr. Starman has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor! I would like once again to point out that I would not like to attend or support what some have suggested not to confirm this law. I would not like to deprive a huge number of taxpayers of all the benefits that follow from this law from the law that we have already passed, and I hope that we will confirm it. There is almost no category where there would be no improvement in the situation, more equitable taxation of capital incomes in a cedulatory manner than the previous one, when different for different income classes. I will not list all the categories, all the matters, but I think it is the willingness of the government and all of us who are working together to reduce the tax burden on our taxpayers, who are covered here, that this is actually the maximum possible debt, so I think it is right to support this issue of course. The biggest things here are related to the increased, amended tax bases that can apply and probably apply to all these things in return, and I would not like to be involved in depriving these positive movements of this law, most of them, almost virtually all taxpayers in Slovenia, so, of course, this law will fail again and I hope, on this side of interest, it would probably be necessary to correct this in order to set some threshold, but it is still time for this matter to be resolved, or to change the law. I support 100% of this law and I am glad that the government has been prepared to cut so much into its budget register and reduce the burden of all taxpayers in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u55	Thank you, Mr. Starman. Mr. Lakhovnik has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u56	Thank you very much. I personally appreciate that the veto of the State Council has been fully justified, the law is weak, professionally lacking and what is worst, the law is unjust, not equal to all citizens. From 2008 onwards, all citizens will pay 20% of the tax on each toll, the only exception is denationalisation bonds holders and these bonds have a higher average yield, 6% per annum yield, while all other citizens who will - say, take the example of a young family that will save money for the apartment, will have 3% to 4% of the return and will pay this tax. It will even be able to face negative returns due to high inflation. On the other hand, you have a category of citizens that you generously give them something. And you give this gift, you give this gift to the most powerful, which of course is completely illogical, completely meaningless and unequal to all citizens. Of course, I cannot support this law in any way because it is unjust. And once again, this time, the veto of the state world was completely in place and it would be time for all of us to think together about what we are doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u57	Thank you, Mr. Lakhovnik. Mr. Bajc has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u58	Thank you, Mr. President. In the beginning, when I presented the position of the Slovenian People's Party, I found that maybe the law - or I will say when I listen to the debate today - in which of the areas is not the most optimal. No marriage, as some of my predecessors have said, can be optimal for everyone, but still. When I listen to the debates and say yes, why not confirm the veto of the state council, reject the law, the government prepare a new law - we are not in January of the month, it is today, I think we are a holiday and we are December 8th. And when I think about whether to confirm or not, I find that there is a substantial number of good solutions in this law for the citizens of this country, whose representatives we are in this national assembly, and that veto must be rejected. And as I presented in the introduction the position of the Slovenian People's Party, it is likely that the law will also be experienced in the coming year - but I hope that not again next year or that it will have to be fixed twice as valid in one year - certain improvements in some areas. As it is said, in the interest of those who are significantly more numerous and directly pursued by this law, although technically some areas are likely to need to be prepared on the basis of this law in order to follow the coming year, it will be very difficult, I will support the decision of the home labour body. Once again, I look forward to finding solutions together in other areas in the future. The anachronism of today's debate is the following - and we also probably have some work to do in amending the law on the state council or the rules of procedure of the national assembly when it comes to veto. We're talking about everything today, but we're talking very little about the veto itself. What can we do? In the end, we can only vote yes or no. And we can argue that some solutions are good, others are bad, but only these two can be done. In this area, too, we are facing a change of legislation or of the rules of procedure on the work of the National Assembly. If that were possible, I think that maybe the government or the government's professional services, when they combed through and listened to us and long, long hours late into the night, would find that maybe there is a solution that is not the best, or maybe it could be improved. But he doesn't have this option right now. And for that reason, in the interest of those who get more out of this law than those who get less, I will support the conclusion of the parent's working body. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u59	Thank you, Mr. Baitz. Mr. Potts, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u60	Thank you very much. I tried to closely follow the debate to see if there were any rational reasons why I might have adjusted my position, but after discussion I found that there were very few. If you tell us that we have defended the veto and that we will not support the law this time, that we have not talked about the content, then I must say that this applies equally or much more to those who said that the law should be supported. Why? Some of you were wondering why it was vetoed. Those who have read the position of the State Council know why it is a veto day. He can be wrong, but he can't say he doesn't know why it's day, and he can't. The ones you talked about thanking us at the trade hall. Yeah, they wrote to me, too, to all of us. Thank them for thanking me, but not for the law on income. Read it. At the time we adopted five laws, and also our parliamentary group has supported many, including the law that improved the terms of the tradesmen at the expense of the tax on the invoiced, not on the paid realization. That's a good solution. We supported the reduction of the tax on paid wages. We had a different concept, but the government has one. The government simply thinks that the tax on paid salaries should be reduced most to high wages for companies, but we said that it was enforced because of the concept, helping the labour-intensive industries, and it was not accepted. But that's why we didn't reject the law. So, of course, at this point, to say that it isn't, we don't know why someone was friendly to the law, but why not, it's purely seductive. Talking about unions not being allowed on the road. Listen, gentlemen, this is simply a picture of more of those who say this than a picture of those who were. Me and many of my colleagues were also among those who attended the protest meeting. Why? Not as Members, because we did not appear in either picture or make statements. We were like citizens because we are convinced that the union has such a right and because we are convinced that cooperation between the government and the social partners is essential for the good of reforms. Because we don't speak, sociologists, economists and others say that without the consent of most people, such a difficult supply cannot be done. And now to report that someone wants to warn that so far there has been no such cooperation is a very, very sad story. And the one who points out this is saying that he is doing bad things for the state and destructive things for the citizens. Gentlemen, in the opposition of this, unfortunately, or fortunately, we cannot work. This can be done by you, who are in the coalition, by making decisions and by your majority. Consider whether you may ever act badly for the country and be destructive to the citizens and that it would be worth any warning given by any one of your kind to listen to, or only by voting and by the majority, to accept, whatever you imagine. And the last. I have already pointed out that the last report of the Supervisory Committee of the Slovenian Indemnity Society of October 2005 has pointed out what will be happening to us due to the obligations we have until compensation is made on the basis of denationalisation. We will come into an ugly minus and we are already coming and will have to use the taxes of citizens and citizens in order to cover this obligation of the country. We are now further exempting interest if we did not do so, at least reduce this obligation, now we will without the need for net inequality in front of citizens [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u61	Thank you, Mr. Run. Mr. Jelinčič is not here. Mr. Rop has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u62	Mr. President, thank you very much. Dear Members, Members of Parliament, Mr. Secretary! Today we witnessed an interesting discussion. There have been many discussions, but I myself have heard very few arguments by the positions Members who support the current government on the arguments why this ruling coalition is, this government, why you have decided not to support these solutions in these areas, which are undoubtedly controversial, which are in the sky. In fact, everything else we've heard, but not the arguments why you support it, not the argument why you support the abolition of the 300,000-dollar limit, not the arguments for why it is necessary to have a special treatment in the case of those who own denationalisation bonds. The feeling is that the arguments are not important, that it is important that you have the right majority, that you will support this appropriate majority of the bad solution without reflection and without reflection. Sometimes it seems that there is also misunderstanding, particularly in some areas, we have talked about this today, and once again, because some of you have spoken here, it is true that there will be no interest tax in 2006 and will be fully enforced in 2008. If you are making this easier, I suggest that you think about it and give such reliefs to students, farmers, pensioners, all Slovenian citizens. I am also pleased that there is no doubt that some parliamentary groups have also found, within your position, that the solutions are bad and that you have great problems in supporting them. So, let me stress, we support [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u63	Mr. Rob, it's time. Thank you very much, Mr. Rope. There's still a government. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor! Any debate on the tax procedure or on taxes in any Parliament in the world is the subject of major debates, large differences and it is perfectly understandable that we do not all have the same views as to how to raise certain issues. I just want to focus on the two issues that have been raised here. As far as the taxation of student work is concerned, I think there have been too many discussions and it is clear what our position is on this issue. As far as interest is concerned. The law currently in force has introduced a very high degree of progress in taxing all revenue. At the same time, when this law was passed in this house and the principle of universality of income was established, that is, all income, either from any part of any activity or from passive income, was taxed on the same progressive scale. What does it suggest is the basis of this bill, which is now under discussion again? That passive revenues are excluded from this and taxed on a proportional scale only in response, and this is crucial, in response to the inevitable fact that we live not only in a globalised world, but that in fact Slovenia belongs to one specific area in which the free movement of people and capital applies. What does that mean? Yes, if [[..]] [[Incomprehensible.]] the neighbouring countries, when we actually have a 15% interest tax, then any other decision on our part has openly invited the Slovenians and Slovenians, our citizens and citizens to make money to save their lives abroad. [[..]] Regardless of what principles we have, whether they agree with progressiveity or want to see greater or different, I think that in one we can all agree, and this is that we must create such conditions that saving our own people will remain in our own system, not that we will invite them to invest elsewhere under tax legislation. That's a key argument. We can have different views and obviously have different views of whether this is an x percentage or a larger or a smaller percentage. There are also different views as to whether it is necessary and necessary to maintain a certain relief. Even that, I think we can all have different views. But there's one thing we can't have a different view of. The decision to abstain in the course of 2006 is the same as before, and that is, 300,000 interest reliefs will apply until 31.12.2006. Then she'll fall in half. Half of this, 150,000, is very similar if we take real value, to what were the conditions prevailing when this national council adopted this law. The interest rates were at least 60% higher than they are now. When the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopted this law 300,000 today, there may have been about 200 or maybe a little more. I am talking about things that will not happen tomorrow will not happen 1.1.2006, but will only start to happen 1.1.2007 and then 1.1.2008 will disappear. Why would they disappear? Your Honor! The argument is of a professional nature, and this is due to the principle that tax legislation should not create specific conditions and privilege certain forms of investment. And the question to which this National Assembly must also answer: Is the National Assembly ready to still create better conditions for banks in relation to other ways of saving? That's a legitimate question. And I know and I am aware that it is very possible that there will be any change before the end of 2006 and that we may be able to apply what they also have in some countries that there is a minimum relief for bank deposits. Okay. But we don't need that today. The rejection of this law or veto does not create any new condition, as far as 2006 is concerned, is only to make the operation of this country more difficult because we will have problems with the adoption of the budget and the implementation of the budget. If that's what the National Assembly wants, that's how it can decide. Now there's something about 50% tax on denationalisation bonds. The principle that these revenues are not taxed has not grown or has not arisen with the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia of the current proposal. This principle was incorporated into the Denationalisation Act. Look at this interestingness, I've already mentioned it, but I may have to repeat it, so I'll do it again. Article 151 of the Income Act has written down this principle in the Denationalisation Act. Why? Because he translated it and introduced it into Article 20, paragraph 6, of the current law on income. So the principle that these revenues, not coming from denationalisation, are not taxed has its source, and this is in the law on denationalisation. And this principle was translated into Article 20, paragraph 6, of the National Assembly, now in force. What does it say? It states in Article 6 that income shall not be paid from the return of property and compensation received in accordance with the law governing denationalisation. This is the principle, the legal principle introduced in the law adopted in this National Assembly in May 2004, with a different majority than today. Here comes the legitimate question: What is compensation? And we can have different views about this, but if someone who is an excuse under the denationalisation law does not get back in nature, then the state has decided to give him a bond. This is a paper that states that it has the right to a certain amount of return, which has been set at 6% denationalisation in the Act of Article 45, and that it will have a refund in due course. The question is whether this principle that these revenues are not taxed is applicable to the whole or only the main one. We can have different views. The government's view was that this is not the case. And in the debate, a very long debate, as is now the case with the Monetary Policy Committee, has come up with an agreement that the opposition has actually proposed. The government has agreed to that. I cannot guarantee that we voted unanimously because I did not count myself, but I know that the votes were both from the opposition and from the position. So a compromise solution that we will not open up a debate in our country on the denationalisation law, that we will not insist, either on one or the other, on a certain position of extreme nature, but that we have found ourselves and said that we will tax 50%. And that is now the subject of the decision. I propose, of course, on behalf of the Government, that the National Assembly approve this law for these reasons, which I marked at the beginning of my presentation and also in these explanations now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u65	Thank you, Minister. And a representative of the state council. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u66	Thank you for your word. First of all, I would like to reiterate the already repeatedly expressed dilemma or anomalies that the State Council cannot veto individual articles of the law, but only the law as a whole. If we could also put it on individual articles, today the debate would probably be different and possibly different. There's only three things I'd like to say. I'm a woodsman, and I know the forest, and I know the trees, even in a transferable sense, so I know that if you leave some sick trees in the woods, then the disease goes to health. I would also like to say that veto is a legitimate and constitutional right of the State Council, not a means of performance. I would also like to say that we also have magnetograms available in the state world and that we do not like to detect America and warm water in the state world. As far as college is concerned. Look, you were talking about that height, a million 600. The cost of staying and studying in Ljubljana or Maribor is significantly higher than that of living in Prekmurje or the mothers you mentioned, parents with their salaries cannot pay and finance. That's probably why the part of students who have to work a little bit more, or actually in a small percentage, is 2%, but for them it's a very important income. That is why I have highlighted that the problem of the student work of non-students must be solved in a different way, but not in a single wish to throw students and non-students again. As for interest on deposits. It is a poor comfort that there is a very poor comfort and very poor argument between the transitional period of two years when this will decrease. You're all counting how much money has to be for 300 grand interest. Once this is established, the tax will be paid by each tolar of interest. And there are those people I was talking about, from the lower layers, the less rich. As far as denationalisation is concerned. The determination in the law on denationalisation we understand differently - that no income is paid from what is coming back. The interest we're talking about here is something else. In addition, I must point out that 6% of interest is two to three times higher than elsewhere. Inadmissible are the provisions and amendments that specifically address only a narrow circle of people that clearly points to clientism, which has been mentioned so many times and has been attacked so many times in this Chamber. Regrettably, some of the provisions of this law, despite fairly good solutions, also contain those that on the one hand allow billions of flows and, on the other hand, collect fractions that are socially weak. And since I initially said that we cannot propose amendments only to certain articles, it is said to be unacceptable articles, that is to say unacceptable articles of law, and because in this case the Income Act is a major change for citizens and citizens, and consequently their unequal position, and because of the fact that the laws here in the National Assembly are confirmed in one way or another, we are the saints and saints forced to think seriously about the legislative referendum, to think seriously because then the citizens and citizens should say, who will feel the consequences of this law, whether these provisions are good or bad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u67	Thank you, Mr. Kraut. Since the time for discussion has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss the matter under Rule 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. If you don't mind, I'll read them: Mrs. Squeakl, Rob, Joseph Horvat, Tanko, Jeraj, Kovacic, Kokalj, Capuder. Did I let anyone go? They added: Starman, Juice, Grims, Grill, Pukšič, Versnik. Since there's a break between 1:00 and 2 p.m., I'm adjourning the session, and we'll continue at 2 p.m. The speakers will have one minute.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u68	Well, hello, all of you! I hope you had a good dinner. Proceed with interrupt B1. the agenda item, this is the re-decision on the law amending and supplementing the law on income. President Tsukati has already allocated the remaining time available for discussion. Each Member or Member shall have one minute. And because of the ease of organization and leadership, I would read everything again: mag. Squeak, mag. Rob, Jožef Horvat, Mr Tanko, Mrs Jeraj, Mr Kovacic, Mr Kokalj, Mr Capuder, Mr Starman, Mr Sok, Mag. Grims, Mr. Grill, Mr. Pukšič and Mr. Veršnik. Please, mag. Squeakle, it's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u69	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. True, any debate on taxes is, in fact, a debate that is political. Therefore, it would be good for the Minister of Finance to know that in proposing the Income Act, by supplementing the tax threshold, he acted against the principle of fairness and the principle of equality, as two important tax principles. The principle of equivalency states that each person should pay a tax according to his or her economic capacity and appropriate to his or her economic ability. So it is only right that those who have a lot pay a tax on interest and those who have less pay a tax only after a certain threshold. With the Income Act, you broke that threshold. I suggest you do not support the law and allow the government to amend the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u70	Thank you very much. My word, Mag. Robbery.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u71	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'd like to talk to you myself about what the Minister of Finance said. I also agree that today we are talking about what kind of society, what kind of country we want to have. And with these changes, we turn it into a different society and a different country. I would like to stress in particular that, following the regulation so far, what the Minister of Finance here said was that all the revenues from the interest were taxed - they were not below 300,000 tolars. And also a key principle he spoke of that there should be no special conditions. Today we set them up, special conditions for those who are the richest and those who have denationalisation bonds. And in relation to denationalisation. According to the law on denationalisation, there is no tax on bonds when you receive them. This is certainly not the case with interest.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u73	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Good-bye to all of you again! I will renew the new law on income, including by correcting the previous, still valid law, which also taxes a large family allowance, among other things. In a way, it was also mockery from large families when we gave the big family 80 thousand and 25% immediately picked up. With regard to the principles of fairness, I think that this solution to the taxation of interest on denationalisation bonds is good, as some kind of patch is for the wounds of those who have suffered great damage, great trauma, tragedy in the process of nationalisation of property. Some were taken away from homes, homes, some factories, and thus life changed for them and their families in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Mr. Tanko has the floor. Mr. Tanko, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u75	Thank you very much. By means of the law that we are now making again, we are also deciding on a number of things that have been made worse in the previous or present law. This introduces additional reliefs, allowances for large families, disabled persons, for natural persons who provide assistance to persons with disabilities, then exempts or introduces reliefs for veteran supplements and so on, even for the paper collected by students in schools. As regards interest, in the event of difficulties in implementation, the law in the part which regulates the threshold for 2006 and 2007 may only be rectified in this part and does not therefore need to be rejected. As far as the economy is concerned, the fact is that companies, small craftsmen will have maximum good conditions, an increased base and also significantly higher standardised costs.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u76	Thank you very much. I understand that we are still under the impression of a delicious lunch, but I would still ask for a little listen, because it is difficult for Members and Members to concentrate and in one minute say what they want to say, especially if it is such a noise as it is. Please. Thank you for your insight. It's Mrs. Jeraj's turn. He's quitting. Mr. Kovacich.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u77	Thank you very much. In view of the fact that the parties to the opposition are constantly concerned with the exemption of income on interest from the Slovenian compensation company's bonds, I would like to say that, for the first time, it is not a full exemption, but 50 % of the exemption from this duty; for the second time, the interest paid by the Slovenian compensation company on behalf of the beneficiary does not constitute income from capital, but part of the compensation for what is already due to the beneficiary has been deducted from it without its consent and will only be repaid after a long period of time since the adoption of the law, so it is a substitute for guilt, it is a substitute for the cause of the injustice and nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u78	Thank you. It's Mr. Kokalj's turn.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u79	Thank you very much. I will renew my support for the law, given that it gradually corrects some of the shortcomings adopted by the previous ruling coalition. The indications that are in line are often trivial or unilaterally reasoned matters, and I therefore believe that, as has already been explained many times today, this law must be urgently adopted if we also want to address the budget in a consistent manner. The issue needs to be looked at politically and professionally in the package, so I think there is no dilemma here and, as I said before, the law needs to be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u80	Thank you very much. I'd like to take the floor with you, Mr. Capudr.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u81	Thank you very much. In one year we have been reforming the law for the second time, and I think there are so many mistakes in the past that it is imperative to correct them, to draw attention to the student problem, to the problems of large families. This is not the coalition's fault, this is the thing that happened last year, and I think it's time to re-support the marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Mr. Starman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u83	Thank you very much, Mr. President. 2412 billion tolars were all savings on our banks 30.10.2005, of which 1461 were tolaric, 945 foreign exchange. Of these, 1300, we're talking about a base of 1,100 billion for taxation. At 3% of the average taxes we have a base of 33 billion. At the maximum tax rate in 2008, this would take the state to collect 6.6 billion tolars. Thus, this proposal gives at least 5 to 10 times more reliefs than we give what I may suggest or have enough time to change what will happen in 2008 and 2009, so I really don't understand someone who would be willing to vote against the law and deprive our taxpayers of the scale that the state is now making available. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u84	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Sok's turn.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u85	Thank you so much for saying that. When a really bad income law was passed in May 2004, which, as it was said, was now necessary to repair there was no veto, there was no veto on the part of the State Council, but now that we are adopting a much better income law, you are now suddenly asking the question of veto in the state world. I think you listened very well to the Minister of Finance when he was answering what the government was imagining about taxation of interest. There's something else I'd like to tell you as a proposalant. So tax laws, as far as I know, can't be a referendum, because if you put tax law on the referendum issue, of course, it can happen that citizens will adopt it and they will say, we accept it and we won't pay taxes. I don't know what country we'll have if something like this happens. So, please don't forbid it, but look what the rules of procedure say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u86	Thank you. The word has magic. Grimes. He's quitting. Mr. Grill. He's quitting. Mr. Puksich.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u87	If not now, I will only say in three points why I will back this law. That is, the fact is that this law further exempts the payment of income, for those who provide care or assistance to persons with disabilities, and this is already one of the important reasons why the law is, of course, worth supporting. Then, this law offers additional exemptions for large families, and that is another reason. And third, exemptions for athletes for prizes won when they promote the whole country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u88	The hall is beautiful. And the last one, Mr. Veršnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u89	Thank you very much. I will re-support the marriage as I did for the first time. However, I would like to say something about the Slovenian Compensation Society's bonds. The position of the denationalisation beneficiaries who have received the Slovenian Compensation Company bonds is not the same as that of the savers and other investors who voluntarily collect where and how they will invest their money. Believe me, the denationalisation beneficiaries would be more pleased if the theft of their assets did not occur at all. We are always talking only about material dimensions, and we never or never ask ourselves about the psychological consequences caused by nationalisation. I also hope responsiblely to state that compensation is not the real value of the compensation for the seized property, but represents only the value achieved in the negotiations in the administrative unit and in the Slovenian Compensation Company, and probably the shortest end was drawn by the denationalising justifyer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u90	Thank you very much. This concludes the debate and also the time spent. We are moving on to a decision on that law. I would like to point out that, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 91 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, a majority of the members of the assembly should vote in order to adopt that law, 46 or more. Of course, we still have an opportunity to explain our vote on behalf of both the Group of Members and on behalf of ourselves. I ask if anyone would like to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? For once, I have two on my list, Mr. Starman, Mr. Znidarsic. I don't know, I'm sorry, and mag. Squeezing. [[...]] So I'll read it again. This does not mean, of course, that no one else should come forward later. I have the following panellists or explanations: Mr Starman, Mr Žnidaršič, mag. Squeak, Mr Ptrč and Mr Jerovšek as well as Mr Jerovšek, you are now answering those who want to explain in your own name, but it is good. Let's get started, then we'll see if there's any more demand. Mr. Starman, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u91	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party will all be happy to support this law once again. I'd say the dilemma we've been listening to about taxation of the poor isn't. All I'd say is that those who have deposits and have high tax opportunities are not poor people. I don't think I deserve a little, but I've never actually had any income from any interest. I don't see any problem here. Nevertheless, I have already said that we ourselves think that there must be a threshold to taxation, which we will propose or have enough time to change the law. Once again, I would like to point out that what our taxpayers expect from us is so much that I would hardly dare to think that I would not support this law and so do my colleagues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u92	Thank you very much. I'd like to invite Mr. Žnidarsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u93	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! This law will be supported, no matter how the DeSUS Group decided, in which we could not unite, whether we would support this law unitedly or not, because it has quite a few such solutions that we disagreed with and we do not intend to agree. I think that the law, however, needs to be supported, I will support it, as I say, but it would be accepted without my voice, because there is some solution in it for those who are good and for those who should go on. However, I am sure that what we do not agree with at a time when the law is to be implemented gradually, with certain solutions, is yet to be rectified, and we will certainly, if there is no coalition, as a parliamentary group, make a correction of the law in two, three points and with all the expectation that we may be successful then, will be supporting this law. The other Members will vote as they decide. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u94	Thank you very much. It's mag. Squeakle, on behalf of the Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u95	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Members, we report that we will not support the law. We are pleased to see that both Mr Starman and Mr Žnidaršič, representatives of the coalition Members, have found that there has been a mistake in this law. It was a mistake that you did not wish to adopt an amendment on the Committee on Finance to introduce and retain the threshold of taxation. Obviously, we're in a situation where the coalition will repair itself again, at least you say, a law that is bad. The law, to the extent that it is enforced, will make an important difference between those who pay the capital tax and those who are not skilled in the capital market and mostly operate with domestic financial institutions, banks. It is not true that this money is just $1,100 billion; the money is 2,700 billion according to the October 2005 Bank of Slovenia newsletter. You need to look at all the columns, not just one of the columns. It's not true it's a small problem. It's a problem that will touch each and every one of us. Each, including the one for which we wanted to introduce an exception in May 2004 with the imposition of the tax threshold. That's not what you wanted to hear. We discussed this for a few hours on the Finance Committee, a few hours in this National Assembly, which we have warned you about. Today we've been losing four, five hours, and this time we'd have written down the amendment of the marriage. But no, this is about whether the ruling coalition wants to follow in particular what it didn't even know exactly what it had accepted. It has, of course, adopted a law on income which, in its original proposal, fully burdened denationalising beneficiaries. And we know that among them is the Roman Catholic Church, and that simply means that at least a few of these finances should be formally arranged to pay the tax - that it has burdened the richest among us, that it has burdened everyone else. And when we explained it to you for a few hours, he took off and played his voting machine or, if you want, your bulldozer. I regret that today you will clearly confirm the law, and then in a few months, either on a proposal from a coalition or from individual coalition parties, we will discuss the obvious error again. Reject the law; the government could have fixed the law by now and it could undoubtedly be adopted this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Mr. Potts.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u97	Thank you very much. We have led the entire debate on the law at the home labour body and also at the second and third reading meetings from the same starting points - that it is right to support certain solutions and that it would be right for the government to listen to the proposals of the amendments that we have made. I said that these amendments went to a certain extent to ease the tax burden on those who are socially threatened, that these proposals went to a certain extent to alleviate tax burdens mainly for young families and for housing. And we considered that there was no reason to change the principle of taxation of interest in the way that was established in the last year's adopted law and proposed that this amendment, which changed these solutions, should be deleted and the current situation preserved, that is to say, taxation, but above a certain threshold, which you are all now interpreting, no one was willing to accept in the course of the debate. In particular, we have proposed the deletion of the exemption or the partial charge on interest on denationalisation bonds, because it seems to us that such a solution is unilateral, criminal and, in particular, extend only to a group of beneficiaries, regardless of what and how the denationalisation law has regulated these issues. That is why we will vote against Members and Members of Parliament for the law to be confirmed. We are convinced that, at the slightest good will of the government, we could be in a different position. As tax burdens, or the fact that changes to the law cannot provide for too much relief, it is clear to us that the State must receive adequate resources to carry out its functions. However, if we went only to remove the special benefit you give to the denationalisation interest, we would cover many other rights, which are significantly smaller, but which would have a different social orientation. You didn't want to. This points to the logic of this government's thinking, to the policy that the government is leading, and it is already in line with the single tax rate policy, which means significantly greater social differences, the burden of the lowest and the relief of the highest, and so we will not vote again for this law, but against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u98	Thank you. And also Mr. Joseph Horvat on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u99	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I am pleased to announce that the New Slovenia-Christian People's Party Group will once again support the amendment of the Income Law. We have been assessing all this time, a lot of it, we have spent a lot of it here in this Chamber, that this amendment of the law is the optimal adaptation of the existing law. As the debates and amendments on the committee as the working body were discussed, let me just remind you that the government initially did not propose a relief in calculating the interest on denationalisation bonds. The opposition proposed a 50% relief, and we supported it. The opposition is now pushing the matter forward. I cannot say that, I cannot say that this is a serious parliamentary debate. The fact that we got out of the field, from taxpayers, gives us a lot of encouragement and we want to listen to it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u100	Thank you very much. I'm asking if anyone else would like to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? We stick to the rules of procedure and order. So I see you don't. Now we have a chance in our own name, and I'll read it, so you can get ready, and then I'll write the others. For the moment, I have on my list the following Members and Members: Mr Jerovšek, Mr Moge, Mr Germič, Dr Slavinec and Mrs Lovtizar Bebler. Yeah, don't worry, we've got assistants looking out for all hands up. I will read again: Jerovšek, Moge, Germič, Dr. Slavinec, Lavtišar Bebler, Rezman, Pecan, Starman, Pece, Zagorac, Mag. Saivitz. Well, if anyone else decides in the meantime, they can. Let us go straight, Mr Jerovšek, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u101	Thank you very much. I will also reiterate my support for the Income Act, because in all these references, you did not give him one good argument to bring it down. And second of all, I'll explain it this way. I have just returned from the exhibition on Slovenian exiles, where Prof. Ivica Žnidaršič stressed that the former authorities did not recognize the status of war victims. And by objecting and shouting that the partial relief of the bond for denationalized property is unjust, you reiterate your defense of communist divination and the horror that has taken place and you do not recognize the status of victims to those who were victims of that savagery.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u102	Voice explanation, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u103	That's what I'm talking about. I'm glad of your attitude when your masks fall, but you're only in charge of defending these injustices that happened once until the last drop of blood. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Let us really use this institution in terms of rules of procedure, not in terms of discussion. Lord My word is yours.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u105	Thank you so much for saying that. I'm not going to support this marriage myself. In my opinion, some amendments to the law in question do not constitute improvements, but the bill's proposal for finding new tax resources should more fairly divide the tax burdens, in particular, a certain established policy should be maintained in taxing those social groups that are most vulnerable, as it is estimated that the social situation will deteriorate. We're in front of Christmas, New Year's Eve. Dear colleagues and colleagues, has anyone given any thought to why the poor were carrying that last savings into the bank? I lived in such a family myself, and I am grateful to remember my mother, who was a cleaning lady at the National Bank of Slovenia, that the last couple she saved brought her to the bank so that we could survive, that we could buy a winter break, that we could buy textbooks, that she had schooled us, and that we could buy chicken that we were warm. We all forget about these poor people today when we squeeze, and it seems completely unethical to me that when the country is as rich as it is, look at the social product per capita, forgets about these people, and even with minimal tax reliefs, and we take 300,000 too much of the interest, but we do not show that they live in distress, that we know that they are in need of more social assistance, and that we can also help them with this, as far as legislation is concerned, slightly, while denationalisation is concerned, when some are also digging for the wrongs that have been done to them, in money, respected colleagues and colleagues, as far as it is concerned, it is not exactly Christian morality, it seems fair to me, and that is why I will reject this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u106	Thank you. Mr. Germich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u107	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. When we were able to listen to today's Minister, Dr. Bayuk, at the time when he was a Member himself, voiced many criticisms at the expense of the then government that he could not tax those who had the most. Of course, when he became a finance minister, it was certainly my expectation that he would back up what he had here many times, including with fist punches on this table, in his actions. Of course, today, when we have his document on the table, which we accept as a matter of urgency, given that most of the public or public debate was not possible, today we can assess and also assess those who will vote today in favour of this law, so that instead of the Christmas tree, which is somehow shared for a successful job in December, the rotten egg will be planted in this law. And in order to actually eliminate the reliefs for those who save their savings in order to try to maintain their real value as much as their modest savings by savings in banks, of course, today by adopting this law we are giving a message to them that no one is thinking of them. And, of course, by removing this relief, we are now receiving a proposal from your mouth to reconsider, but of course I think it would be good not to confirm it and to remove this "dead egg" which has been planted in this content, despite the predictions some have mentioned today, that they will be here tomorrow to change this. Given the functioning of the ruling coalition, of course I will not fall for such statements myself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u108	Thank you. Once again, I ask for a little more peace and insight in the hall, it is difficult to work under such conditions. Dr. Slavinec has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u109	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word. So that the marriage has been vetoed, we certainly have to think and reconsider it, we have done so many times so far, but despite everything, the debate has not convinced me that it is as good as bad, so I will not support it. Let me just mention a few of the most important points why I don't think it's worth the support. The taxation of interest and the claim that these are not poor people who have more than 300,000 interest, because they are not small people, because they too will fall in, and they are certainly more dependent on these interest rates and are significantly more poor than those who are excused to denationalisation certificates that will not be justified or will not pay these taxes. Even if we now look at the larger or smaller poor, the result is global, as it will significantly change the financial market itself in our market and, as a result, weaken the provision of finance for general things, not least for dwellings, just for those that were discussed at the beginning. For this reason, of course, I propose that God should not take what is Caesar's and, of course, I do not support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Mrs. Lovtišar Bebler has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u111	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Respectable. I cannot support this law because it is not reasonable because it is not just, despite different assurances and because it does not respect the principle of equality before the law. It is a major shift and push of this country there, when it is not equally friendly to all social categories of the population, even more, to some it will be extremely unlovable and criminal. In short, this is a law that, in my opinion, creates new injustices, so I cannot support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u112	Thank you very much. My word to Mr. Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u113	Thank you. Well, although this law has quite a few good things that correct some of the earlier bad solutions, it would be difficult to afford this luxury to actively support it. Because I have some concerns, not I alone, we've had a lot of them, and because we all know that some things need to be fixed. At the same time, I would also like to say that they are not the real eyewitnesses who talk about it as if we are now advocating for those who have large savings and are paying 300 thousand dollars in interest. No, we stand for something else, or I stand for something else. Even those who have 300,000 tolar interest may be saving to buy their first apartment, or to go to college, or to buy their first car, and so on, for what is no longer a sin today. And that's not essential either. The important thing is not just to stop at the number 300,000, but to stop any relief. That's the problem. Whether the right amount is 300,000 or 250 or the right one, it would probably be possible to think about that. That it was undisputed among all of us, even in the coalition, that knowledge was united, but that the amendment was later withdrawn, but it was withdrawn not for substantive reasons, but because we could not properly carry out the procedure. But they're not the only interest or interest tax problem - that's what I'm saying. There's another problem. And because we have some of these problems here, we also announce that we are actually going to propose a proposal for a change immediately after the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u114	Thank you. Mrs. Pecanova has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u115	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Good day to your colleagues. Of course, I will actively vote against this law. I will mention only two reasons: one is that, although an amendment has been tabled to increase the tax relief when purchasing the first apartment, to solve the housing problem, it is said that it was primarily intended to promote the resolution of the housing problems of young families, and that, on the question of whether the Ministry of Finance can calculate how much damage the state will have because the income will be less from this title, of course, there was no answer. Later on, I calculated - with excessively high numbers of purchases of such first apartment, a thousand apartments per year, and an excessively high tax base of 300,000 per member of the legal community, it is said that 600,000 gross tax bases would have incurred only 12 million tolls in the national budget in the first year. For a thousand apartments! That is why I do not think it is appropriate to vote for such a law. The other thing that bothers me is that for older people who are in the highest number of savers in small amounts, this coalition did not feel the need for tax relief, or for the amount for which interest is paid, to raise at least some normal amount to at least 50 to 100,000 dollars, a small amount, but you do not feel the need for older people to save when they save to ensure some security at their age.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u116	Thank you very much. My word to Mr. Starman.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u117	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I just want to make it clear because my friend Squeakle didn't listen to me before. I said that 2004 161 billion deposits and deposits, of which 1,300 billion were visible, of which no interest was imposed either after the present or after the previous law. This was previously eliminated and this case is also now eliminated. By saying that half of these prominent deposits, of which no tax is paid on this interest, are obtained here due to clearance. Second thing, people have, like I said, those who are really, these demagogies really have a full head, those who really don't have money have a minus on accounts. And with the reliefs they're offering them, these minuses are going to go down, and they're going to save a lot of money on huge interest, 13% are now about negative on current accounts. So once again, I say that I will also, on my behalf, appeal to everything to support this marriage, because otherwise we will do great stupidity and harm to our taxpayers.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u118	Thank you very much. It's Vice President Peca's turn.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u119	Thank you for your word. The new government approach embodied in this law, according to my assessment, introduces a new dimension of tax relief. I must also point out that, according to my assessment, this new government approach is harmful, and above all, contrary to the opening part of the Constitution of Slovenia when it comes to equality. According to my assessment of tax relief should not be subject to the social status of an individual citizen or citizen, but unfortunately the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has decided differently. It has decided that tax reliefs will be given to richer, wealthier, and, above all, to all those who have denationalising beneficiaries under the common denominator. Regrettably, this tax relief will not be justified by those who care about the basic provision of housing needs that care or save in banks for better tomorrow. According to my assessment, the accession of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is dangerous, and even more dangerous is the conduct of the National Assembly, which adopted this selective fiscal policy. And if this is the beginning of the tax or reform of the new government, the Yangtze government, then we must sincerely fear the continuation or implementation of the other steps. I am pleased that the Council of State voted veto, but I sincerely hoped that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or the Ministry would announce today's debate, and the Minister would have this opportunity, the correction of the existing income law or their income law. I myself will do the same as at the first reading or previous consideration and oppose the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u120	Thank you. Mr. Zagorac has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u121	Thank you for your word, chairman. I cannot support this law alone for two reasons. The first reason is, I have a daughter who goes to the first grade of elementary school and since the first day she started attending school they started to use her very nicely to save money, it is said to save money that when she is 18, 19 years old and would start attending college, she will have a certain amount of money saved. For five visits to the savings office, she was promised a keychain. The only bank in the state has promised a keychain, they're marrying to get it. For ten visits she was promised a T-shirt with the logo of the only Slovenian bank, for 100 visits today the government promises to pay interest, says the only interest she will have when she is 19 years old will be a T-shirt and a key tag. And another reason why I cannot support this law is certainly non-taxation or lower taxation of denationalising beneficiaries. Let me answer one basic question. What are they more than I am, not a denationalising beneficiary or so many Slovenians who are also not denationalising beneficiaries? Today I heard for the first time about the term nationalization syndrome as a psychological consequence of what happened in 1946, which is why these people are more than I am, then I ask you nicely. I just can't support this marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u122	Thank you. The word has magic. Saivitz.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u123	Thank you very much, Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues. As in the first vote, I will not support the law, because it breaks that myth that saving in this country is of some value. On the other hand, many, say, Pek's workers, are taking credit for chicken, school supplies and winter breakers, and these are the people we are now taking when they're saving. He's known to say that if he doesn't, he won't take the army. Today, however, it is obvious that where there is little or little [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u124	Please listen, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u125	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Let me repeat that thought again. We said if it wasn't, the army wouldn't take it. Today, however, it is obvious that where there is little or little, the state takes it to the other side, where there is obviously enough. Tax burdens must be distributed fairly, and whoever has more will also pay more, and that is it. That is why, of course, I will oppose this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u126	Thank you. It's Mr. Gulic's turn.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u127	Respected and respected! I will also oppose this law, not just because the state council vetoed it - it already knew why, because they probably studied it - but for purely ethical reasons. I'm going to count some of them, because we go past the Constitution again and we're legislating inequality among citizens, then we're legislating the state's a socialism, we're legislating unethicalism, we're giving more glimmer to the rich and more misery to the poor. We are setting the right of lobbying against the right to gather and protest, as has been demonstrated by the debate. So again, maybe some kind of law is being drawn up that will prohibit it, too, not to talk about what the unions and people have the right to do at all. All this distinction leads to the abolition of freedom. And if someone fantasizes about saving the rich for putting them into development and returning over some schemes to the poor, he's very wrong. With the Slovenians, it's all about luxury and baroque.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u128	Thank you. It's Mr. Grill's turn.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u129	Thank you for your word. I will be happy to support this law again because it certainly eliminates many injustices and brings new advantages. But I am truly surprised by the demagogic statements made by my opposition colleagues, and let me now mention only two. The first is that, in their explanations, they declare things that are not clear to me at all.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u130	Mr. Grill, that's not a controversy. Explain your voice, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u131	That's it. I want to know how someone can take credit and save at the same time. Above all, I was surprised by the statement made by one of the predecessors that our parents were saving on our education. Let me remind you that with the inflation we had, all of our inflation savings were eaten, and whoever was saving had nothing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u132	Thank you very much. So far, the last one on the list of mags. Squeak, on my own. I ask you kindly to listen, in particular Mr President, please calm your Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u133	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. The fact is, this first Janša marriage has experienced veto and congratulations to the state veto. They did so despite the perceptions of a coalition that does not recognize their autonomy. And I want her to go if you vote against it today. You got your first reprimand. Today you have the opportunity to make the first correction of the assessment so that you don't get the grub. However, gentlemen, all of this would not have happened if we had dealt with this law on a regular basis. If at first reading we found that some of the legal provisions were stupid but [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u134	Mag. Squeakle, an explanation of vote, is also valid for you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u135	Mr President and the College have decided that we will adopt such an important law on an urgent basis. [[...]] Four times considered this law, at two suspended sessions, at the assembly and again today. You rushed by emergency, and we got a bad marriage. On the committee we drew attention to the problems of this law, to the problems of old mothers, pensioners, who in the summer gave them some more money, and now you take it away from them, to young families, but the coalition acted as a coalition, without thinking you raised your hand, without knowing why, even though some of you now realize that this law will have to be corrected. And lastly, it's not 1,100 billion mandatory deposits, that's 881 billion, that's another 2,700 billion, and then I wonder why this ruling coalition works. Because you are subject to the true ruler. And the real rulers of this coalition are the ones who are the richest in Slovenia and are doing it for them.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Anyone else? Mr. Sok, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u137	Thank you so much for saying that. Just for a little while. All day long, I have listened to all these comments, and I will vote in favour of the law, and I will be happy to do so, because this law is basically correcting what the previous government has adopted. We are aware, and we have also said that everything is not ideal. Above all, it is necessary to say, because this is what the opposition colleagues say, all that is meant for the media is that it is spinning in such a way that nothing will happen for two years in the field of interest taxation. For all those old mothers and all that you're making up and all that you're listing, it would be surprising if the opposition acted here to praise the government proposal. It's just a legitimate right, but what we're saying at home is that it's a lie and all we have to say is that it's a lie. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u138	Thank you very much. I think it's time we voted on the law. Check again if they work in the best technical order. We're voting. Thank you very much. [[The applause in the hall.]] Please, if I'm allowed to announce the result. There are 80 Members and Members present, 50 votes in favour, 29 votes in favour. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 29.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I thank the representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Council of State. We're moving to C1. PERIOD OF THE DAY - TO RECOMMEND THE AMENDMENT OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT LAW. The total time of the debate is 2 hours and 25 minutes. As you know, at its 9th extraordinary meeting on 30 November this year, the Council of State of the Republic of Slovenia decided that, pursuant to the third indent of Article 97(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, it would require the National Assembly to decide again before declaring the law amending the law on research and development activities. I give the floor to the representative of the Council of State to explain the Council's request to Mr Doro Hvalica.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Good afternoon, Members and Members of Parliament, Mr. Minister, Vice-President! First, an apology from Dr. Mencinger, who had to give priority to his professional work. The proposal for veto is able to be added, in addition to the justification you received and, hopefully, also studied, only this. In the State Council, for sure, the view prevailed that the law meant the loss of that level of autonomy in research institutions, which means the distinction between public and state institutions. Infinite, rich, until euphoria, there have also been discussions in this national assembly on this subject, and in fact I am only sorry that they will probably happen again. Another time. The 2002 Act, according to the Council of State, is quite sufficient. Not only is it more appropriate, as you know, it justifies the tripartite management of the boards of directors, which, given the nature of this activity, is certainly the most appropriate way and form of management of the public institution in the field of research. The third point, which is particularly noteworthy, is that, in the opinion of the Council of State, the concern or fear of the proposer of this law is greater in order, in 2002, to put at risk the fundamental interests of the government or the priorities of the government in this area, because this is simply impossible, as we know that these tasks are linked to the state budget, that they are linked to public funds and that it always gives these or those tolls for all the consent of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. What is possible to add to an official explanation or an official explanation or, if you want an official initiative of the Council of State, what has occurred or has been very intensely re-emerging in this law in the State Council, is that we do not understand the need of the government or the founders to decide everything and everyone in this most direct and direct sense of the word. In short, we don't understand the need to continue intrusion of politics into every marriage of social activity, if you want, in every marriage, where what we call, of course, is most noble, in short, where there is pasture, like this, I apologize for this literary walk, on the pasture of the human spirit. Restricting him in any way and taking his autonomy is simple, I won't say sin, it's simply a shame because he's certainly getting revenge in the long run. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u140	Thank you very much. The matter has also been addressed by the Committee on Higher Education, Science and Technology Development as a parent working body and I give the floor to Mr Rudolph Mohet, Chairman of the Committee, to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u141	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Members and Members. The Committee was informed of the request of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia to veto the law amending the law in research and development activities. The reasons for adopting the request of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia stated that the proposed change in the composition of the administrative boards would result in the loss of that level of autonomy which distinguishes between the public and public authorities, which is why the State Council supports the maintenance of their status under the 2002 law in force, as it notes that the new structure of the administrative boards of public institutions in this area is established by amending Article 33 of the current law of 2002 with the majority of representatives of the founder. The National Council of the Republic of Slovenia disagrees with the proposed amendment and believes that the three-partite structure of the 2002 boards of administration should be implemented. The proposaler’s concern is that the three-partite boards in public research institutions would not adopt the programme in accordance with the government’s guidelines and priorities, as founders and majority financiers alone, as they cannot be adopted and financed without the government’s consent under the current regulation. In explanation of the request, the representative of the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr Jože Mencinger, said that the Council of State did not see the need to amend Article 33 of the Law on Research and Development in such a way that representatives of the founder would have a majority in the boards of public research institutions, although these institutions were to be financed by the State in the opinion of the proposed law. In doing so, he also drew attention to the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service on this law, which, like the Council of State, notes that, already after the current regulation of the work programme of the individual public research institution, it is not possible to adopt and thus not finance from the State budget without the consent of the Government, which exercises the constitutional rights and obligations of the Republic of Slovenia. In addition, Dr Mencinger felt that the Government's opinion on the request of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia was inadequately justifying the need to amend the composition of the boards of public research institutions. The representative of the Education, Education, Science and Culture Union, SWIZ, considered that the proposal for the composition of administrative committees, public research institutions, was inadequate and therefore supported by the veto of the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia. In the short debate, it was longer alone, when we adopted the law, that the representatives of opposition parties said that the proposed solution on the composition of the boards of public research institutions disagreed and that they supported the provisions of the 2000 applicable law on the basis of which the boards were constituted in a tripartite manner and in which the government does not have a majority. The representative of the opposition party, however, felt that the government should have a majority on the boards of directors, as it alone financed most of the programmes in public research institutions. Thus, following this debate, the committee slowly proceeded to the vote. As in the adoption of the law, the opposition voted against the adoption of this law, and the position unanimously supported the adoption of this law, so that the Higher Education, Science and Technology Development Committee proposes two decisions to the National Assembly. One is that the National Assembly adopts this law, and another is that it proposes to the National Assembly that this veto be dealt with at today's meeting, which has already been carried out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u142	Thank you very much. I now give the floor to Dr. Juret Zupan, Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology, to explain the opinion or report as a representative of the law. I ask you to take the floor, too, because this is a presentation of your position.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u143	Mr President, honourable members and honourable members of the National Assembly! This law has already been debated at this point. There was also a discussion on the committee, twice. The arguments that we said went somehow past each other. We have repeatedly pointed out that the substance of the replacement of Article 33(2) of the Law on the financing of research and development activities in operationalisation and the taking on of government responsibility for the implementation of the national research and development programme. In fact, it is operational work, and here I am particularly stressing the following things. The first observation to be taken away from research autonomy is completely out of line because we are talking about the management of institutes and not research work. So, the researcher is completely autonomous in his work, and in fact we allow him to make it significantly easier for him to do so than he does, because the management will be taken care of by the administrative board's institution, which will make sure that the conditions - because this is the core of the problem - for research, we are not talking about what he is exploring, how he is exploring, what the researcher's decisions in his research work are, this is autonomy. The conditions of the researcher in which he is researching, this is the task of the State to arrange that these conditions are the same throughout the Slovenian research area. Moreover, these conditions must bring the European level closer because we want to have a common European research space. And in spite of everything, however we talk about how most appropriate it is - here we have heard that the composition, as they now have, is the most appropriate. If it were the most appropriate, according to the law now in force, researchers as extremely smart would probably have done so by now and have not done so since 2002. This means that this legislation, which is now, is not the most appropriate or we can think of something else about these research institutes or their boards of directors. In any event, it is important that the State introduces this instrument in this respect, with which it can launch a single European research space. As an example, when we introduce this, we do not think in any way that we would be members of the administrative boards of the ministry or members of the government or any other kind. It's perfectly clear that if we just look at numbers, we have 17 public research institutions. If we put four members on each board on average, that means 85 - if there were five, it's 85, if there were four and 68. It is therefore quite clear that this will not be the people of the Ministry, but people from industry, from institutions such as universities, which are important for the operation of a particular segment of the research space and are willing to prepare this single research space in terms of what was planned through the national research programme. And here's the core of it all. In the national research programme, we have been listening to the economy all the time - and we have been listening to this for 15 years - that public research institutions are under-involved in the economy. And, as I just said, there is, of course, room for these people in the board of directors. On the other hand, it is clear that we have so far received them from the Chamber of Commerce and have had no impact. And here's the problematic part that we get at a specific research institute. Because it is perfectly clear that we want to push the direction of development and working methods in research institutes - that is, the conditions - towards the completion of the national research programme. And by doing so, we believe that they will be able to achieve this. One more thing when we talk about responsibility for the work done. This is not just acceptance, as it has been said here, that we can determine things through the government. We need to monitor things at operational level, and this needs to be monitored by the boards of directors, which will implement the government's policy, and thus we will be able to achieve certain advantages. I could give you a whole bunch of examples of what can or can't be done, but I think that's enough. I call and ask you to accept this law again [[....]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u144	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I now give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. The word has magic. Franc Capuder on behalf of New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u145	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Mr Minister, Members and Members of Parliament. Slovenia's goal is to become a modern and competitive society in all its segments. This will be achieved through greater investment in the development of own knowledge and the implementation of available foreign knowledge. For this reason, it is necessary to create such conditions in the research sphere in Slovenia in order to approach the European Research Area, which in our view is the main condition for the creation of a mobile, flexible and market-friendly research workforce. Research should not be the purpose of itself, as has been the case all too often in the past, but should serve the full and even development of our society. This is especially true now that our country has committed itself to following the objectives of the Lisbon Strategy and will devote even more resources to this end than it has so far. It is the government that must strive for these goals to be met. The amendment of the law on development and research activities is therefore going in this direction. The Public Research Institute and the Public Infrastructure Institute are managed by the Management Board. However, the task of the Management Boards is to adopt work programmes, financial plans, work programme reports and other activities defined in the statutes of individual public research institutions. To achieve the objectives of the Lisbon Strategy, the government is trying to achieve even better governance of public research institutions than has been the case in recent years. I don't think it was bad, but it can certainly be improved and directed towards the common good. One of the instruments for the implementation of government policy in the field of research and development is the majority of the members of the boards of public research institutions by the owner or founder of research institutions. The solutions in the existing law did not allow this to happen, and it would not be possible to ensure that the public administration adopts programme guidance in line with the government's guidelines and priorities, which also, in the largest part, finances all these institutions and is responsible for the implementation of the programme leading to the implementation of the Lisbon Strategy. From this point of view, I must say that the proposed amendments to the law in this area constitute the right approach for which the government is responsible and does not defend this responsibility according to the Minister's statements. Such an approach is the only logical step taken by the responsible government. Amendments to the law on research and development activities define the ratio of the number of members on the Management Board of the Public Research and Public Infrastructure Institute by making it the majority of all members of the founder's representatives, and of the remaining members the same number of representatives of employees and users of public service. The Council of State considers that this proposal is an attempt to interfere with the autonomy of the public research institution. In the debate at the time of the adoption of the law, however, it was often heard that it interfered even with the autonomy of researchers. In Novi Slovenije - The Christian People's Party we are convinced that the majority of the representatives of the founders in the board of directors have absolutely no influence and should not affect the autonomy of the work of researchers and not the research policy in this way that the expertise and quality of research would be reduced. Of course, it is not acceptable for experts, researchers, to do only what they want to do. For this reason, each public institution has a scientific or professional council dealing with issues relating to the scientific and professional work of the public institution, decides on professional issues within its powers, prepares professional bases for the work programmes and the development of the public institution, and gives the Management Committee and the Director in particular opinions and suggestions on the organisation of work and conditions for the development of activities, and, of course, performs other tasks which are prescribed by the relevant acts. In Novi Slovenije - The Christian People's Party we are convinced that the change of law does not affect the autonomy of researchers and institutions, but I stress this again, but the desire is to ensure that public resources, which are measured in development and research, are truly transparent and, above all, efficient. Therefore, in our party, we will re-support the Development and Research Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u146	Thank you. The word has magic. Janez Kramberger on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u147	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will re-vote the amendment of the law on research and development activities. Indeed, it is about the introduction of a single European research area, which is designed in the objectives of the National Research and Development Programme. We are convinced that the government must play an important role in ensuring these objectives under the national programme. We are also convinced that this is not an intervention in the autonomy of researchers and research activities. For these reasons, we will therefore re-vote for this amendment to the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u148	Thank you. Ms Barbara Žgajner Tavš has the floor to present the position of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u149	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I will mainly repeat, more or less, at least the objection from the previous sitting or the meeting at which the said law was addressed. The focus of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is certainly to create a knowledge-based society. There is no doubt that in this respect education, research plays an important role, so much more in the practical context of the economy. But allow me again. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, when presenting the amendment to the Law on Research and Development, stressed the current practice in the field of research activities, which is supposed to be ineffective and inadequate. For the same reason or in a desire to increase the link between the economy and research activity, the Ministry has drawn up the present law, which we are considering again today. But at first glance, it really says that with just two substantive articles, which the government has not prepared in this law concrete programmes or solutions that would actually follow, I will say not only the government's desire, but in fact the desire and necessity of the Republic of Slovenia after the introduction of the Lisbon Strategy. The government proposal follows only government policy after the assessment of the Slovenian National Party. It is also a policy-making or policy-making issue in the field of autonomous research. Following this proposal, the government will have legislation in the boards of public research institutions, I said public research institutions, most of them. The National Council of the Republic of Slovenia disagrees with the proposed amendment and believes that the three-partite structure of the 2002 boards of administration, which was, last but not least, exposed by opposition parties to the home labour force and to the meeting of the National Assembly at the first basic examination of the Act. The regulations, as proposed by the Government, are also opposed by representatives of all three Slovenian universities, the Slovenian Academy of Science and Art, the Economic Chambers, research agencies, public agencies for technological development, the scientific and research centre of the Slovenian Academy of Science and Art, the CORISA Institute of Jožet Štefan, the Chemical Institute, the National Institute for Biology, the Union for Education, Education, Science and Culture and so on. I made a mistake because I said they were against the bill. I will say that no opinion of the above-mentioned institutions is positive for the proposed government change. Allow, in general, at least according to the assessment of the Slovenian National Party, the government with such laws or changes of laws does not support the integration between the economy and research activity, but in fact politically delegate the direction Slovenia is supposed to go. I am truly afraid, and in this place I also express this fear of losing myself in this government political direction, but it is indeed completely lost, the human side of development. Last but not least, it was confirmed by yesterday's meeting of the parent working body when we discussed the resolution or the national programme on development and research activities for the coming period. Government policies are aimed at increasing the competitiveness of businesses, which is, I believe, quite right. Finally, we must meet the Lisbon Strategy's objective, the Bologna Declaration and be more competitive in the European and global space. And yet, at what cost? In the national programme, too, it has been heard, lost or not important to sociological, humanistic sciences. I will conclude this short introductory part, which we have prepared in the Slovenian National Party, in fact with one sentence, which I have already highlighted at the previous meeting. In the Slovenian National Party Group, we estimate that different, more substantive measures will be needed to achieve the Lisbon Strategy and other objectives to which the Republic of Slovenia is also committed.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u150	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Ivan Yelen to present the position of DeSUS.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u151	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Ambassadors and Members, representative of the Council of State, Minister! In the DeSUS Group, we will vote in our conscience, particularly because of the fact that it is not good, that the government has such a strong influence in this area and that the solutions proposed leave little to those who are employees in this area and who also know it better. We also have doubts about the opposition of trade unions to education, science and culture, which oppose the adoption of this law and rightly advocate that the structure of administrative committees and public research institutions remain the way it has been, as the changes envisaged would certainly reduce the impact of all employees on the decision-making of the work of the three important institutions. In our view, it is a matter of reducing autonomy and thus increasing the pressure of political February on decisions rather than overcoming the profession, work and opinion of professionally competent people. We have also left the decision to vote in our conscience to individuals because the coordinating research institute is talking about the proposed composition of the board of directors being a step backwards, as is the opinion of the Institute of Joseph Stefan and the Chemical Institute. The same opinion is expressed by the State Council on the Committee in its view that they do not agree with such a composition of the boards of directors in public research institutions, as this is how autonomy has been lost, which has given greater autonomy to the scientific and research spheres vis-à-vis the State and its institutions. As we have said, in the DeSUS Group, we have decided that everyone will vote in accordance with their conscience, because in our view we cannot agree with the proposed centralisation, which would put all the levers of decision-making into the government's hands in an area which, in our opinion, is not within our competence.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u152	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Eva Irgle to present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party as a speaker.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u153	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Minister, honourable Members and honourable Members! At its meeting, the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia decided that the National Assembly should decide once again to amend the law on research and development activities. Their main and, in fact, their only argument was that the proposed change in the composition of the boards of public research bodies would lose the level of autonomy that distinguishes between public and state. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are aware that research programmes representing the public service in the field of research activities endorsed by the Administrative Committee must first and foremost follow the public interests and national priorities of the research policy adopted in the national research and development programme. In its opinion, the Government cites [[Quote]] : "The implementation of the national research policy is the responsibility of the Government, which, also through its representatives, which must be in the majority of the boards of public research institutions, can carry out this responsibility and obligation at all. The majority of representatives of the founder in the Management Boards are important for the implementation of the envisaged reforms set out in the National Research and Development Programme proposal. We must be aware that if most representatives of the founders are not on the board of the Public Research Institute, this process will not take place quickly and in a coordinated manner." In the Slovenian Democratic Party, as in the previous debate and vote, we will also today support the proposed amendment to the law on research and development activities. We believe that the current legal solution regarding the structure of the administrative committees of public research institutions and public infrastructure institutions is impractical or inadequate. This is also proved by the indication of the coordination of research institutes in Slovenia, which says that these institutes have been operating completely normally with administrative committees, where the founder now has a majority. That's why I think it's far too much of a diversion of the opposition at this point. Moreover, in CORIS they even recognise that there are no users' representatives on these boards of directors and only slightly less than half of the employees' representatives, for example, between 4 and 3 in favour of the founder's representatives. From the bottom line, the government as a proponent on the basis of practice so far only legalises a solution that has clearly proven appropriate and effective in many years of practice. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that the requirement of the Council of State to re-decision the law is not justified and that we will therefore once again support the proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u154	Thank you. It is up to Mr Ljubo Germič to present the LDS position.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u155	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! The veto of the State Council is an opportunity for us, who have already confirmed this law in the National Assembly, to reconsider our decision to consider that, on the basis of the change, even today, we will reaffirm the belief that the law that has already been passed and that we will be re-declaring today is unnecessary, inappropriate and even harmful. For the three-partite structure of the boards of public and research institutions, which has not yet fully established, we are already changing in a way where the state secures its domination. In doing so, consideration should be given to all who gave us a negative opinion after such a marriage. We've already listed them here today. This is the coordination of the Slovenian research institutes, research unions, the Chamber of Commerce, the professional public, who expressed their concerns, the Council of State in its opinion and also the Council of State, calling for us to reconsider and decide that we did not do the right thing with the first decision. The message we give here is that we do not invite users and operators in the field of development and research to cooperate, but we do exclude them from this cooperation, because we are reducing their role in the boards of directors. This gives the government a lack of confidence in those who are supposed to know what research work should be like in the Republic of Slovenia and what results we need in this area. Of course, from this point of view, we can logically ask ourselves whether the government understands the trends in the establishment of a common European space for which today, both in defence, has been said quite a few words through the content of this law. In our view, such measures with such content speak of the lack of understanding of what a common European research space means, because I understand it in such a way that it is designed on a partnership basis between operators and research users, which, according to the LDS Club, is necessary and necessary for us to achieve development objectives. In the LDS, we do not understand the government's expressed mistrust until, for the first time, the scientific spheres as a whole, i.e. the scientific spheres, i.e. all those involved in the research, development activity, because we give them a minority role in the boards. And we certainly don't understand whether to put in a minority role those who directly support this sphere and those who will also be used in the greatest use of this research is the so-called business sphere. In this case, the government only understands its own right. Of course, in this regard, Mr Minister, we are giving you another thought, because I appreciate your research work, I appreciate your natural logic, and it is difficult to understand that such a proposal goes along with you, because I think it is very irrational. In support of this opinion and the opinion of our Group of Members, I can state the reasons that you are referring to in this way to the explanation of the law, where you say that public institutions should adopt programme guidance in accordance with the government's guidelines and priorities. We have here, from various parliamentary groups, based on how we have a regulated regulation, which, together with the law on research and development activities, accurately defines the ways and procedures and relationships that should apply and which apply to individual actors in development and research activities and also define responsibility. I have also read very thoroughly your response to the decision taken by the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia on the request that we decide again on the content of this law, in which you say that the Government must be able to take action to achieve the objectives of the National Research and Development Programme. It somehow coincided with the consideration of today's law with yesterday's debate on the content of the national research and development programme and, fellow Members and Members, I would like to point out what the content of this national research, development programme is saying and what the guidelines and objectives and fundamental tasks are written down, and we can then re-examine whether it holds the government's opinion that, by means of this measure, or that this measure is right to take action to achieve the objectives within the meaning of the national research, development programme. In doing so, it is noted from the proposal for a national development programme that Slovenia is extremely unsuccessful in the efficiency of the use of resources, the prioritisation of priorities and the use of the results of R & D activities for faster economic and social development. This describes the vision to be borne by the National Research Development Programme. The vision of this programme is aimed at transferring internationally available knowledge to public benefit and economic exploitation and strengthening the ability to manage technological progress as the main source of increasing national competitiveness and the social and human progress of its environment. Slovenia needs more incentives for the joint work of science and the economy and increased development incentives for science and economic projects groups. And when we talk about the key objectives of the programme, we can immediately in the second indent, which follows the indent, where we are talking about increasing the impact of R & D activities in the home environment, that the investment of the economy in R & D should be increased in line with the Barcelona objective, and of course we expect this sphere to contribute by 2010 2% of the amount of the social gross product. When we can continue to talk about the tasks of institutions, we can read again: 'The economic sector must become a much stronger partner to the R & D sector at universities and public research institutions, because it will only make sense to use funds for the development of the economy'. Of course, here the dilemmas are raised and, of course, the justification presented by the government in defence of this law is given to completely different dimensions. For I wonder whether the message that we will give today will be: yes, the economy, we need you to finance, but at the same time we do not need you to decide on priorities in that area, what we will explore and explore in such a way that it will be useful, useful in all sciences. Because that was also yesterday, I would say, a very important part of the debate on the national research and development programme. Of course, part of these arguments, which I am referring to here, do not speak in favour of the law, and therefore I propose, Mr Minister, honourable fellow Member and fellow Members, that we reconsider on the basis of all of these, whether we really want to have research and development activities in institutes such as will be run only by government representatives, or whether we want to have research and development activities conducted in such a way that those who, of course, can contribute most in this segment can participate. These are certainly the researchers and scientists who are doing their research at these institutes, these certainly are the ones from the business sector that are using these research, and of course we want the government to propose, in its share of tripartite cooperation, that is to say, those representatives who will, of course, follow that we will be able to build on the knowledge-based society. I am sure that if the law had not been passed in 2000, we would be in a phase today when such a law should be proposed. Therefore, every step back from this law towards the maintenance of these institutions is a poor step. Therefore, colleagues and colleagues, there is a re-decision before us, correct the exam so that we can correct the error that has been made and give a clear message to the research and development spheres, a clear message to the economy that we want their cooperation and that we support their involvement in governance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u156	Thank you very much. And the last one has the word mag. Majda Potter, on behalf of the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u157	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, distinguished Mr Doro Hvalica, representative of the Council of State, Member of Parliament and Members! The position of the Social Democrats' Group on the required veto on the law on research and development is based on the existing definition and position of the Social Democrats' Group on it. So when we re-vote on the law, we will vote against it. We have always advocated that a law that does not contain only three articles, which the government claims to be without prejudice to the basic principles of 2002 of the adopted law on development and research activities, is unnecessary, bad and harmful in its effects. The removal of the three-partite structure of the boards is completely unacceptable to the economy at a time when we are dealing with a European-oriented direction on the participation of employees in management, especially in the field of research. If the fundamental development objective of a democratic society is the highest possible degree of social inclusion, if the objective of the partnership and the related dialogue, consensus and respect between the social partners, then, in a mild sense, the decision and the Government's insistence on this law is shortsighted. A policy that thinks that scientists, researchers, creative and critical thinkers cannot contribute to the quality management of research institutions, is either blind or at least shortsighted, but certainly original, because they do not know it elsewhere. This is not only the beginning of the end of all decency and ethics, but a solid proof that the government does not believe in the autonomy of science. The new law on research and development activities, which introduces the full state management of institutions in research activities, is a major step backwards with regard to the quality management of institutions based on the principles of state science autonomy and partnership with social society. It is a new tool of state science control and thus subordinated the Slovenian creative mind to the state's official office and to every policy. It is an expression of the drive towards ethatisation of Slovenia and the return to a long-standing period of administrative management of Slovenian society in the development of the most sensitive area, that is, in creating new knowledge as a support for competitive technological reconstruction and quality higher education. It is also known from history that it must be autonomous if it is to be what it is. The idea of state-controlled science is an expression of the belief that policies and offices can channel scientific flows more and more responsibly. This idea is growing from the belief that only in Slovenia science must develop according to policy order and not according to scientific knowledge of researchers. For a mature and responsible policy as it is appropriate for a member of the European Union, this should only be [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u158	Please, listen! There's only magic in the word. Spending.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u159	In the government's written opinion, from which part has already been cited, where the government imposes a great responsibility that it must have most representatives on the board of administration, if it is only in this way that it can carry out its responsibility and obligation in general, I think of the image of a giant carrying the world on his shoulders. [[...]] This government imposes great responsibilities and perhaps it would be wise now that we are no longer living in a time of myths, to share the burden of smallness, because only in an active dialogue with the scientific sphere, research users and those who finance can find the best effects. Let me use the numbers to illustrate what the government is actually proposing. It proposes that the Governing Board, which is to be composed of five to nine members and in which two conditions are to be met, namely that the Government should have a majority and that employees and users should have the same number of representatives, means that the Government will have two representatives on such boards, three to six members and employees and users, one and only in the nine-member board of directors. What this means at the present time, when we also know the governance law, on co-management in institutions where the voice of employees must also be clearly and sufficiently influential, I leave to the judgment of this National Assembly once again, knowing that there is little possibility that the majority will be able to convince how blind such behaviour is. On the last page of the bill, where it is possible to read, what procedures have been carried out in the drafting of the law, it is clear from the accompanying declaration of compliance of the bill with the rules of the European Union that the Minister for Higher Education, Science and Technology has not consulted universities or international organisations. At the same time, we have heard that there is no agreement between the institutions that there is no agreement to be expressed by the unions that there is no consensus in the state world. How many more disagreements will have to be said to convince the National Assembly that what we are doing is not good, because the government is saying and expressing a highly patronizing, paternalistic attitude towards the scientific sphere, although it is saying great words about how we must collectively take responsibility for the reforms that are announced, because in the Government's opinion it is also possible to read - this is now the last opinion - that most representatives of the founder's boards, public research institutions, as they say, are important for the implementation of the envisaged reforms set out in the National Research and Development Programme proposal. So, we're talking about something that's related to reforms, and we're talking about something that this national assembly is just going to accept, and we're talking about something, something that a research national programme for which the government really has to bear the executive responsibility, but about which it has to report to the National Assembly, and it's also the State Assembly that is adopting the budget, that is, public funds, and also the responsibility and control over how public funds are used, that is to say, any activity in this society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u160	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded with the presentation of the groups of Members, followed by the debate of MEPs and Members. Mrs. Pecanova has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u161	Thank you so much for saying that. This law is a caricature of law that is worthy of the Ministry and the Minister for Higher Education, Science and Technology Development - not in the sense that the Ministry and the Minister are weak, but that such a law comes from such a ministry with such a high rating, as is usually the case with ministries covering higher education and science, having or should at least have them. I believe that the claim that the vast majority of research institutions have not yet adapted the composition of the administrative boards to the law adopted in 2002 has already been attracted to hair, because if we go to look at what the law says, it is not written that the boards must be replaced immediately or within a certain period of time after the law has been enacted, but it appears that it has been suggested that administrative approvals will be replaced after the term of the individual board. It is also logical that some institutions already have boards under the new law or new old law, but most are not because the mandate of these boards is five years. The colleague used the term "paternalistic relations" with public research and infrastructure institutions. I think it is not only this, but it is also a parallelistic attitude towards the economy, because we have heard - I personally have heard the Minister several times before, but we can also read this in the government's opinion to the veto of the State Council - that it is paternalism, if we say that the government will, given that it does not have enough of its own members or its own people who are in the government to ensure that the government is a proportionate or appropriate part of the board of directors from the economy. According to the practice that this government has - not in scientific institutions, but elsewhere proven, we have the evidence at our disposal, I will only talk about institutions, I will not talk about companies - to appoint people in the worlds of these institutions who have no idea how institutions should be run, who have never performed any similar functions, so that they have no idea of how to run institutions, how to run institutions, how to run institutions, how to manage institutions, and it is said that the pyramid, which ends in one person, will also be set up in this case by members of the boards first to ask what to do, and then they will also decide at meetings of the board. I have already told the Committee on Higher Education, Science and Technology Development that I have a concrete case in a very difficult public institution, in a business, not a public institution covering one another, a concrete example of how this government appoints and what people choose to be appointed into the world of the institution. Yes, in a institution that has severe financial problems, which has only managed to somehow get out of red numbers in the past term, but not yet definitively named into the world of a human institution, such as a retired teacher, such as a retired head of a student's home and things like that. I have no objection to either teachers or school principals, but I know that such people, of course, cannot monitor, manage or monitor how the administration of one such public institution leads and what its successes are. For this reason, I believe that, of course, under conductorial tactics, some people in the government will be selected to do their jobs in the administrative boards of these research institutions, and we certainly cannot expect these public institutions to work in the interests of the economy in general, to work in the interests of the public sector, but to work in the interests of the current government. I think it is high time that this government and its President are aware that they cannot go through life in this country by controlling completely until the last hour of this country, to which cleaning woman will work in some institution or in some economic society. I think that this has come across all normal borders and that it is, of course, necessary to vote against such a law - unnecessary, unworthy of such a ministry and unworthy of our countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u162	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. By the way, I would like to ask Members and Members or leaders of the groups of Members to sign off on those who do not want to talk, because this will make it easier for us to work because I see that you are missing something. Now he's got a word for it, Mr. Milenko Ziherl.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u163	Thank you for your word, Vice President. I would also like to define ourselves before we once again support the law, which is based on the principles of the Lisbon Strategy, when it is necessary to give a new impetus to society through the restructuring of research and development. I would like to point out that, following the new EU recommendation, users should increasingly contribute to R & D, up to 1.5% of GDP or more. If this funding structure changes, in favour of users' shares, it is logical that the structure of the boards should also be changed. In any case, a certain impulse is needed to cut or enter a purpose, encouraging certain developments in the current self-sufficiency of the institutions. In the boards of directors, most of them had so-called domestics, which is legal, inside the house, and they shared their vacations under the cover of some autonomy. There's been a lot of mistakes. If I only remember "Kranjski Sorbone", where the rector had 105 graduates, 8 masters a year, which is physically impossible, and so on. I have many years of experience with access to foreign knowledge and home knowledge. In my long-term practice, I worked constantly in multinationals, which was up to my feet to the knowledge of the Continental, Semperit, and at the end of Good Year. We were very skeptical of the so-called home knowledge and had bad experience - for what? Were our people less capable? No! No! No one was breathing behind their collar," they could "invent hot water" and sell "bluff" on their home market. That is why I am certainly taking the stand - and this law is one of the steps towards the market in science and research. I've had a bad experience at the Institute in the past. From Sava Tires we went to the institute where they, I'll say, sold a certain thing - it doesn't matter which institute. Mainly, my boss and I commented when we were leaving, with the famous Preshern version, "Just a little comfort, brothers, I'm feeding you." And that's because nothing happened because there were problems under the carpet because there was no impulse after some useful application knowledge. And the new law, I mean, that's exactly what it brings - some unrest, some safe chairs might even hesitate, the full empty box won't sell anymore, it'll have to be more involved in international knowledge, in the exchange of knowledge. I have read an article on how many engineers are supposed to need from these science and technology areas to implement the Lisbon strategy, but they would also need institutions, where in a particular programme they will not only invent something for themselves but also something useful. I will therefore once again support and vote in favour of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Now it's mag's turn. Tomaž Strabe.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u165	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and respectable colleagues! I will, of course, support the marriage again. I am surprised at the opinion of the State Council, which has shown that it is a kind of protector of narrow - I say so myself - and I apologize if this will be taken in a poorer form, but actually in the Czech interest. And you claim this inadvertently, without clear arguments to me that this is the best solution - three-partite, all the same number of representatives of the boards. It is thought, of course, that we will be happy to agree, to protect our own peace and to prove as much against taxpayers as possible how we operate economically and successfully. At the same time, we forget the simple fact that this was in the 2002 law and never established. Unbelievable! You are such an ideal solution, which has been enacted and until now has not been enforced, that this has not been done, is difficult to imagine. Well, this tripartiteness and this system, which was enacted in 2002, was followed by the famous one, because you know, the nice logic of self-governance, how we're going to agree nicely, of course, in the background, we know from practice, those who lived in those times, were decided in tight circles and confirmed in these self-governance bodies. There were also often broader debates, but in fact it was decided in smaller circles. So I believe, and I have already told the committee that the solution proposed by the government, which is the government and the minister, is a solution that brings serious responsibility to those who are proposing their representatives to these boards. And of course, since most of the members of the boards under this law are proposed by the government, this responsibility is primarily on the government. However, the Administrative Committees, acting in a rational and constructive manner, shall discuss in such composition all aspects necessary for the good work of these research and development institutes. And without clear responsibility and without the possibility of the one who assumes most of the responsibility to take action when things do not go in the right direction, of course it is not possible to demand such full responsibility. And this will now allow what is written in government or state documents, and some will also be accepted by us - the National Development Programme and various strategies or measures - to make this operational work, that is, the government, that responsibility or those objectives can also be pursued. Among other things, through what those protectors of the present state are most afraid of, also by changing the current situation in terms of who manages, who is responsible in these institutions. Every good operator, director and researcher, of course, seeks to have good co-workers, to cooperate well with the academic sphere, to cooperate well with researchers and also to make even more successful and to enforce market research achievements, particularly by cooperating very successfully with the economy. In fact, this is now taken over by the proposer of all this, and I think that we must all work now to see that the proposer, especially here in this case is the minister, can then apply these matters through his policy. Let me give you an example of what is happening in this country these days, when the so-called research sphere is not going to say scientific sphere, trying to establish one, perhaps even a great opportunity for the Slovenian economy or even a country, a simple and efficient toll system, for example, that something like this cannot be implemented through the relevant institutions of this country. I hope that the Minister will be involved in this exercise of our applied development knowledge, in which the educational sphere is also involved, says the university here that it will be possible to overcome an existing state and move into a better state of technology or system. But of course, when you interfere with the existing situation, you have a resistance, in this case unfortunately the resistance of the State Council, which is supposed to represent exactly, at least in my opinion, most of the interests of this society. Unfortunately, gentlemen in the state world, you stand on the principle of maintaining the existing state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u167	Thank you very much. I will also re- back up the law on which the State Council vetoed. Veto as an institute for further consideration was, in the case of this law, misapplied. Indeed, the state world, with its hybrid role and competent impotence, shows signs of loss of judgment and deep frustration. Those councillors who do so for such modest reasons, I must say, will have an even greater conviction in the Slovenian public that it is a dry branch of Slovenian democracy and that the requirements for its abolition will be strengthened.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u168	Mr Jerovšek, we are discussing the bill, not the state world.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u169	Yeah, well, that's why I was surprised by this veto on this marriage. Indeed, the fact is that I think it is a perfectly normal proposal from the government, that one who is the founder of the financial fund has a majority role in the board of directors, and that it is also to keep abreast of the rationality of the research programme. In fact, if we follow only farming logic, even science is not wrong. In fact, this farming logic says and the old rule on farmers was that "when there is no master or domestic son among the workers, then these workers usually do very little." They said they were fighting, they didn't deserve lunch often. And you know, through research programs, it's possible to get the country to the drum when it's run poorly. And I don't think the state will be so stupid that it will send incompetent people to these boards of directors that it will send people to whom, as a Member of Parliament has said, it will not be far from enlightening what is happening within these research institutions, what is being explored. And in my opinion, the biggest abuse of this argument here is to talk about losing the autonomy of these institutes, losing autonomous science and so on. Look, all of us who have been in contact with science or research activity know that 30 years ago, which I remember, there have been a lot of false authority in important positions that have made a major decision about the distribution of money, and this has been happening all along, I'm not saying that with the new law it will be better, but these false authorities have been able to choose their position. And, of course, this is a cry from these kinds because you know that based on these false authorities and their good positions you have the provided levers of power and pressure on public opinion. I will give you an example of so much talk about autonomous sciences, how so far this science has been ideally autonomous; otherwise, I mentioned it yesterday, and I think it needs to be mentioned again. When the reporter of the Evening on the New State Holiday on November 23rd, Maister's Memorial Day asked about the presence of the Master, historian Bož Repeta also asked, [[....]] [[The ad from the bench.]] I'll say it again today, you have to do it again. She asked how the former regime worked, saying that the removal of his statue from the Maribor congregation had been ordered by Kraiger. Mr Repe, although acting on all these institutes of the Central Committee, he flatly denied this by stating that he did not know about Kraiger's order. And I'm going to quote from Column Melita Forstnerič Heinšek, how she responded, because I think we need to respond. We know how the Master was silenced. A classic national hero [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u170	Mr. Jerovšek, we are moving away from the darkness again.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u171	No, I'm talking about the autonomy of science and don't interrupt me, please, Mr Pavliha, or I won't believe your thesis that there must be more lawyers in the National Assembly, because then the rules of procedure will be further violated.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u172	Mr Jerovšek, I feel like I'm running the session now, not you, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u173	Let me quote this, because I also have time. The journalist says: Unhappily and amazement was awakened by a distinguished historian who said these days on the side of this officer that he did not know about the aconspirational Maistrova from the Maribor municipal building in front of the school in Šentilj. [[...]] Today, only well - known Sergei Kraiger was so disturbed by the most famous soldier in the hall of the municipal congregation that he even threatened that if the general was not removed immediately from the congregation lobby, he would never return. Last week's local February really scared. Here they must be told that with a swearing that I do not hope to repeat, nor is it written down, then marked General Maister. Journalist says: This was one of the sharpest political statements in the city, in addition to the most historic exclaiming of the Hitlers from the Rotovo balcony. It correctly states, and at the very least, that prominent historians of semi-preciousness should have such excesses, which are filled with all force in local environments from generation to generation, shaken from the sleeve. And Mrs. Potter, that's the autonomy of this guy. And I wonder if, when you were probably a zealous representative, you protested in Maribor about such conduct over a national hero. Don't talk about some autonomous science. She was deeply subjected to it, and it is a disgrace to former education ministers that historians and educators do not know what was going on in these institutes and what those who were employers ordered to do to these scientists. And today they deny that it was so politically motivated. Why are you talking about autonomy? I don't think this autonomy can get any worse so it can get any better. When research money is managed economically, autonomy will improve. Don’t worry, for then the word of true scientific excellence will come to mind, says the developers, who are often blocked and silenced today. And because of this, once again, if in a state world where there are representatives of different structures, there are no awareness of this situation and economy - there are also many economists who should know that the master must also be concerned about the cost-effectiveness of the use of money, although of course I respect that science is divided into a fundamental, fundamental and applied nature and that there must be a relationship here. And I'm sure the smart country will do it much more thoroughly and better. How do some heads here see what the future government will do that will not take into account? Yeah, I don't know how. I firmly believe that, with transparency, the money provider will also be involved in programmes through very quality people that he will put on these boards, in order to achieve more and that this will ensure the future and development of the next generation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u174	Thank you very much. Mag. Spending wants to replicate.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u175	Mr Jerovšek, I already quoted you as saying yesterday. What you've just said may really be related to autonomy for you, but I think it's related to the possibilities of behavior and knowing things. What you're talking about isn't proof that science isn't autonomous, but it's just proof that every scientist, even if he's an expert in some field, doesn't know everything. And I worship those scientists and experts who are aware, "I know I don't know anything."
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u176	I won't allow a replica of the replica. Mr. Moge has the floor. You can apply to the debate later when the time is right.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u177	Mr Vice President, thank you very much for your words. Dear Mr. Doro Praise, Members and Members of Parliament, a very nice greeting! Unlike the predecessor, I must say that I am pleased that the State Council has so much obedience to statehood that it responds to social problems, to the problems of equality, as discussed at the previous point, and also to the professional problems. I no doubt greatly appreciate the people who represent the academic sphere in the state world, headed by Dr. Mencinger, who was the Rector of the University of Ljubljana. And I also have reason to believe to these people that, with regard to the reasons cited, the State Council has proposed a veto to this law. Listen, if I turned a little bit to Prešern, who said, "let's just start with Homer," I hope this doesn't hit us, I would say, if we look vertically now, Mr. Minister, the Council of Public Schools and Schools, Primary Schools and Public Music Schools, there are three representatives of the founder, five workers' representatives and three parents' representatives. The Council of Public Vocational Schools, Gymnasium and Student Home consists of two representatives of founders, five representatives of workers, two representatives of parents and two representatives of apprentices or students. If we go to a law on higher vocational education, then the school world is set up as an educational institution and consists of two representatives of founders, two representatives of employers, five representatives of workers, two representatives of students. And you'll say, these aren't academic public institutions, but I'm sure the academic public institute is also a university. If we look at the university, then we separate two organs, one is a Senate, because of autonomy we know who's putting it up, and the other is a board of directors at the university. The Management Board shall be the body of the higher education institution and shall be established by means of an act establishing it. I have obtained one of the decisions on the transformation of the University of Maribor, the other two are similar, which says that the Administrative Board of the University is the body of execution, has nine members, namely three representatives of the founder, four representatives of the University, one student representative and one employer representative. This means that such a structure at the university is okay, but in research institutions it is completely wrong to have a structure that is similar to the topic. What does that mean is that there are people working at the university with different vats, with different minds, and they work at these institutions with the wisdom that the government wants to have most of them. Dear colleagues, this does not hold up any argument. We, when we adopt the law now, will change the boards of directors. And I think, I will be very grave, Mr Minister, that there are two options, either we change the boards or we replace the minister. As public research institutions are established, the founder of the Republic of Slovenia is a government with constitutional rights and the minister is most concerned about them. And if the minister can't arrange this sphere through the mechanisms he has in hand, rather than let himself go to the board of directors, where he'll send his vats to work, then God protect us from such a minister. I don't think this thing, Mr. Secretary, is good. You will return to these institutions once the mandate has passed, and I don't know if you can look your coworkers in the eye with this law when you degrade these people. My personal opinion is, from what I have said, that the government, as in other areas, is now trying to bring all the boards of directors back together with its cylindrical machine, to replace everything, and these boards of directors are a good cover for changing the directors of these institutions, and we are again in the press house, as well as in the appointment of directors, as in the public administration and everywhere, on the same page. We, respected colleagues, are doing these things to essentially support these public institutions. The Minister upstairs, as he is now, will not be guilty of anything if this sphere works badly. Nothing. He will never expose himself and he will say that the work was bad there, but it is bad because they were doing bad work and when he now sets them up and proposes and the government will appoint a majority, that is to say 5, but the poor employers of one I think the contractors of one, I don't think there will be any responsibility on the minister, because he put them there, but it is the first responsibility of those who will sit there and work. By this law, which is adopted today, we give no confidence to those who sit on the boards of public research institutions. And because of this, respected colleagues and colleagues, I cannot accept this law, I am grateful to the State Council for vetoing it. There's one last thing I'd like to do. See, it is impossible for us to adopt a law that the interested public and the institutions oppose, which the Chamber of Economics opposes, which the unions oppose, which the opposition, but that is not important, opposes, but even the State Council opposes. I think that a country that adopts such laws, which almost everyone opposes, is doomed to failure. I think that if we adopt this law today, we will not want to have no idea of the great fruits, we will bring confusion, fear, political dictatorship to the boards of administration and to the directors of these institutions and, of course, reduce the quality of the work of these institutions, which should be our light today. There are few of us now who listen to these words. At a committee meeting where we adopted a national research programme, which must be the brightest point of all, there was no one on TV, no one reported it, no one was there, no one was interested in it, but there was an investigative commission or something like that, and then the cameras are flashing. I think that, with regard to public opinion, respected colleagues and colleagues, we have not yet matured enough to realize that we are still dependent on research and science, because of this, respected colleague and colleagues, I really cannot support this law and I think that the Minister could find, as the founder of the founding acts, a completely different way to get a better job than to change just this article of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u178	Thank you very much. It's Dr. Slavinec's turn.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u179	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. So, I made a statement, even though I am not pretending to be able to make a difference with our discussions, because the situation in this House remains unchanged today, and despite all our arguments, the law will be confirmed. However, I felt obliged to announce on account of my conscience that I would point out that I am doing what is possible for my fellow researchers at this time, and that is why I do not envy the Minister for your former fellow researchers, too, because after all the references and all the talks I have heard that you were one of the best, and that is why I understand, on the one hand, that you must now vehemently support such a law, which, on the other hand, represents a very poor journey to further research, to the further development of our research institutions, because the support of these institutions is certainly not a step towards their appearance on the market and the multiple obvious tripartiteness, or that, in this case, the minimum majority is also essentially irrelevant, given the experience that we have here in the National Assembly, is one of the more than half, then all others are unnecessary and irrelevant, because they will be voted in such a way and in the sense of what has already been stated. In a foreign country, often in some countries where I do not want Slovenia to join and not take them as an example, some avoid cooperation with state research institutions, even state schools have no meaning, value and reputation, so I would not like to see research activities now supported by state television, and I am afraid that this will also be followed by educational activity and university autonomy. I also do not agree with the fact that the condemnation of the State Council and its decisions is referred to as deranged in so far as they have expressed their views, as they include experts from the types of users who will also feel the effects of this law and, of course, can be most familiar with it and therefore have a qualified decision on it. If there is no master, I agree that things are going wrong, absolutely. But I wonder, why not be good masters of the kind who will rule? Let's also look at the control councils. We often see the qualifications of the people proposed to the supervisory councils. All right, I also agree with such a dictatorship that in the supervisory councils, the majority of the founders' sides are, but, however, we can consider and also accept this fact that good researchers and little less good, but on average researchers are certainly far more familiar with their research activities, and I expect that, therefore, the most meaningful thing is also in the supervisory councils and any other management bodies to appoint someone who has some research experience, research knowledge, and let us write down these conditions for members in research councils, in supervisory councils of research organisations. Because of all this marriage as such, I will not support it. [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u180	May I have peace in the hall, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u181	and although I doubt my success, I appeal to all of you to reconsider and take into account the arguments given to us by the Council of State, because, at the first debate, we have seen that the law can be substantially improved by minimal corrections, that it will be more useful and make the research activity more successful, research activities give a new impetus, but at the same time ensure that researchers decide for themselves what is the most important subject of research. [[..]] Of course, as I said before, there are good researchers and less good researchers, there are also good research institutes and less successful research institutes, but there is certainly no sense, fair or least proper to researchers to throw them all into the same basket as others who can become such with certain incentives, as we are making the first step towards those on which the further development of Slovenia is based will escape abroad. For this reason, let us also consider our decisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u182	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Spending.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u183	Thank you for your word. The debate before the re-voting of the Law on Scientific and Research Activities gives me two conflicting views. When I see the request of the State Council as once again an opportunity for a serious consideration of the withdrawal of the law, which, I stress, is unnecessary, bad and harmful, this opportunity or a re-debate gives me again with sadness, regret and resentment, how some can devalue Slovenian science, individual scientists in it and where they do not therefore have some objective criteria, but it is the most common criterion for expressing such judgment their behaviour and knowledge of things; it is what it is. Among the 17 institutions we're talking about, it's not just those that are focused on science and technology. Among them are those who are committed to humanism. And I fear how their results will be evaluated if the words about so-called science can be heard, if words can be heard about true scientists and true science. And if this is really to guarantee the autonomy of scientists - I have always considered scientists to be very responsible people because they are given to discover new things, because they are always given to decide whether they will actually be able to use what they have discovered for the benefit of people or perhaps not their discoveries are such that they can be abused. The debate on this law gives me another very unpleasant knowledge. In all the principled debates on how the state will withdraw from here and from there, it is increasingly evident at every step when we adopt the various laws in this national assembly that the state, through the government, is, of course, increasingly present in all the levels of our lives. I don't know why those experts, or, I don't know, those people, because I don't even know if they're going to be experts in a particular area, or whether they're going to be officials, why they should be more responsible, better, more capable, under what criteria this will be determined, why people who work at institutes don't consider themselves responsible, why those who are contracting researchers don't consider themselves responsible, to be reasonable people? A whole series of questions arise at a time when, as has already been said yesterday, we discussed the resolution, the national programme of research and development activities, and there were also such things as how to reorganise everything that exists so far, reorganise universities, reorganise institutions, and there are very strange numbers, as it should be. When they talk about how to decentralise, to increase autonomy, I read in the government's opinion on this law, how to get everything together in one hand in order to manage well, responsiblely this sphere, which we call the scientific sphere, is worrying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u184	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerovšek, the replica, were you misunderstood? Note is not a condition under the Rules of Procedure, according to the Rules of Procedure you can have a replica, if you are misunderstood, let yourself read, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u185	I must protest that Mrs Potrata is talking about indignation, about how some have evaluated Slovenian scientists. I don't know if this was about my guidance on facts? To your understanding of autonomy, I must say that when you say that this case is not proof that science is not autonomous is the best evidence. In this case, hiding Socrates' thought, I know that I know nothing, protecting and justifying the inaccuracy of scientists or the ideological orientation of some previous system historians, an ideologically colored view of past history. You're so well aware of that. The fact is, you're faking the facts. I'm protesting that you're talking about how Sodom and Gomorrah and Cataclysm are going to be, and I don't know what's going to happen. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u186	Mr. Jerovšek, this is already a controversy. In what part were you misunderstood?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u187	In a number of parts. And you're interrupting me. I would once again plead for not to mention the wrong fact, not to say that so far science has been autonomous and Mr Moge has cited the best example when you are also talking about major cases, how the media are so far autonomous and independent. At yesterday's most important point, the resolution on the development programme came from a journalist, with such an excellent state in the media, with such a good monitoring of national interests, Mr Moge said so, and that is a fact, that is the truth. And these are credits for what you have done so far in science both in the media and in many other fields. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u188	Thank you very much. This, of course, was not a replica, but I repeat, also for Mrs Pecanovo and everyone else, under article 70, it is not a condition for a replica that someone has been named. This is a practice that has fallen apart, but it is contrary to the rules of procedure. According to the Rules of Procedure, the right of replication shall be exercised by those who have been misinterpreted or misinterpreted, and I shall strictly apply this Article until I am of the Business Commission Procedurally, on the use of the Rules of Procedure. [[...]] Yes, Mrs. Pechanova.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u189	Procedurally. I understand you, Chairman, what a replica means and when you admit it, but I think whoever signs up for the replica needs to know what it's replicating. Mr. Jerovšek did not know this, and therefore we should do it procedurally so that we do not give him the word at all or should take it from him after the first three words. That would be essentially [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u190	Please, be quiet! Of course it's my call. If we took such strict account of both the replicas and the debates and the subject matter of the debate, then we would always take the word of everyone. So there must be some tolerance here, but when it exceeds the business framework, then the President is obliged to warn. I'd be happy to continue with the session if you'll calm down. Thank you very much. Dr. Gaber has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u191	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary! The Council of State gave the National Assembly the opportunity to reconsider and, if possible, to pass a retrial in deciding on one important law that we are adopting. I'll back up the idea of the state world on my own. This is probably no surprise to anyone, especially so much more so I think it is necessary to support it, because I expect a fellow minister to know here today at the time he still has at his disposal how to take into account the sciences that are being discussed here today, in fact at the very least and quickly. I know he'll be able to tell you a lot about how he decided to distribute money, because I personally know that he was among those who decided who got the research and I think he was doing his job well. He was among those who decided on this in a system that today is referred to as an enemy and an incompetent system. I'll touch something else myself. Today, we have before us a law that they think must be rejected by the research institute, the Economic Chamber, the State Council, practically there are no serious people outside the ruling coalition who would believe otherwise. If this is not enough reason to reconsider and leave this marriage aside, then I do not know what is sufficient reason for this coalition. The arguments, Mr. Minister, you're quoting, are extremely weak, I'm sorry, but that's true. To claim that in this way you will be able to coordinate the programmes of the institutes with the national programme, as the legislative service has also warned you, is a fictional story. Because you already have an existing law as a government mechanism for giving consent to the work of the institutes. If the government does not agree to the programme, it simply stops the Institute from doing what it wants. Moreover, the question is whether or not the government already has too much power. To make up that she doesn't have a weird one. The government has contracts because things are contractually arranged on projects, on programmes, on evaluation mechanisms in the agency and elsewhere, in short, on mechanisms to regulate things. It is true that it is pointless to say that it will increase the role of the economy in deciding which projects will run in Slovenia and which will not. This claim is mildly strange. We will increase the role of the economy by reducing the number of business decision makers who need research on board boards there. It's like they call it the rain when the floods come. That logic is here at work. I think we all understand what this is all about. This is not about increasing efficiency, it is not about increasing transparency. It's just two. First, for the wrong idea, which reigns in this government and in this coalition, that it is possible to regulate the situation in society from the command post and to paint them in their own image and guide them. This is a mistake that has not been first seen on this earth in this area. But nothing better will end, unfortunately, for the country as well as for the country as it has ever been before, if this situation lasts a long time. The second reason for evil is proseic. You're talking about who you're putting on board. I would point out that it is also not a coincidence that the deadline within which these boards should be replaced is just a few months. The former authorities had a different logic and allowed the mandates of the Management Boards to expire. Now they need to be replaced because they need to be replaced by directors. Someone from the coalition said that right here. The Human Resources Tsunami will also come to research institutes. You're not going to stop where you are now. It's obvious you're moving on. For example, representatives of the State had to be replaced before the expiry of the mandate at the Chemical Institute. One was from Sava, the other was from Krka. Why did it have to be replaced? Because he wasn't compatible, probably, or by accident, they were solved. I do not know that you have done anything wrong in that board of directors; it was a very eminent institute which the Minister knows well. It's about ordinary politics and supporting, illusions about how the country is run.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u192	Thank you very much. Now the Minister has the floor and then the representative of the Council of State. Mr. Secretary, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u193	Thank you very much for your words, Mr Vice President. Respectable members and members of the National Assembly! There were so many emotional words, there were so many ideological things. If we focus on the facts, the opposition claims that all the laws are okay, that we have all the options we can work with, and at the same time Mr Germič says exactly that we are all aware that we are ineffective in the implementation of the funds and are ineffective in the fulfilment of these things. These are the facts. And the fact is that, of course, we can control the programmes and that the programmes are great, we meet them and so on. The problem is in detail, in the implementation of programmes, in how things are done, and this needs to be monitored from the outside. Therefore, the boards of directors must have the opportunity to monitor this matter from the outside. If the government accepts something after one year, it finds it wrong, then it takes action, and two years have passed before anything shows up. So the government is an executive body. Mrs. Pecanova said some pensioners are weak. Please, just like Mrs. Pecanova, I have no objection to pensioners. The point is that their scientific, political orientations, i.e. scientific policy, are not from the 1950s or 1960s, but that this is a modern direction, whether they are pensioners or, say, modernists. The fact is, this is happening. And when someone said that this is essentially a mistrust to the boards of directors, in a sense it's true. If we look only at the fact that there was no public debate in the committee discussion, there were no journalists, in short, the public image of the institutes is poor. And the public image must also be taken care of by the board of directors; it must order certain things to the director. And it wasn't done in 15 years. Not a lot of small things have been done, a lot of things that need to be coordinated, and this needs to be thought of, in short, a lot of very common operational work. And since the government is in some sense an operational, operational body, it wants to create certain conditions. And we talk about terms all the time. Everyone who says something is wrong is talking about research and content, and we are talking about the conditions of research work in the boards. And believe me, the conditions of research work at the institutes, at these seventeenths, were not the same for all researchers. And that's what was doing the most trouble. And we want to create a level playing field for all researchers in the institutes of Slovenia in order to be comparable to Europe. That is why we need people on the boards of directors who will be focused on the European Research Area, which will have views not from the 1950s or 1960s but from the 21st century. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u194	Thank you very much. Mr. Praise, if he wants a word on behalf of the State Council.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u195	The process of policy intrusion into the institute began in the previous mandate with a law on the enforcement of public interest in the field of culture. At that time, you who today have advocated this solution have strongly challenged the solution, which is the same result that this law will leave behind in the field of culture. First. Second. You have the right to think about it, that's all the state world gives you. Right and opportunity to think. Thinking about it also means thinking under the weight of arguments, or under difficult emotional situations that I am witnessing to today. You will not simply convince me because I belong to that half of the members of the state council who believed that the new government could act differently from the previous one. I still believe that this is feasible, that it is also possible to hope for this and that it is also possible to see the concrete results of such behaviour, despite the fact that one of your colleagues, Mr Štebe, who peacefully admits that he does not know the constitutional position of the State Council, is clear that we are acting in accordance with the interests of the characteristics and so on, and so on. You are the representatives of all the people, at least I hope that your debate was so. But we are representatives of individual, clearly articulated interests and groups, and that is what we are called and act as such. And today this veto is the result of one, one of these interests, which has clearly taken into account the research activity or its bearers. I will not comment on Mr Petkovsk's insult because I did not fully understand it and, in fact, I apologize. Look, the National Assembly, Members of Parliament are passing laws. This is your primary task. Allow researchers at least to cooperate in deciding how they can explore. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u196	Thank you very much. This concludes the debate. But since we still have 29 minutes left, I'm wondering if anyone else would like to discuss it. Please. Because there is quite a lot of demand I will read and then you will tell if you are all: Dr Slavinec, Mrs Pecanova, Jože Horvat, Mr Capuder, Master Grims, Mr Ziherl, Mr Veršnik and Mr Grill. All right, once again and more out loud, I'll put down all the academic and different titles to go faster: Slavinec, Pecan, Horvat, Capuder, Grims, Ziherl, Veršnik, Gril, Jerovšek and Germič, Petan, Moze. 11 reported, 2 minutes each. Let's start with Dr. Slavnik. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u197	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. So this year is the world year of physics that is just running out, dedicated to the hundred-year-olds of Einstein's famous articles, who have changed the world we live in so that we can't imagine it at all. Well, let's just take a look around, see, already this microphone in front of me and the speakers we're listening to, it wouldn't be without these discoveries, the computer with the screen we're seeing up there, then the cameras that are recording us and transmitting a signal to the third program of parliamentary television, including the radio, the phone and this phone here, and finally the chip that shuts off the time and that's on this card that we're voting on, we wouldn't have all this without science and research. Try, apart from the last two listed, to imagine a world and a life without one of these, very difficult. Of course, in this century there has also been an atomic bomb. And I warn you to let science develop beyond the politics that's fueled by the atomic bomb and let it go in this direction, which will give us so much discovery, without which we'll imagine our daily life even more difficult. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u198	Thank you. Mrs. Pecanova has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u199	Thank you very much. And thank you to those who were not in the hall, so that some may come to the word. In fact, the discussions of some colleagues here in the hall were not to say under any criticism, so the combination of the river "cogito ergo sum" and I know I don't know anything, just now I know that I don't know anything, they're a very good combination for what we've been listening to today. First of all, I would suggest that one of the colleagues who said that our researchers and scientists are selling empty crates for the full to be here, because he also has the intended word to justify our entire scientific sphere, because it is the Minister who stressed that today we are not talking about the law that deals with the content of research, but we are looking at the conditions for research and scientific work. It is said that underestimating, embarrassing and talking about our scientists that they were protected as bears because they only sold their knowledge in Slovenia is the least degutant, and go look at the dictionary what it means. And I have to say that I also have to say that the autonomy of science depends on who will be on the board of administration - it is a larifari, but another problem is that the government, and on its behalf, the minister and his co-workers, will certainly succeed in replacing the boards of directors and thus also the management of the research institutions, what it achieves everywhere else, that people will be humble, that their spines will be very receptive to the bottom and that we will have a science that will in fact no longer be science, but will do what politics will want them to do after policy is dictated.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u200	Thank you. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u201	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr Minister, Mr Pavlica. In history, Slovenians have made a fortune, and today we are overcoming many excellent researchers. They work at home today in public research institutions or other institutions. There's a lot of them out there. All of us here surely agree that Slovenian research activities must still be cared for, be attentive to, as it should mean a motor, a catalyst for the development of the Slovenian economy. Of course, I very much agree with all those who have warned in the debates that it is not possible to think and have only research in the technical or natural field in front of them, that it is also a research activity in the humanistic fields. And where's my problem? I am convinced that there is not enough interaction, that there is a lack of business partnership between public research institutions and companies. There is a lack of implementation of research results in the economy. And I'm also sure there's too many good research results that end up in files or videos. We will provide prosperity, colleagues and colleagues in Slovenia mainly through the development of the economy and with quality jobs at European level. In itself, prosperity will not provide us with research activities if the economy does not find sufficient opportunities in its results for new technologies and new products of high added value. And if there is a lack of partnership between public research institutions and economic companies, then it is the responsibility of the founder to take some action by reorganising the management body in public research institutions. I am convinced that the direction is the right one and I trust the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology and the Government, especially Minister Dr. Zupan, a recognised Slovenian developer and researcher, that he has given very good thought when he proposed a new law. We'll back up the marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u202	Thank you very much. Mr. Capuder has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u203	Thank you very much. The current law on development and research activities has been in force for almost three years, and I must say, I come from such a public research institution myself, and when I spoke with the director of this institution, they did not practically know that they had to change their statutes, because the board of directors would be a tripartite committee. There was nothing going on in this area. That means everyone enjoyed it. And in this public institute, the state now had a majority. She didn't have a board president, but she had a majority, four, three. I think all these words about how science is going to be evaluated because the state will have a majority in public slaughtering institutes are just some threats that I don't think they hold. Especially because scientists or researchers can be independent and autonomous. Otherwise, they find this autonomy for themselves. And I'm not afraid that because the government will have a majority of the boards of directors to run abroad. They ran abroad in the past because of completely different things. Because they were not allowed to do research because they were limited because they were bullied because of their mental convictions. This should concern us, not if the government wants to accelerate the development of science in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u204	Thank you very much. It's mag. Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u205	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you. You know, very much has now been said about the independence of science and its autonomy, but if we look at how this has been done in the past period, I'm sure that if we took a good look, there would be a case like this when an ideological group of very clearly identifiable people set up an institution and then a minister from that party that's close to him feels suddenly a very big need for a very large amount of money to go through, a million dollars of taxpayer's money for this institution. And if you took a closer look, you'd find out that there's a woman working there from that minister. Finally, a commission called anti-corruption is set up, which is so sensitive that it detects every crossing across the border of the Republic of Slovenia, but never in history has it alerted to the issue of such action. And that is why, you know, those who are talking so much about this independence today, with your past conduct, because what I am saying is not only a hypothetical case, but it has also been documented, I think that even in this national assembly, I do not agree with you, but I do respect your attitude and your beliefs, but also respect our determination to regulate these things as we believe it is fair and in line with European standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u206	Thank you. It's Mr. Ziherl's turn.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u207	Thank you for your word, again. It makes me feel a little uncomfortable. Depl. A chemistry engineer, because I didn't make much of a contribution to the dedicated caste of lawyers in this National Assembly, but I'm still going to know what to say. Maybe I was misunderstood that Slovenian scientists are selling empty boxes. They're actually sold by institutes because no one's looking at them because there's no impulse from scientists, and I'm part of them, because I've always worked in the development and technology department, but I have the best opinion. One was working in factories because there was a deadline, a deadline, a goal. And the other is at institutes where you can use your hand to wash your hand, let's shake hands, etc. "we can invent warm water and give nothing of ourselves. The president of the LDS mentioned Alan Ford, and I mention him myself. Then it's "the government to look for ore and waste time." That we have scientists, however, proves that we have the right approach, proves that we have the Krka prizes that motivate young people looking for concrete solutions, specific active substances, chemicals, reagents, not some chemicals that go into the catalogue and then we forget them forever. This means that some guidelines are good, and some are not good, and I think that the new law, which I once again support, will bring unrest to institutions that are similar to Sleeping Trnuljčica, will wake them up to start work to deliver concrete useful results within the framework of the Lisbon Strategy or within a framework that will greatly contribute to the progress of the Slovenian industry and the Slovenian standard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u208	Thank you. That's a nice afternoon's greeting from me, too! Let the first word of thanks be to Vice-President Pavlich for his leadership so far. However, we continue on the basis of the list of additionally declared panellists. Member Rudy Veršnik has the floor. You're giving up. Member Ivan Grill has the floor. He's not here. Member Joseph Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u209	Thank you very much again. See, above all, it bothers me that the grounds for rejecting this law are incorrect. One such ecclesiastical untruths or deceptions is what these benches have said, that there are no serious people outside the ruling coalition who would support the present solution or who would agree that something must be done. I think the last time the minister on the committee explained that he was getting a lot of mail from younger scientists with brilliant references, some very good "Science citation" indices. And I suggest that those who say that there are no serious people compare their indices with those who deny them and insult them here. It is, of course, possible to achieve certain special effects in public on the basis of non-truths. For this reason, I also object to continuing to talk about how terrible things are going to happen. The fact is that there is a need to increase efficiency and transparency in a wide range of areas, and also that there is a need for some change in control. And talking about tsunami is totally unfair and unacceptable. You may need changes in your liberal academy, but do it yourself. That it was a brain trust, you were talking. But he didn't prove himself, at least he didn't prove himself at the polls, that brain trust. Make changes there and do them autonomously, and the country will not interfere. Other than that, please understand that sometimes something has to be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u210	Thank you, Comrade Jerovšek. Member Ljubo Germić has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u211	Thank you so much for saying that. Given that chemists talk a lot today, and even in sequence, I myself have looked at the bibliography of many of us who have debated here, and this review of bibliography is very interesting, but it is also accessible to everyone in the Cobis system. So I would just like to say that on our way to what we are doing today, we have done something else and we can compare ourselves. So, colleague Jerovšek, I hope that you have also reviewed for others and you will be able to see that we have been able to succeed in certain areas at least like you. Next thing. I would point out once again what the Government explains: "The government must be able to take action to implement the objectives of the national research and development programme and to this end we are amending this law." I previously tried to argue with the quotes from this programme, which I will now repeat: "Slovenia needs more stimulation for the joint work of science and the economy. We want to raise the contribution of the economy to 2% of the social product in research and development." How can we talk in the same breath about wanting to increase the impact of the economy while at the same time giving it a mineral role? I think it's here to talk, like yelling in the desert, where no one hears any arguments. And when we want to achieve these goals from the National Research Development Programme, we will return to that. The possibility today is that we do not do this to communicate to the economy, we do not want your participation in the content, but we want your financial contribution, because we already know best what needs to be done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u212	Thank you. I call on Ambassador Rudolf Petan to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u213	Thank you for your word. During this time, I will try to explain why I will once again vote in favour of such a proposal, and on a case-by-case basis, there will be no killings. About three years ago, an innovator asked me, "I know that there are some calls for innovation in production, please find me an address". I did it, I gave him a contact person, and I also think that some institute, after all, doesn't matter. The rest was regulated by the entrepreneur, the innovator himself. Of course we were in touch. He told me how things were going. There they said, "This project of yours is very interesting and we're going to fund it, but for that you have to have this, this, this and this and another analysis." "Yes, I don't need an analysis because I have everything arranged, I just need the means to get into production." "They said," don't worry, we approve of the funds anyway, and we'll do you another analysis and then you'll pay for it together." Okay, so they analyzed him, he made a bunch of papers, and then they told him, and that's all right, and now you need another recommendation, and some things we can arrange, too, and then we'll arrange it once you sign the contract." All right, then came the date of the reckoning. He was granted 15 million funding for this programme in order to introduce innovation in production. But the entrepreneur asked, "How much is this going to cost now, and this analysis?" "Yes, they say, because it's quite simple, you get 15 million, these analyses that we did cost 10 million, and you get another 5 million." He said, "Yeah, people of God, how I get five million more, and I'll pay back 15." "Yes," they said, "that's how it is." Then this man said thank you very much, he said, because we haven't signed any contracts yet, thank God, because I didn't, because for 5 million, he would have to pay back 15 million. And they were all happy. The innovator, because he didn't get involved in having a loss, they were happy because they did 10 million tests for nothing and they were all happy. He was pleased that he could tell his colleagues not to get involved in such projects. Thank you very much. And that is why, of course, I will be in favour of changing this, and I will support this proposal once again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u214	Thank you for your discussion. I call on Ambassador Rudolph Mojet to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u215	Thank you so much for saying that. Once again, it's a good-bye to everyone! There's been a lot of talk about control. Whoever read the law on research activities knows that the Ministry responsible for research, represented here by the Minister, is overseeing the agency. He knows that the Ministry exercises control over administrative acts of public authority, but knows that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia also exercises control over the purposeful use of budgetary resources in legal and natural persons and thus implements these regulations. As far as the projects are concerned, the agency. In order to ensure the functioning of this whole system, the Ministry has, for the first time, a second time, an agency and, thirdly, an act establishing it has that public research institution. If this thing is really so bad and has worked so badly all year long that the minister has proposed this, then in this analysis he should also say and draw other levers in order to resolve this situation. At least what he pulled triggered a wave of dissatisfaction in public, and I think that this solution, at least for me, is extremely bad, if not even harmful. That is why it seems to me that today, when almost all of us are verbally settling over boards and public research institutions, and no one above the ministry and no one over the public agency, I think we are pushing our heads into the sand and trying to solve the problem where there are the least reasons why the system is not working as it should. Our old proverb always says, "The fish stinks on the head." If these things don't work, you know who's responsible for these things.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u216	Thank you for your discussion, too. This concludes the debate and brings us to a decision on that law. In doing so, I would like to point out that, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 91 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, in order to adopt that law, the majority of the members of the assembly must vote, i.e. 46 or more. Before I put my proposal to the vote, I ask, who wants to explain their vote or the voice of the Group of Members? Comrade Gulič, on his own behalf or on behalf of the Group of Members? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u217	Respectable and respected. The issues are similar to those of the previous veto, in fact, they are some principled decisions and, of course, I will vote against this law, as I voted for the first time. There are several reasons. One, of course, is this one, and this is the most important thing, in fact, that the state or in this case, which the government itself adopts again, is a public sector. Of course, it takes it in one particular way, which, I'll say, is quite forgiving, roughly if I use the illustration that the application in these sciences imagines that hematologists are going to do research on hemorrhagics. And that's what it's supposed to be. The second thing that really bothers me, of course, is that such a tall and brilliant scientist as Dr. Jure Zupan, from chemistry, belongs to political alchemy. I don't know now whether he believes so naively in this primordial honesty of the present authority or he's using it to make people hear. Government of course [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] may, in some way, have been able to regulate these requirements by now, but it has not been able to determine them. [[...]] But I'm not that concerned with natural science, I'm more concerned with humanistic sciences. I think it's mainly about how to put some new ideology into all these research institutes. The ideology we know, of course, from the time of the one-party system, but now we're going to have a monopoly, because that sounds better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u218	Thank you. I give my word to Ambassador Gantar. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u219	Thank you very much, Mr Vice-President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, Mr Minister. Of course, I will vote against this law. First of all, because I think the position of this policy, this government and the minister, that the state knows better than researchers, what is good for research, is a lot of nonsense, which sometimes or generally ends very badly, both for research and for the country. Of course, it also bothers me to try to justify a greater presence and power and domination by countries at research institutes with a kind of commitment that state officials and the state-appointed people will also be better off than the economists who are now at the institutes, knowing what is good for the economy in research. This is also nonsense and we do not know why he is doing this, unless he wants to, Mr Minister, simply to take control and control of everything that is being explored in Slovenia. Of course, I could trust him if he thought that his practice was different, that what he was saying might be serious. But no. If we look at appointments to the chemical institute, then we see that, of course, one of these new members, who has already been appointed, is his associate at the Ministry, or a doctor of theology. I do not know what the problem of chemistry research is today the most pressing problem, but I am sure that the theological dimension of chemical research is not the central problem of the chemical institute, unless, of course, it is not only political alchemy, but also alchemy in the true sense of the word if it does not go back three or four centuries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u220	Thank you. And we're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 28. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 28.]] I understand that the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I'm asking for peace in the hall! Until then, I ask that we be joined by representatives of the government who will participate in the 2006 updated draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia. Allow me to inform you that for a total time of 9 hours and 35 minutes, and that the vote on the amendments is in contrast, I ask you to provide the necessary majority for Members and Members so that we can vote on the individual amendments tabled. I'm taking a five-minute break to get government representatives to join us. So the National Assembly will continue its meeting at 17.23. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u221	Members and Members of Parliament, please take their seats, and I ask the representatives of the Government to take their seats. Ladies and gentlemen, if you do not occupy your seats, I will adjourn the meeting of the National Assembly in 30 minutes. The National Assembly shall begin by continuing on the 1st item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the supplementary draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2006. Once again, I would like to inform you that a total time of debate is set for 9 hours and 35 minutes, and all Members and Members are requested to participate in the meeting, because we are approaching a direct vote. Additional draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2006, Comrade Bajc, allow me to chair the meeting, the updated draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2006 submitted to the Assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I therefore give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation. Minister Bajuk, please. [[...]] [[Intermediate speaking.]] Procedurally, please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u222	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I have one procedural question whether the transmission of this item on the agenda or the recording of this item on national television is already in line with the newly adopted law on RTV Slovenia, as it is said that the third parliamentary programme will broadcast a full session of the national assembly, but not just a performance by government representatives and representatives of the sent groups. In addition, television has previously transmitted only the presentation of the budget by government representatives, but they have never had the opportunity to present the budget in direct transmission, or to present the views of representatives of opposition groups, so I ask the leadership of the National Assembly whether this transfer is already in line with the newly adopted RTV Slovenia Act and the third parliamentary programme. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u223	Comrade Bevk, you will be given an answer to your question during today's debate, but of course I will not interrupt this question because I think that the debate on public finances within our country is much more important than the issue of transposition. And the answer, as I said, will be yours. However, I would like to make a statement to the Minister of Finance. Dr. Bayuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u224	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members and Members! In front of you are two budgets, which are crucial for Slovenia to take over the euro in just over a year. At the opening presentation of both draft budgets, we have made some figures that are clearly reflected in both budgets. In the planning of revenue, we have come from long-term projections that ensure medium- and long-term sustainability of fiscal position, while taking into account the requirements expressed in the Stability and Growth Pact, whose consistent respect in all its dimensions is our common commitment and common duty. This planned revenue has enabled us to draw up a good budget. The budget, on the one hand, is based on conservative revenue planning in terms of revenue levels and follows the objectives set out in the Coalition Treaty while opening the door to further reforms. Therefore, it is not necessary to stress once again that the 2006 and 2007 budgets foresee a gradual abolition of the tax on paid salaries, by 20% per year. The importance of this step in the right direction is difficult to emphasise. This is a key element in the direction of the functioning of our country, in order to ensure better conditions for the competitiveness of our economy. Both proposals also provide for the introduction of 20% of the R & D benefit from corporate income tax, which is also very important in order to achieve what we have not been able to achieve so far, and this is the link between the sphere of various public and private sector research institutes and the economy itself. On the other hand, we also introduce the possibility of charging VAT on the basis of payments received and paid for those taxpayers who have not exceeded 50 million tolars in the last 12 months. In the case of income, we also increase relief and mention only some: allowances for a dependent family member who has the right to an allowance for assistance and service under the Pension and Disability Insurance Act; the imposition of a tax base for the resolution of the housing problem, 4% in addition to the current 2% account-based relief; in the case of income obtained from renting, we pay back 40% of the standardised costs instead of 20% that have been legalized in the current law, from 2006 onwards; an increase in the threshold of income achieved for culturers and journalists and domestic craftsmen who produce domestic and artistic products, as well as small midwives, by 70% of the standard costs and from 3.9 million to 6 million turnover per year. In view of the concerns raised so far regarding the assessment of corporate income tax revenues, I would add that in the planning, we anticipate that the share of investment reliefs in total investments will decrease by only 0.5% compared to the previous year, thereby neutralising the impact of R & D incentives. If it is true that the share of revenues in the gross domestic product is anchor, which first signals the reality or non-realisation of the planned revenues, then it can be found that the corresponding proportion of incomes without the European Union's funds in 2005 has not increased, given the estimate of realization in 2005, which is assumed to be 23.8%, not in 2006, where we predict 23.4%, and not in 2007, which we predict 23.5%. Forecasting revenue is one of the most difficult tasks in the state budget preparation process, as small changes in economic assumptions can have a significant impact on revenue. Since we have taken key risks into account in the planning of revenue, I am sure that the estimated revenue in the 2006 and 2007 budget is planned in real terms. In the 2006 supplementary draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia, the share of budget expenditure, including those foreseen from EU funds, is falling from 26.6% in 2005 to 26.3 billion and in 2006 we will not exceed 1.858 billion. The budget deficit is maintained at the same level as in the 2005 draft budget, amounting to EUR 101 billion, or 1.4% of GDP, and it must and will by no means be exceeded. The Committee on Monetary Policy and Public Finance said a lot of words that the budget deficit would not be the one envisaged, which certainly does not. I therefore stress once again that the budget deficit in 2006 will not exceed 1.4% of GDP. The budget revenue in the supplementary draft budget increases by SIT 266,9 million mainly due to the expected additional resources from the EU budget for structural policy and will amount to $1,756,7 billion. Budget expenditure is changing in the global context, increasing by 266.9 million tolars, especially at the expense of European funds for structural policy. However, the main and biggest change on the expenditure side of the budget relates to the provision of funds for transfers to individuals at the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social, where funds for this purpose increase by 2 billion but the total amount of budget expenditure does not increase. The reason for the need to raise funds is that we have not yet been able to achieve certain rationalisations in the area of the valorisation of transfers to individuals and households in the Republic of Slovenia, which we intend to propose briefly to this national assembly. The 2006 supplementary draft budget also includes the only amendment supported by the National Assembly's parent labour force, the Finance and Monetary Policy Committee, and relates to the provision of 6 million tolls of funds for the NOV's Federation of War Disabled Persons and Veterans in Trieste. The programme structure of the budget shows that the priorities of this government are mainly technological developments and programmes in support of science, where we want to increase investment in research and technological development in line with the Lisbon Strategy. In addition to the increase in budgetary resources, there is an even more important relief introduced in the new law on the profits of legal persons, which I have already mentioned, and which has already been said much. Promoting the competitiveness of the Slovenian industry, because we want to increase the competitiveness of our industry and increase the inflows of developing domestic and foreign investment. State roads where funds increase by more than 40%. Health care, where resources to provide optimal health conditions increase by more than 30%. Environmental and nature protection, where funds also increase by more than 30%. A coherent regional development, where we want to achieve faster development of all regions and reduce the backlog of the developed regions, resources increase by more than 60% only in government services for local self-government and regional development. However, particular mention must be made of the financing of local self-government, both through financial compensation and through investment funds for municipalities. This area is the subject of the Government's special attention, as has already been shown in the 2005 budget balance, in which the principal was increased by as much as 10% compared to 2004. In 2006 and 2007, it increases by 4.5% each year, which means significant real growth. In the 2007 supplementary draft budget, the budget deficit is also unchanged and remains at the same level as in the 2007 draft budget, namely SIT 93.1 billion and 1.2% of gross domestic product. The revenue of the budget increases by 71.9 billion, as in 2006, mainly at the expense of European funds for structural policy and is expected to be $1,861 billion in 2007. Budget expenditure also increases by 71.9 billion due to higher European funds for structural policy and will not exceed the total 1954 billion in 2007. Even in 2007 the main change on the expenditure side of the budget in the transfer of individuals is due to the above-mentioned reason. The supplementary draft budget for 2007 also includes two amendments, which were supported by the National Assembly's parent working body, which relate to the provision of 6 million tolls of funds for the union of military disabled persons and veterans of NOV in Trieste and 216 million tolars for the reconstruction of the Vincenzo de Castro elementary school in Piran. It has been mentioned several times and it has been said that there are still many unknowns in the 2007 budget. The biggest is certainly a financial perspective. This stranger still exists. Let me specifically mention here that Mr Prime Minister has authorized me and ordered me to forgive him today for not being able to attend this meeting, which is certainly his wish, because, as you know, he is currently in London in a bilateral conversation with the Prime Minister of Great Britain precisely because of this still open question of the new financial perspective in the European Union. In addition, this government has decided that it is imperative to introduce certain changes for the better tomorrow for all citizens and citizens. The framework of reforms adopted by the government in November is the basis for the activities already being carried out to a certain extent, unless it is only the basis for the necessary dialogue with the social partners. But we will be even more active in the early part of 2006. Changes in the 2007 budget will also include the implementation of the measures taken or reforms adopted. However, since the Public Finance Act requires us to prepare the budget for 2007 as well, the government has drawn up a draft budget for 2007. This budget will only be able to take into account the known facts so far, so I can commit myself now that we will be preparing a change in the 2007 budget in 2006. That is why the government has also not proposed raising the VAT rate for one year further, as we believe it is very important that such a measure could lead to certain speculations on the market. However, the VAT rate will be raised in line with the 2007 revenue assessment by the start of the implementation of the 2007 budget unless other solutions are proposed in the context of reforms. In order not to raise doubts - and this is a very important point of our presentation today - or too many words have been lost since the proposed higher VAT rate for 2007 was not yet proposed, let me just say that the 2003 National Assembly adopted the 2004 budget, which already included amendments to the Law on corporate tax, and the law was adopted only in May 2004 and the financial implications already had a financial impact in 2004. [[This can be verified in Rapporteur No. 83, 10 October 2003, on page 421]] . Finally, I would just like to stress once again our belief that the 2006 budget is a good budget, truly developmental and I believe that this is exactly why it will want your support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u225	Thank you, Dr. Bayuk, Minister of Finance. I ask, does any other representative of the government wish to speak in the opening part in the time declared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia? [[No, no, ……]] Then we can proceed. The supplementary draft budget was also considered by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as the parent working body. I give the floor to the chairman of the Committee, Bojan Starman, to present the report of the Committee. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u226	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! At its 11th meeting, on 6.12.2005, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on Finance and Monetary Policy considered the supplementary draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2006 submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We have received 146 amendments or amendments to this budget that we have discussed on the Committee. First of all, there was a general discussion on both budgets and presentation by the Minister of Finance, Dr Bajuk. I must say - and I will be very brief in my report - that, after the initial explanations and initial discussions of the individual members of the committee, more or less was followed by the discussion of our fellow Member, Mr Cwickl, which lasted for a period of twelve hours. I must say that, despite all the constructive suggestions, the members of the committee listened to him less and less, or we waited for him to stop with his points. We stopped the session constantly with procedural complications, and so in twelve hours we did a more inquality than a quality debate, unfortunately. Nevertheless, Members of the Committee, who would like to thank them for their patience on this occasion, have reviewed all the amendments. We have adopted two amendments: one is the amendment of the Italian and Hungarian National Community Parliamentary Group to increase the co-financing of RTV programmes for nationalities communities of 25 million 153 thousand dollars and the coalition amendment for the new budgetary user of the Office of the Republic of Slovenia to coordinate and monitor the implementation of the 188 million-dollar development strategy of Slovenia. The other amendments were not accepted by the Committee. We also propose that the 2006 budget, which we supported for 2006 should also be considered and adopted, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u227	Thank you for the supplementary report. My friend Squeakle, a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u228	Procedurally, President. Of course, I would like to ask that the gentleman who has just reported where the report of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, which I am reviewing, says what he said. Otherwise, I would suggest that you, however, warn the presidents of the labour force that they are obliged to tell what the report says when they report on the work of their work. However, if Mr Starman already has this trauma with me, he should use the judgments to discuss Members and Members of the individual amendments. Procedurally, if you warn him that next time he is president of the home working body, he should talk about the report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u229	Thank you for your warning. I believe that your admonition to the chairman of the committee and to all other presidents of the home work bodies, that whenever they submit a report on the mother's work on their working body, they submit this report without a personal note. The National Assembly, however, is moving on to a presentation of the views of the parliamentary groups. First of all, I invite Mr Josip Bajc to present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u230	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, nice afternoon. I hope that, despite the fact that we are meeting today at the 13th extraordinary meeting, and that is nothing negative, it will mean more positively. Today, as we say, the 13th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly discusses the draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2006, 2007 and the draft law on the implementation of the budget for those years. Since this is a budget package, I will give the opinion of the Slovenian People's Party's Group to both budgets at the same time. In each budget formulation, of course, there is a lot of desire, a lot of expectations, a lot of hope, a lot of resources in each area. But the problem is that resources on the income side are getting a lot smaller than our expectations, such as our wishes and aspirations, were and are. However, when preparing and adopting the budget for the next two years, in particular for 2006, it is necessary to take into account Slovenia's specific objectives in the area of euro takeover. In our opinion, the budgets are prepared to enable Slovenia to meet the convergence or maastricht criteria. This is, of course, an important objective because we expect a number of effects from the introduction of the euro, especially the positive effects on the work and functioning of our country. Furthermore, meeting the convergence criteria ensures greater economic stability and has positive effects on Slovenia's development in all areas. With both proposed budgets or individual items, we could speak for a very long time, even as long as we have reported the time of debate, for more than 9 hours. Almost certainly each of the Members and Members of this National Assembly has certain comments on the proposed budgets, certain suggestions, certain different possible solutions, but we believe in the Slovenian People's Party's Group that draft budgets are good compromises between our country's wishes and financial possibilities, taking into account all the factors that need to be taken into account in order to achieve the final objective of the Republic of Slovenia, as I have already mentioned, including the euro. In order not to repeat yourself because, when you represent the views of individual parliamentary groups and in the debate, on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party, I would like to highlight only two areas which we consider to be one of the most important areas in the proposed budgets. First of all, we welcome the increase in funds for local self-government in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. The most increasing resources will be allocated to financing regional infrastructure, regional development projects, restructuring of the Sava region and some other programmes. The Slovenian People's Party is aware of the importance of local self-government and has actively participated in its development all the time. Although there has been considerable progress in recent years, the Slovenian party estimates that the area of local self-government needs to be reformed and upgraded, as we estimate that the reform of local self-government and its upgrades are taking place too slowly. The increased autonomy of local self-government can also be achieved through reform of local communities or municipalities. The budgets currently under discussion set out the fundamentals or allow for these reforms to be made financially as a result of the financial decentralisation of the country. In our opinion and firm belief, however, it will be possible to achieve some developmental competitive advantage that can crucially contribute to the faster development of our country and to the greater well-being of all citizens. In order to actually achieve a reduction in regional development differences, more financial resources or greater financial incentives should be directed towards development retarded areas, as otherwise development differences do not decrease, as has been the case so far, but even increase. With the proposed increase in resources to local communities, the budget also follows the objective set by us in the Slovenian People's Party, namely to increase the financial autonomy of local communities in order to be able to carry out specific tasks and in particular development tasks, and at least 20% to increase the level of funds for municipalities, given the current situation as soon as possible. Another important area I would like to highlight or mention is transport connections or transport infrastructure. In the Slovenian People's Party, we are working to improve the accessibility of individual regions with the aim of increasing the distribution of economic options for development and improving the accessibility of border areas and the links between those areas that are not yet adequately connected to the main European roads or corridors, we can also say motorways. We therefore welcome the proposed increase in resources for the maintenance and construction of state roads. Those places that do not have direct access to motorways will thus have greater opportunities for better and better road connections, which are an important condition for the development of individual regions or for the equitable or equitable development of all areas of our young country. As we are aware, the 2007 budget is largely dependent on the adoption of the European Union's financial perspective. This is particularly up to date after the last British compromise proposal, which is intended to be unfavourable for the new members of the European Union, including Slovenia. I hope and expect in the Slovenian People's Party that the talks held by the Minister of Finance and carried out by the Prime Minister will produce the fruits that will correct this unfortunate proposal and that Slovenia will also be a net financial recipient in the new financial perspective. In our view, however, the realisation of European funds in Slovenia is still too small. We believe that the share of European funds will increase and that the Slovenian Government will also help with appropriate measures through the implementation of the 2006 budget as well as the 2007 budget. Members of the Slovenian People's Party will support the two proposed budgets for 2006 and 2007.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u231	Thank you, Mr. Bajc. Mr Sašo Peče will speak on behalf of the Slovenian National Party Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u232	Your Honors are here! I ask that the criticism that I will express through the presentation of the position of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group, in particular government representatives, should be taken in good faith in the interests of public finances. We are assessing if I can make a general assessment that the budget in this point is in front of us, i.e. the 2006 updated draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia, which I have heard a day or two ago that the Prime Minister said that this is the first budget of the new government, I believe this budget does not show long-term concern for the situation and the spirit of public finances within our country. I would also like to point out, in the context of the opening position, that either by this or this budget meeting and by this budgetary act we will set aside public finances for as many periods as possible and that, unfortunately, if they are adopted, we will also give financial support to the tax and economic reforms announced by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for the year 2006 and 2007 respectively. And the emphasis on my words was on "sorry." However, allow me to extend the introduction a little bit and give a basic assessment of the public finances shown in the draft supplementary draft budget, namely, if we come out of 2005, that is, in the years ahead, we can say with certainty that the work of the existing government and the work of the Ministry of Finance have passed or gone in terms of and under the tactics of additional indebtedness. According to our assessment, the volume of total funding or total debt generally exceeded 400 billion Slovenian tolars, which can be said to be based on the calculation of the debt, taking into account all three basic components, as regards the excess of expenditure on the balance sheet income, taking into account the second component, the excess of revenue in the financial claims and investments account, and taking into account the repayment of the sovereign debt and all deductions, i.e. the changed state of funds and the repayment of principals in the title or leased for the basic development programmes, we can safely state the following statement. In both cases, i.e. surpluses, deficits occur in a situation that cannot be proud of the manager of public finances. As we can see, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia uses the 2005 budget as the basis for 2006 and we can see that the excess of revenue expenditure is what we can say in a simple jargon that the government can't realize or is a zero reality, which means it can't monitor the revenue coming and coordinate with it. The same system form takes place in another form or in another system, a surplus of expenditure on remuneration, which, in a form other than in the second act, i.e. an account of financial claims and investments, is to be confirmed by the words of the first system. According to the Slovenian National Party's assessment, all three reasons for the occurrence of additional indebtedness or funding: For the first time, as I said, expenditure on revenue, secondly, expenditure on remuneration and repayment of debt, nowhere in the draft budget for 2006 and not for 2007, does the guidelines indicate that these three reasons would not be repeated in the future fiscal picture within our country. In the National Party, we expected at least so much responsibility over the management of public finances that the Ministry or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia would give full attention and measures to avoid over-expenditure or over-income, on the one hand. On the other hand, that the expenditure would not be higher than the remuneration and that it would obtain, as a third argument or as a third picture, a system of public debt repayment. Regrettably, none of the proposals in the 2006 and 2007 supplementary drafts of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia state that, on behalf of the parliamentary group, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is not prepared for the public finances tasks and, above all, for the reduction of public debt or the correct work with public finances. According to our assessment, this kind of work, where in the basic public financial acts that we are adopting at this meeting of the National Assembly, indicates that our country in the field of public finances has come into the picture that we can now call the beginning of a simple deficit spiral, which unfortunately will push us increasingly deeper each year into a shift in expenditure over revenue, an ever-increasing gap of expenditure over revenue and an unfinished story of public debt repayment. According to our assessment, if the Government of the Republic of Slovenia wanted to approach public finances in an corrective manner, it could for the first time this year prevent a negative inherited financial scheme of the former governments and indicate a more successful solution. For the first time, I stress because of what I said at the outset, that I heard days ago that this is a public financial act, that is, a budget - this is what the Prime Minister, Mr Janša - said, the first budget of the new government. And it is already seen through this budget that there is no long-term public finance policy, that there is no long-term pursuit of the objective of balanced public finances, and not least that there is no long-term plan or objective to reduce public debt. Once again, according to the Slovenian National Party's assessment, it would be best, however, that all the public financial acts we meet at this meeting and are in the final stage of adoption contain solutions for all three negative views or structures that cause negativeness, in particular the long-term negative nature of public finances. Allow me to underline in support of my words that the structure of indebtedness is very interesting. Whoever has looked through the computer or apologized, through the data, can clearly see that the National Assembly is not equipped with information on the structure of indebtedness, nor is it - which is on the one hand much more worrying - with an increasing deficit in the structure of gross social product, taking into account the implementation at the end of 2005. The debt of the state sector will, I stress, be more than 30% of GDP. According to our assessment, these figures point to a very strange picture within the Ministry of Finance or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which is the basis of the fears of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, in particular, that it is not in any public financial act that the law on the implementation of the budget, or any other, should indicate any of the real measures, how to reduce any of the negative images that are evident through the laws, proposals for laws that have come or come before this Parliament. I therefore stress that if we look at the work of public finances management, we can say with certainty that at least to a good degree or, to say the least, it is irresponsible. Based on the current situation, which is evident in today's budgets for 2006 and 2007, we can conclude that the existing government or the existing department has taken into account the bad work of the past government and has tried exclusively to fill public finances or budget through so-called tax revenues. They chose the path that was in Slovenia, unfortunately, at home for ten and a few years, the simplest path, the path that anyone who doesn't seem worthy to devote even five minutes to the state of public finances in our country can choose. The fact is that the easiest thing for any government is, and each such government has a common denominator, a partially incompetent government or government, which cannot collect the revenue of the budget in any other way than taxation, an ever-increasing and ever-increasing taxation of citizens and citizens. Of course, the tax on such a government, which of course we oppose in the Slovenian National Party, is the easiest form of implementation or budgeting or public finances. The fact is that if someone avoids tax, whether in a natural or legal person, he will be subject to sanctions, and this becomes automatic. Unfortunately, such a recipe or the concept of public finances, however much you prefer, inherited and accepted, is sad, from the past government. While they're building on the so-called tax revenues they're making, and I've been thinking about this speech for a few years now, because we've always been stressing it, we've once even been sneered by the opposition back then, but today's government, of course, the non-tax revenues don't even take up 7% of everything. In the context of recent revenues, however, as an instrument that should achieve a strong over 10% of budget revenue, the Ministry of Finance or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia reminds us of resources that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not or does not know how to use for the benefit of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. It was, I think, 2000 – five years ago when the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group first alerted the government, if necessary, to the umbrella law on concessions. As we probably know, concession activities are in the exclusive domain either of the countries or of the governments of the Republic of Slovenia. In the following year 2001 we submitted a proposal for a roofed concession law for coordination to the government, because we then came to the practice that if the laws were signed by the members of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group, only they were not adopted. Of course, the then government did not even answer that question. But what's the result? In order not to leave everything behind in 2001, we discussed the need for this law at the plenary session of the National Assembly and at the meetings of the national working bodies and interested workers in the discussions that accompanied public finances in our country. So the need, the conduct shouldn't be new under this law. But if we look at the so-called revenue side of the 2006 budget of the Republic of Slovenia, we see an interesting, but unfortunately the already used situation, so that concession revenue in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia is actually, in fact, not at all, and according to our assessment, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is missing a good part. When we pointed out this anomaly in the past, it was the answer, yes, the local communities can afford it because they adopt the rules of the game, the ratio of concessionaires and the concessionaires and the compensation for the use of the concession. Here. And if local communities are able to do so, why does the Government of the Republic of Slovenia not have the capacity to propose to the National Assembly a bill on concessions? So, according to our assessment, a more serious approach in any way would require, before the Prime Minister gives his own thanks for the quality and first budget of the new government, at least to add those items that would not be exclusively built in all their size on the shoulders of citizens and citizens. In the future, I would also like to touch upon our assessment of the lost opportunities of so-called non-tax resources, which should come from public companies or all those companies whose ownership is in a certain form owned by the State. As we can see, and if we look at the general part of the budget, or the balance of revenue and expenditure, we see that income from this title is also walking here. In the framework of the parliamentary group, we are convinced that such walking or the lack of such tax revenue is solely due to the double possibility of legal structure or company registration. I believe that, especially in a few years' time, the Members and Members of Parliament will be tired of listening to this content, which we have been presenting within the Slovenian National Party for years, but I hope that this tiredness of yours will encourage the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to correct under Slovenian legislation these shortcomings, which, once again, reflect mainly on the burdens of citizens and citizens. Because we do not have this legislation because the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is not prepared to make this legislation, it is looking for the government as the simplest compensation for the loss of such tax or budgetary revenues and the increasing volume of new taxes. So, I remained under the possibility or legal admissibility of registering the same company under the capital company or under the company law or the law on public companies, while each of these laws sets a different purpose for the company. The Company Act provides, for example, for the capital company d.d., that the principal purpose of such a company is to generate profits. The Law on Public Economics speaks in its introductory provisions that the purpose of public undertakings is to ensure public interest. And since we know that the goal or pursuit of the goal of creating profits and seeking or providing a public interest is stammering among themselves, these companies also show the same proportion of surpluses or losses. And who is deprived? The country is deprived, citizens and citizens are deprived of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, because we are losing a good part of the budget revenue here in the Republic of Slovenia. Well, further, if I have now described the unfortunately negative legacy and acceptance of this legacy by the new government and inherited from the work of the previous government, I would also like to touch on some, perhaps even new components of negativity or a negative approach to public finances, which began to be botched - I have deliberately used this term - in the existing draft budgets for 2006 and 2007, this is an uncontrolled debt by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I ask you, Members and Members, when you have a moment of time or if you are to entrust your colleagues in the professional services to check the number of bonds issued only in the previous year. According to my assessment, this type of work, as has been done recently within the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, is completely unsupervised. I do not argue that the Ministry of Finance should come to the National Assembly for a green light after such debt in the form of bonds, but that it would make sense that the issue of bonds is transparent and, in particular, not to the detriment of future harm, citizens and citizens. Well, according to the Slovenian National Party, the draft budget is not good or the updated draft budget for 2006 is not good. We tried to fix it with a few amendments. But, yes, amendments can only be made or modified by individual amounts on individual accounts. However, structurally speaking, we cannot influence the budget, which is why, of course, we regret that the structural change of the budget needs to be part of the preparation and planning phase of the budget lines. To this end, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia was not prepared to invite the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group to participate and, in my conduct, the other two opposition parties, and this is the third element of negativity; that is to say, that the same public finances management policy as the previous government, namely, the government of the Liberal Democracy and then the United List of Social Democrats, continues to be involved in this scheme or in this picture. As we say, the Members of the Slovenian National Party will defend and present to you the additions that we have written and that we assess that everyone in their area is essential for the adoption and recovery of the area that we are fixing at a cost. I believe that Members and Members, insofar as you have so much power in your hands, will either press the "for" button independently of the position of the groups of Members or independently of the position of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and support the amendments of the Slovenian National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u233	Thank you, Mr. Pechet. Mr Willi Rezman will present the position of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u234	Thank you very much. Greetings to everyone who's still in the hall. If a person tried to absorb some of the critical thoughts addressed to both budgets, they could also do so by saying, "Look out, run away, the government is coming!" But perhaps it is not quite so, we will see later, when we are announced to have an approximately 20-hour debate on all budgetary topics in depth, I suppose, and seriously consider whether or not all the criticisms will hold up. In any case, we belong to the DeSUS Group of Members, that it will not be wrong if we contribute our vote to the adoption of the budgets, on the fact that we also invite us to share our concerns, our proposals on what is yet to happen today, tomorrow and Monday when we discuss it. I am sure that this budget has a weakness, I believe that the proponents are aware of this, that they are not particularly hiding it, and that it is possible to group these weaknesses into at least three groups: the structure of the budget, the development capacity envisaged by the budget, and the social implications which are also of course very important. In the DeSUS Group, we were in favour of a number of corrections, and we feel that it is possible to do so now, in a metaphorical way, to sacrifice a tank for, say, building a home for the elderly or some sort of protective work centre or some kind of investment or some kind of subsidy, a regression for, I don't know, either a lunch for the students or for transportation for the students. So we would not object if enough Members and Members decided to vote on such an amendment. Unfortunately, I must conclude that there was no excessive interest in coordination between those who made proposals for amendments, at least we did not detect them, so that even to that famous mega amendment that might have calmed some spirits, there was no compromise on the table, just to be accepted. In this brief presentation of the marathon debate, we will limit ourselves not so much to philosophy or to strategic orientations - I suppose others will talk about this - more to some of the amendments that we still support. I voted on my own working body for a number of amendments, not looking at the kinds they came from. I believe that the amendments that have been supported by me from all parties and minorities have been mediated. Therefore, we do not exclude anyone because of the political definition. For example, we have supported and will be the logical consequence of the decision to set up a new government service that cannot operate in a financial space. We will support - I hope that in a sufficient number - the amendment which our minorities consider to be justified and needed support, which we will initially vote on; and we will support, at least, the amendment, which provides that some 100 million will be earmarked to promote the development of the small economy, which is not a particularly large amount in our budget. We will also support hydromeliorations, in particular where the proponents have convinced us that the consequences of this amendment's rejection will be a multiple of the damage that will occur, many times because they propose to invest in melioration. We will thus support the invisible amount that goes in support of the defence against the tide and which could certainly contribute to a calmer view of the cloud when a hailstorm threatens us. We will also support those proposals that go in the direction of supporting energy efficiency efforts, especially if we know what our energy balance is, especially if we know what our problems are with energy supply, and we will also support all that will mean investing in renewable energy sources. The National Council for the Protection of the Environment is in operation in our house, and the parental committee did not give him the attention or affection needed to obtain a few million tolars of additional resources for its work. We will support this world for environmental protection. We will also support efforts to establish and develop the natural parks listed in the amendment and envisaged in the programme at a slightly faster pace than previously envisaged. In any way, we will support the amendment, which speaks of the need to provide emergency premises for the Pluž security and work centre in Maribor. We will also support those amendments that speak of a few more resources being invested in education infrastructure, whether it is primary or secondary education, and also students and students, we think it is right that a few more resources are intended to repress food and transport. As we support many amendments, we regret that no compromise has been possible before. For those amounts that are in fact marginal, 2 million dollars in our budget would be lost, as if we were pouring water into the sand, and we were not prepared to do anything about it. Therefore, we hope and urge you that for some amendments that are reasonable, which are justified, a sufficient number of Members and Members contribute their 'yes' and we hope that then we will support the budget as proposed to receive satisfaction by being enriched by an adopted amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u235	Thank you, Comrade Rezman. I give the floor to Maria Possonec, representatives of the Hungarian national community. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u236	Thank you for your word. At the outset, let me say that I will support the draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2006 even though this is modest, but nevertheless only makes it possible to survive the institutions of national communities such as schools, kindergartens and cultural institutions. Nevertheless, I would like to say that we have a comment on the way in which the draft budget is being prepared. The drafters of the budget do not give the national community the opportunity to tell which programmes it gives priority to. Nor does the national community have the opportunity to contribute to the provision of material conditions in the institutions in which the co-founder is established. Therefore, we would like to take more account of our proposals in the form of amendments. We expect from the 2006 budget of the Republic of Slovenia that funds will be provided to enable the accelerated construction of the motorway from Maribor to the Hungarian border. It is also intended to provide funds to cover social transfers, as it is difficult for local communities that face a high level of unemployment to cope with social benefits themselves. I therefore believe that we should provide funds in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia in this regard. The budget should be developed in order to create opportunities for the creation of new jobs and for more coherent regional development. Thus our province would also have the opportunity to develop and there would be no further Siberia Slovenia. Our people and our youth have the right to live a decent life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u237	Thank you. Here comes a presentation of the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Ambassador Boyan Starman, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u238	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! The Slovenian Democratic Party will, of course, support the 2006 draft budget. We believe that this is a good, optimal compromise, possible at the moment, and covers some of the basic orientations of our government and our coalition treaties; it is true to improve the conditions of management. I think that this is one of the key tasks we need to achieve, and thus also allow for faster economic growth and an increase in our social product. In this budget we have foreseen some substantial changes, which unfortunately are not enough, but already suggest improvements in this direction. In particular, a 20% tax reduction on paid wages will allow businesses to make additional resources that they can use primarily for development and thus to create new jobs. One of the important things we can see in this budget is that we are also aware that the extent of our public spending is too large and that it will need to be gradually reduced. The numbers are really big, but the trend is still correct. The budget proposal provides for 1,857 billion tolls of expenditure, 26.36% of gross domestic product or half a percentage point less than estimated for 2005. The deficit, estimated at 1.756 billion dollars, will also be 1.41 and will be within all the criteria we are pursuing. Our public spending is not just a budget. I'd like to make a quick mention here, as I always say, of the other three cash registers. 444 billion is foreseen for health care, which is about 6.10% of gross domestic product; 926 billion is a pension institution or 13.1% of gross domestic product; 358 billion is the budget of our third treasury, municipal treasury, which is about 5.10% of the budget. This brings us all to 3.151 billion planned consumption or 44.76% of gross domestic product, which is less than anticipated for 2005, when 45.56% is foreseen. That is how I think this trend is true and will have to continue to be pursued, but even more courageous. The 146 amendments that we have considered have mainly included proposals to increase the items on individual budget users. It is true that everyone cannot get everything in every budget, but we have in some way addressed the harmonised draft budget among government budget users and we are confident that it takes into account all the legal obligations arising from the implementation of the budget and that, as planned, they will also be realized. Last but not least, we are convinced of this by a fairly solid revenue and expenditure side and by the smooth progress of the implementation of the budget in 2005. And since we have already discussed in this composition the proposal for a rebalancing, a huge criticism, there have been a lot of amendments and it seems that the world will collapse if we support the proposal for a rebalancing as presented by the government. Now it appears that the rebalancing assessments were quite accurate in the proposal for a rebalancing, and this year it is possible that one rare year, when all needs are normally financed by the end of the year, not as usual, that by the end of the year virtually all investments have been stopped and money is provided for those statutory tasks or salaries and redistributed. And so we have always talked about the developmental orientation of the budget, and yet, at the end of the day, they were significantly lower than we planned. If we look at this chapter directly, one part of this may be involved in investments and investment transfers. This budget proposes or plans 106 billion tolls of investment expenditure. This is slightly more than 36% more than is estimated for 2005, but it is still being estimated. In 2004, this was a realisation of 49 billion tolars, which is said to be quite a leap on this item. If I mention investment transfers. Here we planned a little less than we estimate the realization of this year 2005 - 89 billion tolars are foreseen, still well above 67 billion and half as implemented in 2004. I hope that this year these plans will be fully implemented and that the funds for investment will also be spent properly and will also ensure the further development of individual activities. I would also mention the European Union's resources, which, in fact, are very difficult to draw, have taken quite a few steps to improve this pumping and that the result of the income difference between revenue and expenditure would actually be achieved as planned in the budget. In 2005, we know that we have written in the balance sheet that we will realise 113 billion tolars of revenue and 75 billion and 73 billion expenditure on this European work. For 2006, 106 and 107 billion tolls of revenue and 75 billion tolls of European cash registers are planned. I hope that all other things will be prepared for such a stage, that this difference, or that this plus, which we have after the current rules or budgets of the European Union, will also be realized and exploited because it affects our investment activity. We had a lot of, maybe a lot of amendments we could support, but the point is that we came up with, so that we wouldn't break the balance, or this year, we don't have a situation that shows us that on the items where we wanted to scale up with the amendments, we want to raise funds to deal with problems or funding shortages anywhere. Somewhere, at least I personally felt that the items that the ministries had drawn were large enough and that too many transfers would worsen the quality of the budget, would have had budgetary consumers who would have too much money and could not spend it or could have witnessed, on the other hand, the failure or failure to pay certain legal obligations that the government has. Therefore, the Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party will support this proposal. Two amendments were also adopted on the committee, as I said. However, further discussion will show that we are also proposing to the National Assembly that this budget be endorsed. [[...]] I would also like to say that the debates and the procedure for adopting the budget under the Public Finance Act and the procedural procedure required are, I think, some adjustments will have to be made. We must be aware that the following procedures, as provided for in the Rules of Procedure, are in such a way that we have had impossible situations. The amendments were tabled by Saturday evening, the expert services prepared a comprehensive review on Sunday, and on Monday there was a meeting which had to be concluded or had to be delivered to the budgets on the same day until midnight, otherwise these draft budgets could not be considered today. Perhaps we should, in order to be able to carry out even more quality treatments and to come up with good proposals and additional changes to what we can make. Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party will, of course, support the budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u239	Thank you. We are moving to the position of the parliamentary club. Please, Comrade Bevk. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u240	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. At the beginning of this agenda item, I had a procedural question and at that time I received an answer from the Head of the National Assembly, or a letter sent to the National Assembly by the responsible editor of the information programme, saying: "In accordance with the agreement between RTV Slovenia and the National Assembly, TV Slovenia will today transmit directly to the second programme the extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly on the budget, the presentation of the government representative and the position of representatives of all seven parliamentary groups. However, as there has been a change in the agenda, the agreed part of the budget debate will be fully broadcast in the video at 21.15 on TV Slovenia's second programme." For this reason, I would like to know who, on behalf of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, spoke to RTV Slovenia about the transfer of today's session at the time of the 2006 State Budget. For it has been agreed, as you have seen from this quote, that television will transmit only the first part of this agenda item and the cameras will be shut down as soon as we begin the treatment of the 250 opposition amendments to the 2006 and 2007 budget. I think it would be right for viewers and viewers to see for themselves how the coalition will define up to these 250 amendments, and in view of the debate on the working body, it will unrelentingly reject them. I also think that this agreement between the leadership of the National Assembly and RTV Slovenia is not in accordance with the law on RTV Slovenia, which speaks of the third parliamentary channel, and also that the meetings of the National Assembly will be carried over from the beginning to the end. I think that this decision has deprived the leadership of the National Assembly of the opposition in particular, as citizens and citizens will not be able to directly monitor the discussion of about 250 opposition amendments. Please answer this procedural question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u241	My answer will be what you probably expect. I will not answer this procedural or any other question raised to you and will no longer allow such interruptions to the debate on public finances. As I said at the outset, I think that the debate on public finances is much more important than the issue of television broadcasting. Therefore, we will now continue to present the views of the groups of Members. I give the word "magic." Milan M. Cviklu to present the position of the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u242	Mr President, Members and Members, absent Prime Minister, Minister of Finance and Ministers, Madam Secretary of State and ladies Secretary of State and other guests! Allow me to say first, on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club, that we will not support the draft budgets and supplementary draft budgets for 2006 and 2007; not because they reflect the wrong policy of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. After the government has decided, first of all, that it will share heavily, in particular with its own and the richest, and once we have adopted a poor balance in the National Assembly, the 2005 budget, the rebalancing which has mainly divided the additional revenues, we now have the final stage of addressing the proposals of the 2006 and 2007 state budgets, which are a major disappointment. According to the content, they are in total contradiction to the positions that Mr Andrej Bajuk, Minister of Finance, and Mr President Janez Janša, at least when they were opposition Members, defended in this Chamber. However, it is the first budgets of the current government, so they reflect the government's approach to Slovenia's economic, social and development policies, so allow some views. These budgets, the 2005 rebalancing, proposals 2006 and 2007 have three types of problems. The first type of problem is that these budgets and the acts adopted will greatly increase the country's indebtedness, because budgets do not include the coverage of all legal obligations, but strengthen the extra-budgetary financing of a type of State activity. As will be presented below - and a lot of time will still be today - for between 553 and 708.6 billion additional debt options. Another time. These budgets, adopted by tax laws, increase the distribution of Slovenian society, while at the same time the budgets do not provide adequate funds for social transfers, nor for an active employment policy, which would prevent the negative effects that are all visible in Slovenia due to the deterioration of the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy after taking over the conditions for entry into the euro. And the third type of problem is that the government has poorly distributed limited resources, as the majority of the additional funds have been allocated to the work of the repressive authorities, are not being allocated to development. Otherwise, investments on state roads have increased slightly, but this is only on the basis of the responsibility for the construction of motorways and the reconstruction of railways. While the budgets have several items with large indices, this is largely linked to European funds and will not be available in 2006 and 2007. The first type of problem is the indebtedness of Slovenia and the increase of the public financial deficit. The proposed budgets allow this and therefore increase the burden on taxpayers. Debt increases in two ways. Firstly, it was proposed first in the rebalancing phase, then in proposals 2006 and 2007 the volume of funding for motorway construction was reduced. And instead of the usual 36 billion transfers from the state budget to Dars, we now have a few billion in total. Mr Bozič said on his competent working body, when we discussed the analysis of this, that Dars would have to charge an additional billion euros or 240 billion tolars at the beginning of 2006 alone. Since Dars has the need for additional indebtedness, a billion euro of additional indebtedness to gentlemen, for the first time in history in the Republic of Slovenia, because he will have to make an additional debt, he will therefore have to pay an additional 75 billion interest at the time of reaching the loans, as if the funding from the budget were normal. Another time. The possibility of indebtedness of Slovenian municipalities is greatly increased. And instead of adding resources to the municipalities through the budget by changing the resources of the municipalities, we sent the municipalities to the financial market. The analysis is known that, first of all, this will increase by 33 billion to increase the chance of municipalities in debt by raising their normal debt from 10% to 20% of their income. However, since municipalities can be responsible for the co-financing of European projects for an additional 3% of income, 3% being the assets of the resources hired, depending on the length of resources may be an additional debt of up to 300 billion. The municipalities will undoubtedly be ahead of the next local elections of one of the biggest demanders for sources in Slovenia. When you do this, you cannot close the 2006 and 2007 state budget without already announced tax changes. For 2007, the value added tax will have to be increased and this means that it will increase at the time when we take over the euro, which will significantly reduce the additional standard of living while, of course, we will have a VAT increase, which will undoubtedly reduce Slovenia's tax competitiveness. In doing so, it is of particular concern that it is not really clear exactly how this will be done, since, of course, the Minister of Finance is talking about raising VAT and then Mr Janša denies it immediately. However, since we adopted in the National Assembly a few weeks ago an additional tax relief tax on income, which was in fact the same as in substance in 2004, the assessment of income from corporate income tax is inflated by at least about 40 billion at the annual level. Together, these two means that the government is creating a government deficit of at least 110 billion tolars in excess of the budgets. Therefore, the borrowing and non-complying of legal obligations with expenditure is the first feature of this budget. The second is, of course, that tax laws, including one that we have confirmed today, reflect a different approach of this government tax policy to various social groups. On the one hand, additional tax reliefs for the richest are being imposed through tax changes, which should be the result of a change in the taxation of capital gains and also of denationalisation; on the other hand, these indices of social transfers were intended to be introduced, and only because of the SLS and DeSUS, of course, this was not feasible. But let's see how the government closed this hole caused by the opposition of the SLS and DeSUS to the impossibility of de-indexing social transfers. Holes were 7 billion, two billion were transferred to the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, and 3 billion will have to increase the transfer from KAD from the sale of property to the pension fund and 2 billion will have to be less investment in health facilities in the Health Insurance Institute programme. So we have a government that on the one hand gives the richest tax reliefs, and on the other hand takes those who are most socially disadvantaged because the budget does not provide sufficient funds for social transfers and active employment policies. However, in 2007 and 2008, the government is additionally taxing interest by abolishing the tax threshold on interest. In some ways, the third group of problems is linked to substantive concerns about the structure of government budget expenditure. In doing so, I cannot help but say something about the problem of reducing the efficiency of European funds. It is now known that in 2004 and 2005, we will not be able to absorb the announced 107 billion tolars for 2005. However, the 2006 and 2007 budget provides for an additional 101 billion and then 97 billion revenue from European funds, and this only means that it is fictitious for a type of expenditure, especially in the field of environment, regional policy and so on, even for the economy, otherwise some European funds will be allocated, but this will not be the case in 2006 and 2007. This will, if possible, be achieved later in 2007, 2008, 2009. That is why we say that in this part of the budget is unrealistic and, in fact, the Minister of Finance has taken the other ministers by his nose because he has promised them something they will not see in 2006 and 2007. When we bring these figures together and look at them at global level, then we see that in 2006 we will not have a budget deficit of 101 billion or 1.4%, but for 2006, due to the loss of revenue on the basis of the new benefits in the adopted law on corporate income tax of 40 billion, due to Dars' debt, the additional indebtedness of the municipalities and the continuation by the Minister of Finance at a time when the opposition Member, the critical financing of the needs of the fundamental development programmes of the Slovenian Armed Forces, was put under pressure because of the gaps created in the Court and Kad, also because of Mercator's mission, to increase the public financial deficit through a 3% point. In 2007, the story is repeated, the only difference is to add at least an urgent increase in value added tax at a higher rate or 0.5 at a lower rate. Of course, it is possible, as some say, to go into different stories, stories of a single tax rate. However, at a single tax rate, not only will there be a loss of income of around 40 billion because the richest ones will be burdened, but there is not enough resources for social transfers during the expenditure of the state budget if what DeSUS says is to be implemented, what the unions say is what people say in demonstrations, that social transfers should, of course, be ensured if a single tax rate is actually introduced. That is why we also have a serious problem in 2007 regardless of what kind of tax reform reform the reformists will invent, raising the public financial deficit over 3% of GDP. However, the debate on this in the home working body, when we first considered the draft budget, went to waste. Together, we have prepared over 250 amendments worth a few ten billion to try to correct the main anomalies in the state budget structure, to strengthen important development priorities, to support technological development, to support science programmes, which, although some resources are allocated to the state budget, are being spent twice as much on defence and home affairs. We have proposed additional amendments to increase the competitiveness of the Slovenian industry because the economic sector is one of the poorest in growth. We have proposed an increase in money to build highways, state roads, but you did not support us. It is true that agricultural subsidies are being increased in the state budget, but only because of the previous commitment to increase domestic subsidies from 90 to 95%, but not enough money is being given for rural development or money is being made in the form of promises that will not be implemented in 2006 but much later than in 2007. As I said recently, nothing helps to talk about regional policy unless the people of Osilnica are assured, with the support of the amendment we have proposed, of the construction of the last section of the road that this part of Slovenia would connect to the centre. Nothing helps to write laws, uniform software documents if such an amendment cannot be supported. Nothing helps our traveling government to travel across the upper Meži valley and to explain the third development axis if Members of the ruling coalition are unable to support an amendment that would start for people who might not be able to wait for a third development axis to solve problems related to the removal of the consequences of lead and zinc mining in this valley. We therefore say that the proposed state budgets for 2006 and 2007 are very problematic. They are weak in the part where they allow additional indebtedness and increase the burden on individual groups of taxpayers. They represent a step backwards on tax changes because they introduce social dispersion and are unrealistic in the work where European funds are being drawn up. Since there is a serious confusion on the tax side at the same time, another tax system will be set up in 2006 and, given the appointment of the new State Secretary, obviously a third party, we will see in the implementation of the 2006 and 2007 budgets some policy option between parts and governments. The policy, which was crucially defined first by the coalition contract and then, through the implementation of the coalition contract, it is substantively disintegrating the company of consent in Slovenia and in its own way also Americanising it. In order to try to correct these errors of the 2006 and 2007 state budget, a series of amendments have been drawn up in all years and this year as well. It is assumed that 90 Members and Members from all over Slovenia know more about the problems of individual regions than ministers, ministers, secretaries of state do. Therefore, 250 amendments were proposed. Normally, without being particularly strange to anyone, such amendments were 400 at the annual level, now 250 in two years, but, therefore, I would like to conclude my thinking, one particular feature of this year's budget is the adoption of this state budget. In all past years, we have had amendments from Members of Parliament and from the House of State, and this year we have only amendments from Members and Members of the opposition. The only amendment proposed by the ruling coalition was, of course, adopted, was the amendment to devote as much as 300 million dollars to the work of the new government service, which will monitor reforms that are not yet ready. And where does it come from? It is not taken from savings at the Ministry of Finance, the government service for regional policy and local self-government or at the services whose work this minister will be working. No, it's taken from damages based on court decisions. You have rejected all the other amendments, and you have not prepared any amendments yourself. And for the first time in the history of Slovenia are amendments and the debate on the state budget was not actually held in this Chamber, but in Gregorčič, where you were introduced one night and said: "This is the budget for 2006, 2007." But you, Members of the ruling coalition, are turning you into a voting machine that today must reject good amendments. We regret this and will not support the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u243	Thank you. We continue to present the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Socialist Group of Members is next. Ambassador Ferry Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u244	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives and representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Although the 2006 and 2007 budgets under the two-year budget system are of a kind of twin. They have something in common, but they also have differences. They share the fact that these budgets are extremely important for the central years of this mandate, because this year is over and the last year will be a pre-election year. These two budgets are not only the biggest test for the current government and its coalition, but as a result also a test for the state of Slovenia. It is therefore the responsibility of the ruling coalition and should also be of interest to enable the opposition to participate constructively in the preparation and adoption of the budget. Unfortunately, the behaviour of the government and the coalition has not been so far, and I wonder if you are aware of the responsibility you are taking with such conduct. There is also an important difference between these budgets. The 2006 budget is the last budget in the tolars, which means a farewell to the current, young and successful national currency - this is good and important when we move on to the euro and the 2007 budget will be prepared in the European Union's common currency, but of course this does not only mean a technical and symbolic change in currency, but it also makes a big difference in view of the fact that 2007 will be the first year of the new financial perspective, which is full of uncertainty and ignorance. The truth about the love of all the details at this time cannot be predicted or influenced. However, this uncertainty is important, and unfortunately all the more so than optimistic assessments and forecasts, as much as possible in the proposals for both budgets, especially in the 2007 budget. In addition to the assessments and negotiations so far on the new financial perspective, the last, most recent British proposal forces us to do so, and the question is whether this will be adopted. Regardless of the various views of the coalition and the opposition, which is legitimate, better cooperation would be essential in this uncertain situation because of the importance of these two budgets. For the opposition, it is also said for Social Democracy, although it would be a line of resistance and for recruitment [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u245	Comrade Horvat, if you'll excuse me, please. Mr Intercession, Head of the Group of Members, I am today the second Vice-President to ask you to calm your Members. I'm obliged to address this request to you. Comrade Franz Kangler, whenever you get in there, you're the only one who can hear you. Please calm down and allow the representative of the Group of Members to express his position. Proceed, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u246	Thank you very much. So it could be easier for us to pick up political points and let things go as they go. This might be party legitimate, but it would not be responsible for citizens and citizens. On the other hand, the government and its coalition in the National Assembly have sufficient majority to accept anything and, as a bulldozer, overrun the opposition. This has also been the case in recent days in the consideration of both draft budgets. If the behaviour of the coalition continues to be the same, it will have to take responsibility for the consequences and, of course, in this case we will not be able to support these two budgets either. Allow me to make a few general comments regarding the mere creation of the budget and its handling. Firstly, the updated draft budget is, according to our assessment - with more cosmetic than substantive corrections - contrary to our expectations, worse than the original proposal. Secondly, the Government does not take sufficient account of the orientations of the country's core strategic documents, including those adopted by it itself, such as the Slovenian Development Strategy, the National Reform Programme for the Lisbon Strategy and finally its own coalition commitments and promises. The government does not take due account of the European Commission's programme priorities for this year, in particular for achieving the Lisbon objectives, increasing employment rates, increased investment in technological development and innovation, improving the business environment, increased funding for education and so on. In an objectively unfavourable situation for the preparation of budgets, it is incomprehensible that the government has neglected the social partnership in the preparation of the budget - for the first time in years, I am talking about the preparation of the budget - although dialogue and agreement with the social partners are generally difficult, it is a condition for successfully overcoming obstacles, particularly in difficult situations, and for achieving the objectives. In my view, it would be useful to take into account the experiences of Scandinavian countries that achieve the best economic results, social stability and sustainable development. These are the States of consensus. In this regard, even in the context of the debate on the reform agenda, we should make greater efforts to reach agreement between the political leaders and the social partners in this country. Although such dialogue is usually exhausting, it has been proven to be the most effective in the most difficult situation at the end. The problems in the enlarged European Union in the absence of a constitutional treaty, the uncertainty and for the European Union and Slovenia are probably an adverse outcome of the negotiations on the new financial perspective, and they are a dramatic reminder that, in key strategic priorities and national interests, we need to rely primarily on our own resources and our own resources, in particular human resources. And this is the subject of this budget. Finally, it is up to us to what extent we will be able to attract and use the resources available to the European Union. Incomprehensible and irresponsible was the absence of representatives of the government or ministries, with the exception of the Minister of Finance and his co-workers and co-workers at the two-day meeting of the home working body which addressed the budget package. Allow me to make a few more concrete comments on the very content of the budget, followed by the majority of the amendments tabled by our Group of Members. In the area of the economy, the proposal still lacks the means to promote growth, competitiveness, to accelerate the development of entrepreneurship and to accelerate the restructuring of the economy. Given the high energy dependence and import dependence, measures for rational use and production of renewable energy, including so-called alternative, environmentally friendly energy sources, should be further accelerated. In the resolution on the national consumer protection programme, the budget is too small to implement this strategy. It is unacceptable and incomprehensible to ignore measures and not have enough resources for an active employment policy. Alarmmanten is the latest information that after a long period of unemployment reduction in Slovenia, according to the latest data, compared October of this year with October of last year, an increase of 1.8%. The big problem is particularly less developed areas where unemployment is much higher and jobs continue to decline and individual categories such as young people, women and others who are permanently unemployed. Ensuring new quality jobs is one of the priorities of our strategy and the Lisbon strategy and a condition for the enforcement of labour market flexibility. It is not possible to provide or talk about the flexibility of the labour market, unless jobs are no longer provided and the necessary jobs are provided so that they can also be forgiven. If anyone understands only forgiveness, then that must be a mistake. There are insufficient resources for technological development and innovation. The data of Umarje show that we are strongly behind the average of the European Union for expenditure for this purpose, not to talk about an even greater standstill for the economically most successful countries. Greater investment to this end is a prerequisite for greater competitiveness, greater added value and so on. The recently adopted tax reliefs are welcome but are not sufficient. The increase in resources for this purpose also calls for a clear failure to deliver large forecasts of an increase in R & D resources in the European budget. In the area of regional development, despite the great words and efforts and promises adopted by measures and laws, there are no visible results of policies of more coherent regional development. At times, differences and centralisation are even increasing. The budget proposal provides for greater resources for local communities, which is particularly good for infrastructure, but this is not enough. More resources are needed to develop entrepreneurship, tourism and rural development through complementary activities. In addition to the chronically poor use of European Union funds, the latest proposal for a new financial perspective does not promise much good. Only a larger number of municipalities and additional resources for development, without additional resources for development, will not ensure coherent development. The supplementary draft budget reduces already small funds for state roads. Increased investment and accelerated construction of transport infrastructure, highways, state roads, railways and airport infrastructure is a prerequisite for faster and more coherent development, for better integration within the country and for better integration with Europe and the world. The geotransport situation of Slovenia is a major strategic advantage and an opportunity that should be used as soon as possible to join the European transport network. The data of Umarja show a very significant impact of exports on gross domestic product growth and should also provide more offensive marketing through the budget to increase exports of goods, services, tourism and attract foreign direct investment. In addition to greater resources, we should improve the organisation and activity within the government, strengthen cooperation with the economy, chambers and other organisations. To this end, further involvement of diplomatic consular representations and other representative networks abroad is needed. In order to increase economic cooperation, international development cooperation, laws, will need to be used more than ever before in this Parliament's procedure. Finally, the condition for greater competitiveness of the economy is also an effective and competitive country, in particular the state administration. The measures taken so far by the government and the draft budget do not provide this only if we take into account the number of employees in the administration and the expenditure for the classical country. A key condition for ensuring effective administration and for reducing costs is the consistent enforcement of the criteria of expertise and actual competence instead of the currently prevailing or frequently used criterion of party ownership. The same or even more so for companies in which the owner or co-owner of the state or state funds is located. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u247	Thank you. We are moving on to the last presentation of the position of the Group of Members of the New Slovenia Group. Ambassador Cyril Testen, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u248	Mr. Chairman! Honourable ministers with fellow Members, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament! I will present the position of the New Slovenia Group of Members - the Christian People's Party to the draft budget for 2006. The 2006 budget is adopted at a time when the Slovenian economy is poorly competitive and according to the Government, the majority of members of the National Assembly and also in almost all reform economists are necessary. Weak competitiveness has come to the fore since Slovenia's entry into the European Union, when we suddenly found it difficult to deal with Europe only with global competition due to poor technological equipment and as a result of low productivity. In the area of agriculture and the food processing industry, we continue to be hit by fragmentation and therefore also by the high entry costs for the food processing industry. Our great problem is also the high wage burden of highly skilled labour, which, on the one hand, has a high labour cost and a low level of employment of highly qualified staff, and on the other hand, this, in our view, also has a large impact on productivity. The starting point for the preparation of the 2006 budget is primarily the strategy for the development of Slovenia, a package of tax and other reforms, which are already partially summarised in the already adopted tax legislation. In order to make a major change, it will be necessary to provide wider social support and progressive introduction through legislative changes in the next budgets on the basis of the proposed reform programme. Finally, it is also important to draw up the 2006 budget and to pursue those objectives that we have agreed as coalition partners. The great and important objective set by this coalition is to meet the Maastricht criteria and take over the euro as a legitimate payment asset 1.1.2007. We believe that this is a good place for us and that this goal will also be achieved if there are no major economic problems in the wider area in 2006. Another important thing is the Schengen southern border, which is very important for the functioning of the economy, and also for the movement of goods and services. We hope that this goal will also be achieved in 2007. In addition to the above-mentioned government and coalitions, there are still some very important objectives to achieve at least 4% of economic growth, the share of the budget in the gross domestic product is expected to fall from 26.6 to 26.3, the budget deficit is not expected to exceed 1.4% of the gross social product, and inflation is expected to be less than 2.5%. According to the updated draft budget, the revenue part of the 2006 budget is $7,000 756 billion and something else, which is 81 billion more or 4.86% more than in 2005. On the revenue side of the budget, it has a significant impact on the lower revenue of 20% of the tax on paid wages, which will have a net effect of minus 18 billion. The liquidity impact will certainly also have a new way of calculating value added tax on paid realisation. The very large and important revenue of the state budget is also the European Union's resources, which will amount to 107 billion and a half in 2006. How effectively we will draw on these funds depends, above all, on our ability and the programmes we have prepared to draw on these funds. Of course, it is very important how effectively we will spend the budget and which programmes the government and the coalition will give priority to in 2006. We will only point out some areas, in our view very important. In the coalition, we are aware that investment in science and technological development is important. Through the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology, the economy and defence, in the 2006 budget, we have substantially increased funds for these purposes to 54.4 billion or 21.5%, which we believe is very large. We are aware, however, that knowledge of the Slovenian economy is crucial and that much more will need to be invested in the future for knowledge. The important change that has taken place in this area is the efforts of the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology to bring science and the economy closer together, which we fully support in New Slovenia. Despite some criticism that there is still insufficient resources for local communities, it must be said that adequate spending for municipalities has increased by 4.5% and that the local community’s development programmes have increased significantly by 7 billion or 67.9% within the local self-government service. Tax legislation is also very beneficial and particularly for less developed areas, where, in addition to the overall 20% tax relief for R & D investment, an additional 30% relief is foreseen for those regions with up to 15% lower GDP than the national average, for those with below 85% of GDP, the so-called regional relief is foreseen even for an additional 40%. In particular, the opposition Members are often critical to the extent of the resources provided for defence in the 2006 budget, which also shows their proposals for amendments, where they are generally taken in defence. Here we would like to warn those who pretend that when we enter NATO we have made a commitment to increase our defence funds to 2% of GDP by 2008. It is also important to know that defence is not only a cost, but that it creates important resources for development within the framework of the defence budget and that the military and NATO are also an opportunity for companies capable of offering their goods and services. The most important thing about defence is that if we need a partner who will be able to help us effectively. We are convinced that effective defence is the key objective that we decided when we entered NATO. The volume of agricultural resources is greatly increasing, from the projected 79.8 billion for 2005 to 92.2 billion in 2006 or by 15.7%. In 2006, subsidies increased from 90 % to 95% of European subsidies. In our Group's view, reform processes in agriculture and the food processing industry are even more necessary than in other segments of the economy, as it is only in the future that we will be able to compete in food production to other EU countries as well as other food producers on the global market. While it is true that agricultural inputs are large in terms of the share of employees and the share of agriculture's contribution to GDP, this is essential because agriculture does not only contribute to food production, but also contributes significantly to the development of other industries, such as tourism, and has a major impact on the environment in which we live. An important and positive step, in our view, has been taken by the government and the coalition in transport policy. While it is true that we are earmarking for the construction of highways from the budget less than in previous years, the motorways will nevertheless be rapidly building with the help of very favourable loans. In our view, it is very important to substantially increase the volume of rail transport regulation and modernisation funds, from 37 and a half billion in 2005 to 42.9 billion in 2006. If we do not speed up the modernisation of the railways, our economy will suffer great economic damage and rail transport will take place west and east of us. However, it is particularly important for us in our parliamentary group to define greater investment in state roads. In 2006, public road funding will increase by 6.6 billion or 18.3%, depending on 2005. This decision is all the more important because there was little investment and very poor investment in state roads. Greater investment in state roads is essential from the perspective of coherent regional development, as state roads are usually the worst and the least developed areas that are also the farthest from motorways. In the past days, when the debate on the budget relaunched, we have heard a whole lot of untrue information on the Committee on Finance and also in the media, in particular by some opposition Members. Public debt is said to increase by 600 billion, which is not true. The Ministry of Finance provided clear information on how much public debt will increase in 2005. Some opposition MPs at one of the spring meetings claimed that economic growth in Slovenia was low. They also argued that the deficit was too large and that we would not meet the conditions for taking over the euro. They also claimed that in 2005 we would be net payers in relation to the European budget. These claims are not true. Slovenia is on track to take over the euro and we will not have net payers in the European budget in 2005. To the New Slovenia Group, we will support the 2006 draft budget because we think it is good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u249	Thank you. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the consideration of the supplementary draft budget. We will discuss individual parts of the budget and the amendments tabled. As an individual part, they are counted: firstly, the general part, secondly, the special part and thirdly, the development programme plan. So we are moving on to the general part of the supplementary draft budget. Who wants a word? Comrade Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u250	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Otherwise, I hope that the government itself will be able to say something about the general part of the budget, however, two questions or thoughts. The general part of the budget is that it is unclear on the revenue side for 2006 and 2007. Then, in the case of European funds - and perhaps another minister - this could be heard - is rather optimistic or very optimistic. It provides for a total of 107 billion from European funds. The data for the 9 months of this year show - and this year we predict even 115 billion revenue - that the revenue from European funds is only 48 billion dollars. I would therefore like to know how the government will replace or replace the revenue expected from the European Union in 2006 or what the ministers will do on the basis of the European Union's promised funds to draw up different programmes. [[...]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u251	Fellow Members and fellow Members! If you don't calm down, I'll have the session suspended in 20 minutes. It's your call.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u252	I would like to know what individual ministers, the Minister for Environment and Space, the Minister for Science, the Minister for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, including the new Minister, Mr Jože P. Damjan, will do on the side of budget expenditure if everything planned is not realized in 2006. That's the first question. Second question. I'd like to explain my debt. That is, 359 billion dollars is owed to cover the deficit and the repayment of the debt. In addition to these 359 billion tolars, an additional 150 billion so-called guarantees are foreseen and a special amount of funds, as determined by ZIPRO itself, for Dars' debt and the like. I would like to know why the Minister for Finance, who has advocated the inclusion in the State budget of this type of debt in the past years, of the debt that has been excluded from the data on page 58 at ZIPRO, why the Minister for Finance has not done so. These two responses will then provide an urgent response to what the government will do in 2006 and 2007, if everything planned is not achieved and it will have to act. What are the planned measures of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia? I want you to answer either Mr Minister or some of the ministers in question on my part. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u253	Thank you. I think Minister Bajuk will answer you, given that he has also applied. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u254	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. In fact, I will not answer these questions, but I would like to explain certain things that are repeated in the presentations of some Members and Members, and these are doubts as to how in this draft budget, the Minister of Finance and the Government is actually going to calculate the expected revenue as regards the corporate income tax. The starting point. In 2004, the implementation of the 2004 budget showed that we won 124 billion tolars on this line. In 2005, our best data-based calculations show that we will end the year by actually moving from the 124 billion to the 146.3 billion. However, we are planning for the budget for 2006 164.7 billion. The difference between one year and another, this is from 2005 to 2006, is 18.4 billion. The number 40 billion we've been talking about today is unclear. The information is also available to you in the rapporteurs who are here. How do you calculate that? In my presentation, I have also told you that these projections are one of the most difficult parts of the budget preparation. However, I have also stated, and in doing so I insist that the professional services have done a very good job, in that they have also followed the instructions they had, that we must be very conservative, as far as income projections are concerned, because this is the only thing that can assure us that we will be able to implement this budget in such a way, as predicted, and that there will be no deficit of more than 1.4% of gross domestic product as planned. So that's 18.4 billion differences. How, then, can this be justified? It is foreseen on the basis of the analyses carried out by the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development, 4% of gross domestic product growth in real terms. That's a six-and-a-half-percent nominal. 6.4% of 146 billion is 9.4 billion. Of these 18.4 we have 9.4 already covered here, just by assuming that this will be economic growth. Then, on the basis of our assumptions, when we prepared the balance, we were so conservative that we also anticipated lower revenues on this line, and we expect an additional two billion to do so. Then it's a change of law. Since 1.1.2005, a new law, now in force, has been in place, on the corporate income tax, which has eliminated 10% relief on the basis of the basis that they could have had as a reservation, for reserves, for future investments. This law has been repealed by itself and has ceased to apply since 1.1.2005. An additional 5 billion are expected. But then it's also due to what's a little bit harder to explain, but I think we'll all understand, but the effects, the expected effects in this area, also of the 20% reduction in the tax on paid wages, will mean that companies, legal persons will have more resources, some will invest, it's hard to predict how much they invest and how much they will actually show as a profit. The fact is that we very conservatively expect this to be 2.5 billion, which is 18.9 billion on the basis of this calculation, the difference is only 18.4, because that's all we used, but these are the accounts we had. So the so-called gaps that are supposed to exist, I hope that this is clearly explained, that there are serious grounds for this calculation and that no one has to worry too much. We have worked conscientiously, and as far as income is concerned, very conservatively, we do not expect any problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u255	Thank you. Minister Zupan also took the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u256	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The honourable Member who asked what we will do with this in the Structural Funds, which we will not do for next year. The fact is, according to this plan, we are going to implement all of our plans. We have, you specifically asked, for higher education, we have 8 centres of excellence, this year was 768 million, and the second year would be a billion 590 million. Everything's going as planned. Tenders were made. But the fact is that this year we spent three quarters of this year cleaning up and clearing up the giant confusion that occurred in 2004, when these projects started to work and, of course, from an organizational point of view, it was extremely poorly run, so we had to do it strongly so that we could get into the situation we are in, that we will then succeed in the second year. But there are institutes, of course they have to be commended, all research organisations, all those organisations that have participated in these projects, so that they have accomplished what they have committed with extraordinary efforts. However, this had to be done on the organisational side, because of the very complicated things that were not needed, which were poorly organised, and we hope to do so even better in the coming year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u257	In the context of the discussion on the general part of the supplementary draft budget, a colleague of Cvikl also applied. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u258	Very briefly, otherwise there is no minister, but a comparison must be made [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u259	Comrade Bayuk. Peace in the hall, please. My friend Squeakle has a word, and he's the only one who has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u260	Mr. Secretary, without alarm, I didn't see you here, but I didn't see you in the darkness in the back of the hall. It is necessary to compare data in 2004 because the tax system introduced by the amendment is the same in 2006 and 2004. In 2004, there were 124 billion tax sources, and in 2006 you were wrong, at least according to ESA 95 methodology, you are planning 164. Time will tell you who's right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u261	Thank you. Member Martin Mikolić has entered the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u262	Thank you for your word, chairman. Respectable ministers with co-workers, respected colleagues and colleagues! I will primarily discuss the general part of the 2006 budget, and I would like to start by saying that the budget before us today is certainly a respectable document and we simply cannot compare it with the budgets of the past years, which could be called the budgets of continuity and stagnation. The proposed budget for next year rests on the key tasks and outcomes that we need to deliver in the future. The year 2006 will be a key year for Slovenia, in which we have to provide definitively all macro-economic conditions for taking over the euro. Slovenia has entered the ERM 2 European Exchange Mechanism, which has an important impact on public finance, wages and monetary policy, as it will be necessary to ensure consistent compliance with fiscal and monetary Maastricht criteria. Thus, the government's basic and most important macroeconomic objective is to ensure all conditions, namely inflation, deficit, public debt and the euro takeover rate in 2007. The 2006 and 2007 budget takes precedence over the development strategy of Slovenia and subordinates economic and public financial structural and development measures. The share of gross social product expenditure is decreasing in the proposed budgets. The budget deficit does not rise; in 2007 it decreases to 1.2% of the gross social product. The budget takes account of changes in tax legislation. The changes adopted have an impact on the revenue side of the budget and the exit had to be replaced by alternative sources, notably by rationalising certain expenditure. The fact is that a package of tax legislation changes significantly improves the situation of all taxpayers, citizens, citizens, businesses, potential new investors. With the draft budget, the government is gradually achieving the objectives set out in the coalition contract, in which we have stated that we will create favourable conditions to accelerate economic growth, relieve from a tax perspective and create a more competitive economy, and improve the quality of life and prosperity of citizens and citizens. One important measure, perhaps under-aware of it, is the gradual abolition of the tax on paid wages. This will certainly have an impact on the reduction of labour costs, and it is even more important that companies be able to employ a highly educated professional cadre, which costs more and is literally unable to afford it right now due to the high pay-out tax. However, knowledge is certainly essential for enhancing competitiveness in the market. Funds to promote the competitiveness of the economy are increasing. In this context, in 2006 the resources to promote the export orientation of Slovenian companies increased by 60%. In 2006, funds of SIT 4.9 billion are planned to promote foreign investment, which is 67.5% more than this year. In line with the Lisbon Strategy, funds for co-financing research focused on economic development and innovation are increasing. This will encourage investment in research and technological development, which will increase domestic and foreign investment flows. Funds to promote coherent regional development or to co-finance local community projects are substantially increasing. May I remind you, years ago, there was a Ministry of Economic Relations and Development. In particular, this was abolished, and this may not be the most important because the then authorities did not wish or were unable to enforce the law on coherent regional development adopted in the 1999 National Assembly, which stated that at least 1% of the gross social product should be intended to address demographic problems and regional differences. I will read what was written in Article 19: "The amount of resources which, in accordance with the budgetary memorandum in the State budget, is earmarked by the Government for development incentives, cannot be less than 0.5% of gross domestic product, it is said that this was true for 1999 and in the first financial year following the adoption of this law must not be less than 1% or percentage point of gross domestic product." This meant, in fact, that in 2000 the then government should spend 43 billion out of the budget. If this were to be done then and in the years to come, we would not be in such a state today, not Prekmurje, not Kozyansky, but I would not continue to mention. In this context, however, I would like to point out what we have heard on the Committee, that we are allocating certain financial resources in the 2006 and 2007 budget, which do not have a legal basis. I must tell you that for me there is an even greater disaster, that it was a legal basis at the time, and the budget of the law was not being implemented. The new government has broken its several-year agony of the country's or former government's attitude towards local communities with the budget's adopted rebalancing for this year. And in 2006, the government is still increasing funds for this purpose, namely to finance a regional infrastructure of 6.2 billion tolars. Investment transfers to municipalities are increasing significantly, with 27.9 billion planned for 2006 – 31.7% more than this year. Funding to promote housing is increasing, with planned assets for the recapitalisation of the housing fund totalling 6 billion, with which the housing fund will provide additional rental apartments. Funds for investment in health care are increasing. The additional resources are also allocated for the purposes of reducing waiting lines. Since investment maintenance and construction of state roads were almost completely forgotten in the past, 23.8 billion tolars were planned for this purpose in 2006, 43.2% more than in 2005. In addition to some of the statements I have drawn from the budget, the budget also shows that the government will generate savings on its own expenditure on goods and services and on business and wages. Let me finish where I started. We have ahead of us one of the most important budgets in recent years, mainly due to the adoption of the euro in 2007, the implementation of tax reforms, the decommissioning of the economy and the increase of competitiveness, or the taking over of priorities from the development strategy of Slovenia. The proposed budget follows these objectives and I will support it as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u263	Thank you. The following is a statement by Member Rudi Veršnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u264	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Good bye to all of you! Dear colleagues and colleagues! Today we are looking at the first government budget that took over the helm a year ago. I'm not going to bore you with information that you can certainly read yourself in large-scale writing. It is perfectly logical and normal that the budget is set in a completely different way from the budgets that have been drawn up so far. That is why I am particularly aware of the opposition's colleagues that they are not and will not find a good word for it. To be honest, I didn't even expect to be commended. I expect, however, that we leave the government with different priorities, different allocations of budgetary resources. But I am not prepared to listen to those conclusions that simply do not hold, and to those who speak falsely and deceive the public in their performances. Ineligible for the 2006 budget plan, there is a clear lack of State spending on science and technology development and the promotion and support of economic activities. Instead of listening to demagogic performances, let us take a look at the information that they prove to be the opposite. The budget expenditure for science and technological development is planned for two ministries, the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology. In the 2006 budget, the Ministry of Economy devoted 6.1 billion or 87.6% more to science and technological development than in 2005, in fact 100% more than in 2004, when it was realized at the Ministry of Economy 3.1 billion tolars, and in 2005 it estimated this consumption 3.3 billion. The Ministry of Economy also allocates significant funds to the economy in 2006, amounting to 12.8 billion tolars, while in 2004 only 7.5 billion were spent for these purposes. Higher resources in the 2006 budget are also provided for internal affairs and security, an increase of 17.5 billion or 21.1%, which is fully intended to finance the establishment of the southern border; agriculture, forestry and fisheries an increase of 12.6 billion or 15.7%; health care an increase of 6.3 billion or 32.8%; local government an increase of 1.1 billion or 18.9%. Fellow mayors, do you remember when the last increase in funds for local self-government was? The acquisition and distribution of energy raw materials increased by 0.8 billion or 10.3%; environmental and natural heritage protection increased by 1.8 billion or 6.9%; education increased by about 20 billion or 6.3%; rail transport and infrastructure under transport, transport infrastructure and communications increased by 4.7 billion or 15.3% in 2005 and by 2004 by 11.3 billion tolar. Even the allegations that the government is giving too little money to the employment policy are absolutely not true. In 2004, an active employment policy was allocated 17.2 billion tolars. The 2006 draft budget plans 20.6 billion or a good 3 billion more for this purpose. There are also many eyewitnesses on the highway construction program. The main highway cross was built this year. As a result of the construction of motorways, regional and local roads have been destroyed and it seems to me that it is the right decision to redirect budgetary resources to the regulation of these road links. Given the objective presentation of the structure of state spending in 2006, we can conclude that it certainly reflects the development priorities identified by the government in Slovenia's new development strategy. With its amendments, the opposition wanted to increase certain areas or spending objectives, which could not be supported, as the overall volume of state spending cannot be increased if we want to respect the achievement of the Maastricht criteria and take over within the planned period of 1.1.2007, the euro-monetary currency. However, the opposition's proposals to reduce spending at the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Interior are irresponsible, as the opposition must also be clear that Slovenia, as a member of NATO and the European Union, must fulfil its obligations in these areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-08-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u265	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the general part of the supplementary draft budget. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present, 38 votes in favour, 16 votes in favour. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 16.]] I note that the general part of the supplementary draft budget has been adopted. Before proceeding to the consideration of the specific part of the supplementary draft budget, allow the notification, in accordance with the agreement to the College, I will suspend the meeting for today and we will continue it tomorrow at 10 a.m. when we meet with the review of the amendments and the vote on the proposed amendments. Until then, good night.
