ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-23-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the continuation of the 3rd meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I was informed that they were detained and that today's meeting could not be attended by the following Members: Ivan Grill, Robert Hrovat, Alojz Posedel, Matjaž Švagan, Janko Weber and Bogomir Zamernik. We're moving to 3. Agenda item - Second Defence Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Economic Collection of Slovenia. The draft law was tabled by a group of Members with the first-signed Mr Saš Pečet. With regard to this law, the Committee on the Economy proposes to the National Assembly that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. On the basis of the third paragraph of Rule 134 of the Rules of Procedure, I give the floor first to the representative of the proposed law, Mr Saš Pićet, to complete the explanation of the bill. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-23-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u2	Your Honors are here! The law we offer you for admission follows or tries to implement a constitutional provision on freedom of business integration. The assembly system, as protected in our country by the previous government and announced for ten and a few years, is based on our assessment on an unjustified obligation that economic operators in our society must be members of an institution called the Chamber of Commerce. As you probably know, the Law on the Chamber of Commerce is the statutory law in all other chamber laws, whether it be the chambers of agriculture or the chambers of commerce or so. In the framework of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, we assess or believe that any coercion of economic operators in our country is unjustifiable. It is not justified, in particular, at the moment when all of us are full of our mouths, when we are talking about how an economic initiative should be encouraged and promoted for our common prosperity. In the existing system of membership subject to the obligation, economic operators are forced to be members of the Chamber of Commerce, irrespective of the efficiency of the Chamber. Within the framework of the Slovenian National Party or as proposing parties, we are convinced that it would be appropriate to approach a change in the organisational form or system of membership. According to our assessment, economic operators in our society should be left free to decide whether or not they want to be members of the Chamber of Commerce. Let their leadership be solely theirs and be the basis of this decision of economic interest. In our country, we have decided ten years and a few years ago that we will try to make sure that the legislative branch of power, the executive branch of power, assist economic operators with all possible measures, so that their market performance will be as much as possible and that their integration into Slovenian economic flows, as well as European and global, will be much easier. According to our assessment, it is possible to define the existing system of functioning of the Chamber of Commerce and the mandatory membership by the term of meaningless financial burden. Why meaningless? It is irrelevant because we allow a parafiscal institution in our constitutional arrangement by means of compulsory membership. The system of compulsory membership of an institution, such as the Chamber of Commerce, is nothing more than a system of parafiscal functioning of an institution within a country, which, of course, is unacceptable in our opinion. Why financial? We speak financially because, of course, membership also brings financial burdens for businesses. Today, according to our assessment, more than 75 per cent of all companies that are under an obligation united in the framework of the Chamber of Commerce do not want to be a member of such an association, because their economic interest does not justify it. Members are solely because they have to be. If an economic operator does not pay a membership fee for such an intangible institution, it shall be subject to sanctions. And why the burden? Because the cost or membership represents the cost of, according to our estimate, unsettled services. THE consequences of the possible adoption of our law, which we are offering you today for admission, would be two. For the first time, economic operators, i.e. companies would voluntarily decide whether they want to be united in the Chamber of Commerce or not. They would be governed by purely economic interest. If the company had assessed that, through its membership in the Chamber of Commerce, it was easier to exercise its interest, i.e. the existence and extension of the market, then they would have joined the Chamber of Commerce. If this is not assessed, and there are many such companies, then they would not be included in such an institution. On the other hand, by adopting this law, i.e. the law offered by the Slovenian National Party for admission, they would subject the Chamber of Commerce to market standards. Today, the Chamber of Commerce is one of those institutions that does nothing on the market, as it receives a mandatory membership for all its members. Therefore, in the National Party, we appeal to all of you who have always had your mouth full before the elections on how you advocate the economic development of our society to support the idea of the Slovenian National Party. Thank you for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-23-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. Pece. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Martin Mikolič will present this on behalf of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-23-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u4	Thank you very much. Well-known colleagues and colleagues, Members and Members of Parliament! The proposer in the proposal for amendments and the addition of the Economic Chamber Act proposes two major amendments, namely the suspension of the principle of compulsory membership in the Chamber and a different way of appointing the Secretary of the Chamber. There are quite a number of valid arguments that suggest that the amended law, as proposed by the proposer, could cause more damage or more outstanding matters than benefits. The proposed amendment is of a systemic nature in order to preserve the conceptual framework of the basic law. Therefore, without a thorough analysis of what a change in compulsory membership in the Chamber would mean, the proposal cannot be supported. The proposed solution to the amendment of the law without the previous period could result in a number of unforeseen consequences also in the enforcement of other laws and regulations which in fact impose public powers on the chamber. Among other things, the proposed amendment does not contain a solution to how the question of the representativeness of the Chamber should be defined in voluntary membership. The change of the concept from compulsory membership to voluntary membership should certainly also be linked to the change in the status of the Chamber, as well as to the changes in the role and tasks of the Chamber, in particular those exercised by the Chamber on the basis of public powers. As a consequence of the amended basis for membership in the Chamber, it would certainly be necessary to introduce amendments to other provisions of the law governing the organisation, composition and method of setting up the assembly bodies. Due to certain problems that have been exposed in the last period to the work and efficiency of the Chamber of Commerce, it is right for the legislator to take a certain measure in this area. It is also likely that a law on the Chamber of Commerce was passed in 1990. In this direction, there was also an overall discussion on the working body, where it was generally felt that the issue of assembly and organisation should be fully regulated by appropriate legislation. It would certainly be necessary to analyse the existing situation and efficiency of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and the Chamber of Agriculture and Agriculture. In the light of all the above facts in the New Slovenia Group, we support the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia that the issue of assembly and organisation in the Chamber of Commerce should be fully regulated by a new bill to be submitted by the Government for consideration in the first half of this year. This is why today's amendment and amendment of the law will not be supported by the New Slovenia Group, but will be pleased to support the proposal for a law that will contain the full solutions to the future assembly organisation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-23-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Followed by a presentation by the United Nations Group of Social Democrats. This will be presented by Mr. Ferri Horvat. I apologize to Mr Horvath. He should be first in line, but there was a mistake in the two charters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-23-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u6	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear Government Representative, colleagues and colleagues, all present! Members and Members of our Joint List will not support the bill or support the decision adopted by the mother labour body that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia is not suitable for further consideration. The validity of such a decision is evidenced by the high level of agreement at the meeting, both in the debate and in the vote, which proves that the decision was adopted unanimously by 13 votes in favour, against only a representative of the applicants. That is why I also propose, colleagues and colleagues, that we confirm such a decision and reject the law. Such a view does not mean that we dispute the legitimate comments on the current situation in the assembly system in all three chambers, but on the economic, agricultural and craftsmanship. That improvements are needed is true, but the key question is how to make these improvements. It would be extremely irresponsible and even harmful, poorly prepared novel, which has only seven articles, of which three transitional provisions and one article to enforce the law, in order to undermine the existing concept of assembly systems by one cultural revolution overnight without offering something better. An inadequate intervention into the concept of the assembly system is also a legitimate reminder of our legal and regulatory service. The bill, as you can see, is not supported by the government, and the opposition is expressed by the two economic commissions and the small economy and tourism in the state world. And a few more arguments. The State of Slovenia and the Slovenian economy need an effective assembly system at home, especially in the European Union and especially in the globalised world, particularly in the following areas. Firstly, representativeness and legitimacy are needed in representing the interests of the whole economy in the social partnership vis-à-vis the country and other institutions at home and abroad. It is necessary to be able to take over and to exercise good public authority. The role of the Chambers in international economic cooperation, in promoting trade, tourism, investment and other areas is still needed. This is particularly important for small and medium-sized enterprises. The role of regional and local chambers is very important and useful, especially now that we do not have regional organisation for economic integration, to promote development, to strengthen cross-border and inter-regional cooperation. Finally, the role of the Chambers for the provision of expert and advisory services on a non-commercial basis is very important, as other things are, of course, carried out by companies on market terms. We support a comprehensive approach to the reform of the assembly system, legislation, internal organisation, decision-making and funding, for all the three chambers I have mentioned. This needs to be done responsibly on the basis of objective comparative analyses with the most comparable countries, with countries with a longstanding market tradition and democratic tradition, and especially with countries that are our main partners. It is completely unrealistic and unrealistic that compulsory membership is not compatible with the market economy, as some say, and it also occurs in the public eye. Consider Italy, Austria, Germany, France, which have a compulsory membership, a system similar to ours. And we can't say that these are non-democratic or non-market countries. Such a system does not limit the free integration of the economy in various forms. This project should involve the economy and interested organisations. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-23-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Kristijan Janc. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-23-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues. The Slovenian People's Party's Group will not support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Slovenian Chamber of Economics Act, because we do not support fast-adopted legislative changes in this area and therefore consider that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. Explanations. The bill provides for the suspension of the principle of compulsory membership in the Chamber and for a different way of organising regional chambers. If an approach is taken without a thorough preliminary analysis of the consequences of the proposal and without a prior period of law enforcement, a number of consequences, including unpredictable ones, in the field of the enforcement of other laws and sub-laws, can therefore be caused. The bill is contradictory because it retains the tasks of the Chamber of Economics of Slovenia and at the same time abolishes the mandatory membership, resulting in the collapse of the system of organising the Chambers itself. It also does not provide deadlines within which the current members of the Chambers should be designated for possible membership in the Chamber, nor for the legal succession of the current Chamber of Commerce. The Slovenian People's Party's Group estimates that the proposal submitted is not suitable for further consideration and that the issue needs to be addressed comprehensively with a new proposal for a law to be submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the first half of 2005. More attention should also be paid to small and medium-sized enterprises when preparing the law, while the assembly system should be more tailored to the needs of its members and should increase the level of activity in the areas of the economic chambers which are involved in its integration and operation. The introduction of voluntary membership in the Chamber means that small businesses would lose their importance in representing interests and the impact of strong economic operators would increase further. The Economic Chamber itself must ensure greater transparency and rationality in its work and more efficient use of integration at the regional chambers of commerce. It should also work more intensively to create conditions for achieving greater added value to an employee. The Slovenian People's Party will support a proposal for a law that will be harmonised at different levels, as well as for all members of the Chamber of Commerce, acceptable and harmonised. The Slovenian People's Party's Group will always support well-prepared measures that will reduce the burden on the Slovenian economy as it becomes less competitive in European and global markets. That is why every cost, even as small as it is, is also a mandatory membership of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. Among the members of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia opinions are very shared and most expect changes or reductions in membership and a more successful chamber. This applies to all companies, including small businesses that have been slightly neglected so far, and the institution itself will need to be rationalised as such. That won't be enough. A comprehensive approach should be taken to reduce economic obligations at all levels of the country if we want a successful economy, new jobs, faster technological development and other matters. All of this will require a lot of efforts by our Slovenian governments to coordinate the revenue and expenditure of the state budget in the coming years. I wish them a successful work and a good preparation of the new law, which is urgently needed for the Slovenian economy, as well as for the Chamber of Economics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-23-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Mr Sašo Peče. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-23-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u10	Your Honor! I'm sorry there's no sound in this national council for smart ideas. I'm sorry that you're so hard and you're not ready to change, despite being dictated by the pace of life in our country. Even though you were living in the previous system, when compulsory membership was envisaged or not yet fully compulsory with respect to communists. And now you are implementing this system or maintaining it in our country's market economy system. Ladies and gentlemen, this isn't working out. It was said that the law was harmful. Harmful marriage because it allows for entrepreneurial initiative! Because we are trying to make our own decisions about their businesses! Is this why the law is harmful? Please, gentlemen, you are, I don't know, 20 years in a row! Second. One of the speakers was hoping to say "overnight." Ladies and gentlemen, the marriage is 12 years old! During the previous term of office, the legislative branch met with this law four years ago when we first lodged it with the national party. The Executive Branch of the Authority, that is, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has met with the competent ministries to deal with such legal matter. The Constitutional Court, i.e. the judiciary, met with this matter when one of the initiatives to abolish the system of compulsory membership came to the Constitutional Court. And then you hope to say "overnight" here today! Gentlemen, you've slept for 12 years! And there's something else. You're saying you want something new. Yes, we're offering you news! Don't you think? We are just offering you a novelty in the bill that the Slovenian National Party sends to the procedure. However, since you have very little knowledge of material, I will tell you that the area of the constituency, compulsory assembly system in our country is governed by nineteen regional laws, which means or excuse me, we have nineteen chambers and all but one have a compulsory membership system. From this city I now predict that if the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, following the example of the previous government, does not keep its promises and accede to the change in the system of chambers, we will be forced to make 18 equal laws in the National Party. Gentlemen, it's time for a change. Eighty laws define the assembly system. Don't you think that's a little too much? And it was said that if we accepted a proposal from a Slovenian national party, we would lose the representativeness of the Chamber of Commerce in negotiations with the government as a social partner. Ladies and gentlemen! You can read daily in the newspaper if you no longer have contact with economic operators and citizens and 75% of the members in the Chamber of Commerce have no connection with giving their views because the management of the Chamber of Commerce does not take them into account. The management of the Chamber of Commerce takes account of one handful of very wealthy entrepreneurs, who are, of course, worth operating in the framework of the Chamber of Commerce. But the system, like today, means that those wealthy economic operators are paying a low fee at the expense of small entrepreneurs who have never had a word at the Chamber of Commerce, let alone that the Chamber of Commerce will do them any service. You're holding your eyes to the truth. It was about the social partnership. Please, which government in the Republic of Slovenia has ever taken the social partner into account? Never. The social partners, unfortunately for the heart, are only here because the government here sometimes refers to them when it suits them and otherwise neglects the social partner. The following said that the Chamber of Economics performed or carried out the public interest tasks!? The Chamber of Commerce shall carry out the tasks of public interest. Ladies and gentlemen, the public interest must be exercised by the government or by the state. The State may not delegate the task of identifying and exercising public interest to entrepreneurs. It's a fight. The Chamber of Commerce is set up with only one purpose to bring together those who want to be members of this Chamber of Commerce to help them. And if it doesn't help them, then why would these members be forced to pay the membership fee? This is incomprehensible and according to our assessment, of course, paradoxical. In its explanation, the Chamber of Commerce, in response to the draft law we have written in the National Party, has repeatedly stressed that they exercise public interest. Public interest, if already imposed by the State, should also be financed by the State. But not as it is now that they refer to the public interest which is "improved" in nicknames of course performed by the economic chamber on behalf of the government, but at the expense of entrepreneurs. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not going together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-23-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u11	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Bojan Starman to give the opinion of his party on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-23-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u12	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group will not support the proposed amendment of the law. However, it is not said that the majority of the comments and arguments of the applicant do not agree, thus giving only time and the possibility of a thorough preparation of the changes that will take place as soon as possible after the government has promised. The facts are such that the organisation of the Chamber of Economics needs and urgent radical and rapid changes. We cannot imagine that the organisation is still operating under the roof law of 1990, as it should be the economic chamber that should be an example of rapidly adapting to the new market system and the new economy, but it has not done so. Of course, compulsory membership is a big deal because if you are so easily allocated by the decision of the state authorities, you do not have to worry about unhappiness programs, to increase the quality of your services, and I think that the chamber itself should have changed this mandatory funding system long ago or substantially changed it. If we look at the system itself. In 1990 there were 3,000 members in the Chamber of Commerce, today there are 64,000. From this point of view, the percentages paid by companies should also be changed. Some companies do not pay up to 3 million 900, these are said to be 30,000, other companies pay 0.22% of gross wages plus depreciation, which are extremely large amounts. Above all, we think that it is necessary to rationalise this area and, in any way possible, we will have to make sure that the conditions for our economy are improved, and that all unnecessary burdens are actually reduced. We are forced, our economy is forced to sell on the open market, and the market knows that it recognises only those costs in the price of the product that are urgently needed. I do not think that such a level of costs of the Chamber of Commerce is necessarily necessary and could be significantly lower or could not be. We will strive and continue to support things in order to relieve the economy in other areas as well. I would like to point out that one of the things that we will always point out is the excessive burden of the system itself with taxes and contributions. There will also be a need to make changes as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-23-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The position of the LDS Group will be presented by Mr Matej Lahovnik. Please, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-23-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u14	Thank you very much. Dear Poles, Members of Parliament. In the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we will not support the existing proposal ahead of us. Nevertheless, we believe that changes to the existing law on the situation and role of the Chamber of Commerce and the other chambers we are facing in Slovenia are necessary. This also shows the discussions that have taken place on the Committee on the Economy. This is also shown by reflections coming from the field. This is also illustrated by the public controversy in the Slovenian public. First, it is necessary to decide whether we want to continue to insist on compulsory membership in the Chambers, which is typical of continental European space, or whether we want to design membership more in a voluntary way than we do in the Anglo-Saxon system. We have found that there are many shortcomings in compulsory membership. Above all, the fact that compulsory membership in some way means the silence of the management of the Chambers. We can ask ourselves why the members in these chambers would not vote with their feet, why not actually go to the one who offers them a public representative function and also for the other services the most. This is one of the basic questions, whether to switch to voluntary membership, and in any case to increase and allow competition between the Chambers to the extent possible. Look, if you just take the agri-agricultural chamber, which has 173 thousand members. One feels that Slovenia is itself a large agricultural country. But when you go to look at the data, you see that there are 110 thousand members who have a little bit more land to pay for some flat. As early as 2004, this flat was worth 3,000 tolars. From this, the chamber collected 330 million tolars of rent. Nice rent! Now this flat has suddenly dropped to 2,000 tolars and is just 220 million tolars of rent. We can ask ourselves what all those small, conditioned farmers have with a few square metres of land from the work itself in the chamber. Of course, I do not argue that it does not perform a useful task for certain agricultural producers. But here is where it shows the fact that certain changes and overheating of this system are necessary. Also in the field of economy, the Committee on the Economy has shown that many entrepreneurs pay a flat rate of 3,000 tolars. The businesswoman who was present pointed out that they also had certain services to do so. She was saying that for at least 6,000 tolars. I allow this to be the case, and I will also support the analysis carried out to show the real benefits and costs of entrepreneurs and other economic operators from such economic interest associations. In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we are convinced that the existing debate is useful, that it is necessary to rewind the existing system, to re-check the benefits and weaknesses of the mandatory membership that we have established, and also to review the way in which membership is paid, whether such a system is true and, above all, the membership of these chambers should be listened to. Finally, the members and members of these Chambers are those who must have a decisive word. They also have different chambers. And if members and members decide to change, then in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we believe that there is no reason for politics to be on the other side. Moreover, we believe that such changes should then be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-23-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u15	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The proposal for a decision will then be decided in accordance with the minutes of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 6th item of the agenda or at the latest at the time set for the vote. I'm breaking this agenda. We're moving to four. PERIOD OF THE DAY - SECOND CONSIDERATION OF THE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE VETERINARY LAW. The draft law was tabled by a group of Members, with the first signed by Barbara Žgajner Tavš. With regard to this law, the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food proposes to the National Assembly that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. On the basis of the third paragraph of Rule 134 of the Rules of Procedure, I give the floor first to the representative of the drafters of the law, Mrs Barbara Žgajner Tavš, for further explanation of the bill. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-23-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u16	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! The law drawn up by the Slovenian National Party covers those truly urgent amendments to be adopted under the Veterinary Act itself, as they reflect the irregularities or shortcomings of the 2001 legislation and the related sub-legislative acts which are older than the date. The draft law was first introduced by the Slovenian National Party into the parliamentary procedure at the end of the previous term, but due to the business regulations or practice of the work, we are re-investing the law or putting it into the current mandate. The current system of veterinary service in the Republic of Slovenia is restrictive and does not allow for adequate developmental competitiveness of the veterinary service market. Through the definition of the scope of the public veterinary service and the institute of concession contracts, the State has under direct control the functioning of the entire veterinary service, including private clinical work, which has in the past resulted in cases of direct or indirect abuse of the power of the competent national authorities. Under current conditions, it is virtually impossible to establish a new veterinary clinic or clinic. The entire Republic of Slovenia is already divided into concession areas and, on the other hand, the vast majority of veterinary activities are defined as public service for which the State grants work permits through the Institute of Concessions. However, the granting of concessions is only every 10 years, according to the current regulation, the country will not reopen the issue of the award of concessions until 2009. Concessions, however, determine the area of work and the free areas are no longer available. Moreover, an individual veterinarian may not, for example, carry out animal treatment activities without its explicit designation in the concession contract. Such arrangements, according to the Slovenian National Party and those which, of course, are also engaged in this area, are rigid and do not allow for normal development, while limiting the necessary competitiveness and functioning of the quality veterinary service market on the Slovenian market. It is also contrary to certain Directives of the European Union, such as the area of mutual recognition of professional qualifications. The question is also raised as to the need for a mandatory assembly system, which we have already heard today, under point 2. Is the Chamber really in the interest of its members? And let me just remind you of the recent complications in the elections of the bodies of the agri-agricultural chamber, where only the will and power of a certain lobby is clearly manifest. Let me remind you, participation was ridiculously low, only 12.7%. The purpose and purpose of the proposed law is to liberalise the veterinary service market through a new definition of the scope of the public veterinary service and, inter alia, to implement the principle of the pet veterinarian without restrictions on the performance of veterinary activities which are not defined as a public veterinary service. Part of the veterinary service, as proposed, is also carried out in the future as a public veterinary service, while other activities are left to individuals and institutions fulfilling certain conditions under the laws and regulations. These amendments also follow the constitutional definition of allowing competition in the veterinary field, thus contributing to better supply or better quality services. The proposed novel, as I have already mentioned, also removes the ten-year period, which is in the current regime in meeting the other professional and technical conditions of the conditions for obtaining a concession in the field of so-called great practice and the condition of local competence, which is also supported by the present members of the working body of the State Council, who have expressed in their assessments the need for such overheating of the veterinary field and also in terms of the abolition of local competences for the abolition of concession services. Since time is chasing me, let me finish. In an official opinion, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia undertakes to prepare legislative amendments by the end of March 2005. It will also examine and take into account the changes described in the draft law by the Slovenian National Party. Finally, if the proposal for a decision of the home working body of the national assembly, which is negative, is adopted, the Government is once again urged to take a real approach to the legislative changes in this area, taking into account the actual situation in the Republic of Slovenia. After all, the European Union allows or leaves this option to us. Unfortunately, Slovenia has done the most damage in the area of agriculture in the Republic of Slovenia, precisely because of adapting to the European Union in the past.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-23-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Ms. Marica Lukačič, Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, and Mrs. Vida Čadonjič Šeplič, Director of Veterinary Administration of the Republic of Slovenia are also present. I say hello to both of you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Ms Marjetka Uhan, Nova Slovenija has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-23-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u18	Honourable Presidents, Government Representatives, Members and Members of Parliament. Although the proposed law is short, it is very much an intervention in the veterinary field. The proposed proposal for a law amending and supplementing the veterinary law would, in the opinion of the applicants, allow for the realization of the veterinary service market: the establishment of a private infirmary, clinic, laboratory, at the same time allow for the selection of a pet veterinarian. The proposed amendments also refer to the voluntary membership of veterinarians in the Veterinary Chamber, the modification of the conditions to be met by the Director-General. According to the current organisation, the veterinary system covers the whole country and is accessible to all citizens according to the organisation of the service. In addition to regular, preventive and curative treated animals, it is responsible for animal protection measures against infectious and other diseases and for the protection of the population against zoonoses and infections of animal origin. It is therefore important that the proper organisation of the veterinary service – otherwise, it can have consequences for animals and humans and thus for economic damage. Part of the tasks prescribed by the Minister, such as diagnostic and preventive actions for the current year, are public service and state funding. According to the government representative, 94 concessions have been granted in our country and animal owners have the option of selecting a veterinarian, which is challenged by the bill's proponents. According to the Legislative and Legal Service, the proposed amendments would have a fundamental impact on the concept of an existing law. However, the current regulation of the law is not contrary to the Constitution and the legislation in force, as the motioner claims. The Government is preparing an amendment to the veterinary legislation which will be in line with the European directives for that area. It would therefore be useful to include the proposed amendments to veterinary legislation if they were not contrary to legislation. In particular, we agree on a private initiative to make this real in practice. In New Slovenia, we expect the country to prescribe and finance the measures necessary for the safety of humans and animals and leave the rest to the market. We agree that the existing veterinary law is bad. However, when it comes to amending the law, the issue must be addressed comprehensively and systematically. The law also needs to identify users, especially farmers, and not just veterinarians. Today's proposed Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Veterinary Act in Novi Slovenije will not be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-23-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please, Mr. Mag. Janez Kramberger.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-23-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings to the Minister and the Director of Veterinary Administration. Colleagues and colleagues. We will not support the proposed law in our Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. We note that the proposed amendments and additions in individual articles have a fundamental impact on the concept of an existing law. At the same time, we note that these provisions have already been judged before the Constitutional Court, and I believe that at the initiative of the Council of State and also of the Veterinary Chamber. The Constitutional Court has not found that they are contrary to the Constitution for these provisions in force, in which they affect the proposed amendments and additions to this Act. In particular, the applicant’s claim to restrict the free economic initiative was rejected. I must stress this in particular because the applicant stated in his explanation that it follows the constitutional definition of allowing competition and that the objective it seeks to achieve with these amendments and additions is, in particular, market liberalisation. Colleagues and colleagues, veterinary activity, which includes measures to protect animal health against infectious and other diseases, to protect the population from zoonoses and infections of animal origin, is an important activity. Mistakes and irregularities in the organisation and operation of such a service can cause serious consequences or even disasters, both in animals and in the population; this, after all, we have seen in some European countries a few years ago. In particular, I would like to point out that the applicants are interfering with the concept of the organisation of veterinary service in the Republic of Slovenia on the one hand, and on the other hand do not offer a comprehensive solution. If this law had been adopted, there would be problems mainly in the implementation of the public veterinary service, which would ultimately pose a risk to the protection of animal and human health. Undoubtedly, it is the duty of the State to regulate this activity in a way that will make the service accessible to all, since it is in the public interest. The sustainability of the service, the public and transparency must be ensured, in particular the part of the public interest - the protection of human and animal health, the prevention of the spread of zoonoses, the protection of animals against torture, this is undoubtedly a public interest. Since this is an incomplete and unprofessional change of law, we will not support it in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-23-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u21	Thank you. The position of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Mr Srečko Friend. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-23-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u22	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Respectable assembly, colleagues and colleagues! This country is not friendly to legal persons who create new added value in the Republic of Slovenia. For if it were, then those who are bound to do according to this law would also be heeded. Assembly systems are generally very poor if they are mandatory. And it's also a payment, and there's not a lot of it. Those who today create so-called new added value and care for new jobs are obliged to pay also pension and disability obligations to the institution, tax on the invoice issued [[20%]] However, this is never paid, then even the obligation to pay for copyright if the radio is turned on in its restaurant or infirmary, because we are talking about this law, and other obligations to the chambers, chambers of commerce, chambers of commerce, in this case veterinary, etc. If one of these accounts is not paid, the next block and the tax administration is not interested in why he did not receive payment to the invoice for the service provided, but is simply blocking the account. This law, which we, the Slovenian National Party, have proposed, is, in our opinion, a good and very suitable competition that is not today. If someone can open a new veterinary outpatient, only medicines can be sold in it. This was also noted by the parental committee which dealt with this law. And let me refer to the fact that the veterinary field in the European Union countries is regulated at the level of the community. The organisation of the profession in one country is not determined by any of the Directives. We're the only ones doing this here in Slovenia. Finally, I would also like to say that it is interesting to hear the expert opinions of individual parliamentary groups, which actually advocate some of the lobbies they are members of. The majority view of the members of the Committee was that the applicable veterinary law must undoubtedly be corrected or amended in certain provisions. So we agree that the existing one is bad. And the essential reason that led the members of the committee to decide not to support the proposal that we have proposed is to assure the government that it will prepare a new one by March 2005. Therefore, there is no need to talk about a quality marriage that is fast - prepared, and I think you are even insulting. The Government also argues that the award of the concession is not, in essence, restrictive. That's just not true. This has already been explained by my colleague and I think we should pay more attention to the profession in this area, which points out that something is wrong in this segment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-23-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Mr Franz Sušnik. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-23-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u24	Mr President, Madam Minister, Members and Members of Parliament! We reject the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Veterinary Act, which has been tabled in the legislative procedure by a group of Members, with the first signed by Barbara Žgajner Tavš, as an inappropriate solution. The proposal seeks to regulate exclusively and in particular a narrow veterinary field, which is limited only to improving the position of veterinarians. However, this is totally unacceptable, given the already pre-ordained regulation of the veterinary field in the Republic of Slovenia, which additionally burdens it already legally and the enforcement of a series of superstandards and privileged veterinary status. The bill has overlooked the problems of farmers, the problems of breeders and many users of veterinary services, which is the main disadvantage of the legal proposal under consideration. The legality of the veterinary certificate in internal traffic, the definition and arrangements of insemination as well as breeding activities, the arrangements for breeding breeders and natural leave, the financing of the veterinary service, the fixing of the prices of veterinary services prescribed by the State, the organisation of the veterinary network, which will also allow for greater competition and the functioning of the market also in the veterinary field, are only the most neat and completely inadequately regulated areas which are certainly to be re-organized and not covered by the legal proposal under consideration. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we will therefore support the proposal of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food, which states that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Veterinary Act is not suitable for further consideration. However, we Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party, when adopting and following the entry into force of the Veterinary Law in 2001, warned that the regulation of this very important and wide area was inadequate and, unfortunately, we tried to remove the main and most prominent and inadequate provisions of the applicable veterinary law by means of legislative proposals. Thus, a whole range of superstands has been legalized, which are in no way comparable to those in neighbouring countries. Thus, in the years following the implementation of the law, the veterinary profession, at the expense of users, especially farmers and others, unjustifiably acquired a position which is not comparable and optimal in view of the role and position that the veterinarian would have earned in its primary function, which is the care for safe food and animal health and welfare. This claim is also confirmed by agrarian economists, who have warned us of a disproportionate increase in the use of veterinary budget resources at the expense of other agricultural professionals and at the same time an increase in veterinary fees imposed on breeders and users of veterinary services. On the basis of the fact that we agree in the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group on the need to amend the veterinary law. The amendment to the veterinary legislation is undoubtedly necessary. This change cannot and cannot only be partial, but the law that is under consideration today is undeniable. Therefore, in the parliamentary group, we fully join the opinions and promises of the government and will take all the necessary steps and efforts to ensure that the government prepares the veterinary law within the deadline. How much more is in our interest and I am convinced, and particularly in the interests of the users, that the new law will cover only the content prescribed by the European Regulations and Directives and that the veterinary field will be comparable, without unnecessary superstandards, which place our breeders and users of veterinary services in a subordinate position and cause them unnecessary problems and costs. Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party will advocate such a veterinary law that will allow sustainable development of agriculture and ensure the development of organic and healthy food, which is our basic and basic guide. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-23-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The position of the LDS Group will be presented by Mr Mag. Borut Saiovic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-23-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Nice greetings to guests from the Ministry of Agriculture and the Director of the Republic Veterinary Administration, greetings to the Members and Members present! We will not support the proposed amendments to the Veterinary Law in the LDS. For the sake of individual trees, it has been known for a long time. In this case, we could say that because of the individual sheep grazed by the tropic, we do not know whether they can trap grass or not in a restricted pasture, we cannot start the entire Slovenian herd. However, there are initiatives and reflections by the proposalers of all consideration and consideration, because times are changing and many things in this world are so good that they could not be much better for the common good. The proposed partial, only superficial and, in practice and in law, non-resistible solutions are not the right basis for changing to a better force exposed and for this country to an extremely important area, as the subject of veterinary care is not only about ensuring animal health protection against infectious diseases and other diseases, but what is very important in Europe today is, above all, the protection of the population against zoonoses and infections of animal origin. The area is extremely wide, affecting agriculture, livestock, consumer protection, as well as the environment, the food industry, transport and trade. However, such broad and important matters cannot be allowed and cannot be allowed to be allowed quickly simply to liberalise the market for services. The State is fully involved in public veterinary matters in this area, as it is ultimately paying for it. However, this is only a quarter of the market for veterinary services, everything else has been on the market for quite a long time, which is unforgivable and sometimes very cruel. In order to enter this market, it is also necessary to have material, spatial, human resources conditions, with appropriate high and professional knowledge, which allow for timely quality professional services. Of course, the country gives much, controls and also strictly requires much in the field of concessions. Permanent 24-hour duty is one of the conditions for concession. The means of meeting this condition are provided by the veterinary organisations themselves on the market. However, the country withdraws from this market, because it is precisely because of the good functioning of the veterinary service in the past and the eradication and management of certain occupational diseases in this area, and thus the cost for the country in this area, that is, every day less. There has been and will be a great deal of talk in this room about unification in a wide variety of chambers. The veterinary field will also need to be arranged in a comparable manner with both the economic, agricultural, medical and medical sectors. It is also important to discuss the staffing conditions for the recruitment of key jobs in this sensitive and for the country, in our humble opinion, fully entitled to the country of the tied system. Finally, EU regulations give importance to this area, so Regulation 882/4, which enters into force from 1.1.2006, as a result of the necessity to draw up a new law in line with EU legislation. The preparation of the new law is an ongoing and immediate task of the new government. In this difficult work, we wish her a happy hand and, to the extent necessary, we also offer active cooperation so that the area that works well will be further regulated for the common benefit of all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-23-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u27	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The proposal for a decision will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 6th item of the agenda or at the latest at the time set for the vote. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to six. POINT OF THE DAY’S EDGE - A DEFINITIVE PREPARATION OF THE DECISION ON THE AMENDMENT OF THE VOTE OF THE RESOURCES REFERRED TO BY A PARTICULAR POLITICAL PARTIES FROM THE STATE BUDGET IN THE YEAR 2004 AND ON THE PROPOSAL OF THE FUNDS REFERRED TO BY A PARTICULAR POLITICAL PARTIES FROM THE GOVERNMENT OF THE STATE BUDGET IN THE YEAR 2005. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia submitted for consideration a proposal for the distribution of funds for the co-financing of the parties in 2004 and 2005. In this regard, the Home Committee for Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice presented to the assembly for discussion the adoption of the draft decisions. I give the floor to Mrs Mojca Kucler Dolinar, President, to present both conclusions. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-23-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Chairman. Hello, fellow Members, Members of Parliament. At its second meeting, the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice discussed proposals for the allocation of funds for the co-financing of political parties for months from October to December 2004 and for the entire year 2005. The proposal was submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on 13.1.2005 for the allocation of funds in 2005 and 31.1. for the allocation of funds for months from October to December 2004. The Committee considered the proposal on the basis of Article 112 in conjunction with Article 171 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and Article 23 of the Political Parties Act laying down the procedure and competences of the National Assembly for the adoption of the relevant decisions in relation to those proposals of the Government. At its meeting in May 2004, the National Assembly adopted a decision on the amount of resources belonging to each political party from the State budget in 2004, by which the National Assembly determined the total amount of funds and the allocation of those funds by individual political parties for 2004, taking into account their electoral success in the election of Members to the National Assembly in 2000. In view of the fact that the election of a Member to the National Assembly was carried out on 3.10.2004, new beneficiaries and individual amounts for financing and co-financing of parties from the State budget for the period from the date of the election to the end of 2004 should be established in accordance with Article 23 of the Political Parties Act, while the total amount of funding for 2004 remains unchanged. Both proposals are in line with the 2004 and 2005 budget and the Political Parties Act, which provides, despite the allocation of funds between individual political parties, for their success in the elections. There was no debate on the proposals on the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice. On the basis of Rule 112 of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee adopted a decision proposing to the National Assembly that it should adopt, under a decision amending the decision on the amount of resources belonging to the individual political party from the State budget for the months from October to December 2004, and under a decision on the amount of appropriations belonging to the individual political party from the State budget for 2005. You have received the draft conclusions and are also an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-23-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Would anyone like to present the position of the parliamentary groups? I guess not. Since I have so far not received any statements from Members for the debate or have given up the debate, I conclude the debate. We will decide on the proposed conclusions and amendments to the conclusions in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, in half an hour, that is at 11.35 a.m. I interrupt this agenda item, and once again I warn you, we will resume the assembly meeting at 11.35. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-23-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving on to the vote of the assembly on the proposals for decisions to point 3. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda - this is the second reading of the proposed law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia is not suitable for further consideration." Anybody want to explain their voice? A deer.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-23-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u31	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I suppose it would make sense for the law to support it. Despite the fact that a representative of the strongest coalition party said that they would probably take our comments into account in their drafting of the legislation and in their law, I think it would make sense to start this process. For if we confirm this law to come into procedure, I think it would shorten the period and shorten the time when these necessary changes would be made. That's why I'm going to vote in this case to keep the law in the process, so I'm going to press the "against" button.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-23-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u32	Thank you very much. Mr Milan Petek also wants the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-23-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u33	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. So, unlike my colleague Jelinčič, I will of course vote differently, i.e. in favour of the proposed decision, because I do not think that such a proposal by the SNS party, i.e. the proposer, meets the serious conditions for possible reception. In particular, since I have already mentioned this, it seems that it is not really a serious intention to change the law, but rather a self-promotion of the proposer, i.e. the SNS party. Symptomatic is that it has been offered to us by the proponents, who, in my opinion, have the least experience, both bad and good, with the work of the Chamber of Commerce, because they are not, as far as I know, their members, nor use their services. This shows, after all, their demands that the Chamber of Commerce go to the market with its services, which would be paradoxical, so that the Chamber of Commerce competes with its members, i.e. those members who carry out the same activity. That, of course, doesn't work together. They also argue that small and medium-sized enterprises are in an unequal situation, possibly partly true, but in this case there is also one paradoxical situation: on the same day as the Committee discussed the subject, there was an award-giving evening for the most prominent economists, i.e. in the field of the economy, and among them there were winners - i.e. three - representatives of small businesses, which shows that, at least in this case, it is not a matter of neglect. I therefore assess that it is necessary and that, of course, it was necessary to discuss the role and importance of the Chamber of Commerce, but I am joining what Minister Vizjak assured the Committee that, on the basis of the analysis and later of the measures taken, the role would be redefined. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] an important way to organise a chamber. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-23-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u34	Thank you very much. I warn you to stick to explaining your vote in your implementation. I mean, anyone else want to explain their voice? Please, Mr. Bojan Rugelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-23-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u35	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I personally believe that it is not appropriate to amend this law at this time, because these amendments proposed by the National Party are only part of what should be resolved in the Chamber of Commerce. I think that the Chamber of Economics has not acted economically enough, and I also think that it has not sufficiently represented the interests of the economy in this loving country and we have the results of the economy today in hand. I therefore support the Government's proposal that it prepare a new law that will fully address this issue. On the other hand, as far as membership is concerned, I do not think we would have so much trouble today with the actual economic chamber acting more cost-effectively and perhaps doing its work for a smaller membership. The same problem is also common in the Chamber of Commerce and the Law on the Chamber of Commerce will have to be completed in this direction in a short time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-23-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u36	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Gnyardsich. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-23-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u37	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, I would like to say that our parliamentary group will also not support the Economic Chamber Act. It is simply not, therefore, because the problems this Chamber has had have accumulated very much, but the solution proposed is not enough to solve most of them. We believe, however, that the content of the proposed law is certainly also part of what will be useful in the drafting of a law to be drawn up by the Government and which will make a more comprehensive change in the functioning of the Chamber of Commerce in the service of the economy, which is not, of course, the material presented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-23-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u38	Thank you very much. Let's go to the vote. We're voting. After the vote, I note that 67 Members and Members attended, 58 votes against 8. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the legislative procedure for the bill has therefore been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda - second reading of the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Veterinary Law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the veterinary law, the second treatment, is not suitable for further consideration." Anybody want to explain their voice? Please, Mr. Zagorac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-23-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u39	Thank you for your word. Your Honors are here! All those who gave your views to the members of the groups agreed that the law needed to be amended and that there was something to be done in the veterinary field. After a thorough hearing, the only valid reason you stated was that the amendment to the law proposed by the Slovenian National Party governed matter in part. In your explanations, you all relied on the fact that you cannot support this law because the government was to prepare a comprehensive, systematic amendment to the veterinary law by March 2005. Please, who are you kidding?Oh, my God! In one month, the government will do what should have been done by now. I don't know when. And then this marriage should be partial?Oh, my God! But this law will be complete. In one month, you're going to solve the entire veterinary field?Oh, my God! Please, you can't fool us with this. With the support of our marriage, we will take at least a step further. However, if there is no support, we will be waiting for one more year, if not two or even an entire mandate, to move something in the veterinary field. Of course, I will support the bill myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-23-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Once again, I would warn the debaters that when they say, "Who wants to explain the voice," they hold the contents and say why they vote like that. Thank you very much. Next up is Mr. Sok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-23-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u41	Thank you for your word. On behalf of the parliamentary group, I would like to explain that we will not support this law today, so we will vote in favour of the proposed decision. However, we must recognise that this law, although it is a short one proposed by the Slovenian National Party, has some good solutions. However, if we would also like to implement them at this point in time, we believe that this would be a very large intervention in the current organisation of veterinary care in the Republic of Slovenia. It even raises the question whether this law can be applied in practice at this time, as it has to be realized that in the veterinary field, ten-year concession contracts have been signed and that these concession contracts will only expire - as has been found by the applicants - in 2009. In fact, the government is preparing its proposal for a law and it will shortly be a bill in the National Assembly, I think within the next fourteen days or three weeks. This law will cover certain directives of the European Union. In this area, legislation in the European Union has changed significantly since we adopted the law in force and it is necessary to reconsider how to incorporate it into our legislation, Slovenian legislation or how to amend the existing law. And, as I can say and point out today, this amendment of the law will remove health certificates in internal traffic in the Republic of Slovenia; this has been a lot of talk in the past. In order to do so, the law must be amended and the government is preparing changes in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-23-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u42	Thank you very much. I'm asking if anyone else wants to explain their voice. Mr Geza Juban, Mr Saiovic, Mrs Tavš and Mr Yelen.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-23-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u43	I'll support the decision of my mother's working body. On the Committee on Agriculture, we have been discussing the law for quite some time, and we have found that, in addition to the solutions proposed by the Slovenian National Party, with which we do not fully agree, there are some solutions in this law that need to be regulated differently. We have found that marriage may not even have been introduced because it was adopted, but because it would not have been adopted. I think that the areas of concession, the conditions for the director and other things that can be managed differently, but the government's promises to which this party proposing a change of law should be credible, such that we hope to get in the future - perhaps not by March, because this will be very difficult - a proposal for a law that we will discuss thoroughly and find solutions that are more appropriate for consumers, for those who are burdened by the law to an appropriate degree, that is agriculture, and also for the veterinary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-23-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Yelen has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-23-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u45	Thank you for your word. Mr Vice-President, Members and Members of Parliament. I will not support the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Veterinary Act because the Government has convinced me in its opinion that the proposed solution is contrary to the rest of the legislation in the law. Another time. I think it is much better to wait for EU law and take into account its articles. It certainly seems to me that it is unnecessary to support this proposed law for the sake of the fact that it does not comply with a European directive which could fully regulate the veterinary field. I also expect the government to regulate in the new law all those areas, which are financed by itself, and leave everyone else to the free economic initiative. In order not to support the law, I was also convinced by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food by a decision that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Veterinary Act was not suitable for further consideration. I was also convinced by the Legislative and Legal Service by its opinion on the individual articles of the draft Veterinary Law and the final position that the amendment bill was not suitable for further consideration. All the above arguments speak of non-support. Nor does the opinion of the State Council and the Veterinary Chamber support or agree with the amendment of the applicable law. I have been fully convinced by these reasoned views, and I will also vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-23-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Saivitz. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-23-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u47	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. In the LDS, we have decided not to support these proposed solutions proposed by our colleagues from the National Party, but we appreciate their initiatives and their reflection. In particular, we think that the matter needs to be fully settled, and that is what the European Directive requires us to do, and above all to have what we have already determined by the veterinarians, that the law should not only be veterinary but also significantly broader, since the role of veterinarians as guardians of human health is greater than that of treatment. However, on this subject of liberalisation and the withdrawal of the country from this sensitive area in yesterday's Finances was an extremely interesting article, where, for example, a guest from the Netherlands explains the following. Fears of Slovenian veterinarians when abolition of veterinary concessions are not made of vines. As a second EU member, with the exception of Germany, the Netherlands has completely liberalised veterinaryity, and suddenly found no more people wishing to work as veterinarians in the countryside in the north. With both foot-and-mouth disease and swine and chicken fever in the country, they decided not to apply the rules of full competition in such cases, due to the need for rapid and effective action and control. We have to count on cases where we will also have infectious diseases, as we need a lot of firefighters, a lot of doctors just in case, like today in the clinical center, when the epidemic service, the flu pandemic is hard to deal with. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-23-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u48	Thank you very much. My word, Mrs. Žgajner Tavš. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-23-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u49	Thank you so much for saying that. Well, I'm just going to give a brief explanation for my vote. In fact, when I presented the SLS, I received confirmation indicating the availability or power of a certain lobby, which is, in fact, very difficult for me to say other than favoritism in this area. The dissatisfaction of users, which has by the way shown, as I have already mentioned, in the elections to the bodies of the Agricultural Forestry Chamber, is one that in fact dictates the need for change. Part of these changes are, of course, proposed in the amendment of the law that is currently under consideration. I believe that, of course, the government will draw up a new law that will fully regulate the area, but I am afraid that - and I would like to touch here with the opinion of the Director of the Veterinary Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, who has presented the need for radical changes in the basic law, but unfortunately only because of the directives of the European Union and not because of the actual needs and dissatisfaction between, on the one hand, limited service providers and, on the other hand, farmers, users and, of course, the payers of these services. The government has committed itself, this is the government's official opinion on our law to prepare for the radical amendments to the Act by the end of March 2005. I am skeptical and skeptical in the Slovenian National Party, in fact because we are used to such work from the previous mandate, so that by the end of March 2005 this law will really be prepared and will come to the National Assembly. As before, however, I would once again appeal to the government to take into account the changes proposed by the Slovenian National Party, as changes are still necessary, changes are a matter of practice. However, as has already been said, as with other Slovenian National Party Members, I will vote against the decision of the national working body and, of course, that is why [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] for the law. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-23-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u50	Thank you very much. We're voting. Voting adjourned. Of the 77 Members and Members present, 71 to 5. [[The vote was 71.]] [[Against the 5.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the legislative procedure for the bill has therefore been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 6th item of the agenda - this is the case - for the first time, a proposal for a decision amending the decision on the amount of funds belonging to a particular political party from the State budget in 2004 and the second time - on a proposal for a decision on the amount of funds belonging to a particular political party from the State budget in 2005. We are moving on to a decision on the proposals for conclusions. First, on the first proposal for a decision - amending the decision on the amount of resources belonging to each political party from the State budget in 2004. Anybody want to explain their voice? I'm guessing there's no one. We're voting. In the presence of 77 Members and Members, all voted in favour. [[The vote was 77.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the second proposal for a decision on the amount of resources belonging to each political party from the State budget in 2005. Anybody want to explain their voice? I guess not. We're voting. Results of the vote: of the 75 Members and Members present, 74 voted against none. [[The vote was 74.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 8. Period of the day - This is on a defensive proposal for a law on the ratification of the Convention between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Kingdom of the Netherlands on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in connection with taxes on revenue with the Protocol. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. The draft law was examined by the Committee on Foreign Policy and reported in writing to the assembly. Since no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body under the second reading, there is no debate on articles and amendments, so we are moving on to the third reading, that is to decide on the proposal for a law. Anybody want to explain their voice? I guess not. We're voting. 76 Members and Members present, 72 votes against none. [[The vote was 72.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to nine. On behalf of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the French Republic on the avoidance of double taxation in relation to income and property taxes and the prevention of tax evasion with the Protocol. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. The draft law was examined by the Committee on Foreign Policy and reported in writing to the assembly. As no amendment has been adopted by the labour force in the context of the hearing, there is no debate on articles and amendments. That is why we are moving on to the third reading, which is the decision on the proposal for a law. Anybody want to explain their voice? I guess not. We're voting. In the presence of 70 Members and Members, 69 votes against none. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. We're moving on to 10. POINT OF THE DAY’S LINE - ON THE DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE RATIFICATION OF THE WARRANTY TREATY BETWEEN THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA AND THE EUROPEAN INVESTIGATION BANK (Slovenia - CURRENT LINE FOR THE COFINATION OF PROJECTS OF STRUCTURAL FUNDS). The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. The draft law was examined by the Committee on Foreign Policy and reported in writing to the assembly. Since no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body under the second reading, there is no debate on articles and amendments, so we are moving on to the third reading, that is to decide on the proposal for a law. Anybody want to explain their voice? I guess not. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, all of whom voted in favour and none against. [[The vote was 72.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 11. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on the Ratification of the Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and the European Investment Bank (PRIET) The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. The proposal was also addressed by the Committee on Foreign Policy and in writing to the assembly. As no amendment was adopted by the parent working body in the context of the second reading, there is no debate on articles and amendments. That is why we are moving on to the third reading, which is the decision on the proposal for a law. Anybody want to explain their voice? I guess not. We're voting. The vote is closed. All 72 Members and Members present voted in favour. [[The vote was 72.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 12. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - A DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE RATIFICATION OF THE AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA AND THE WORLD MINISTRY OF SERVER AND THE BLACK GROWTH ON DEVELOPMENT COOPERATION. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. The draft law was also addressed by the Committee on Foreign Policy and in writing to the assembly. No amendments were adopted by the parent working body under the second reading and there is therefore no debate on articles and amendments. That is why we are moving on to the third reading, which is the decision on the proposal for a law. Anybody want to explain their voice? I guess not. We're voting. Of the 73 Members present, 72 voted against none. [[The vote was 72.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 13. It's a day's work, mind-blowing. Under this item, the Assembly will consider the proposal by the President of the Republic of Slovenia to elect two candidates for the two seats of members of the Permanent Arbitration Court in The Hague and the proposal for a decision on the appointment of the President and nine members of the Supervisory Fund for the financing of the decommissioning of the Kranj Nuclear Power Plant and the disposal of radioactive waste from the Krška Nuclear Power Plant, a motion for a decision to amend the decision establishing the Telecommunications Council and the request of the Kranj District Public Prosecutor for a permit for the establishment of criminal investigation and prosecution at the Kranj District Court of Justice against the Member of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on individual proposals. First. Proposal by the President of the Republic of Slovenia to elect two candidates for two seats of members of the Permanent Court of Arbitration in The Hague. The President of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Janez Drnovšek, proposed, pursuant to Article 6 of the Law on the Proposal of Candidates from the Republic of Slovenia for Judges of International Courts to the National Assembly, that two seats of members of the Permanent Court of Arbitration in The Hague should be selected by Professor Borut Bohta and Professor Mirjam Škrk. Our meeting is attended by Mrs Divna Potočar, Deputy Secretary-General of the Office of the President of the Republic of Slovenia, and I welcome her very much. The proposal considered the Commission's mandate-holder as the working body of the mother. The Commission's rapporteur wants a word? No, no, no. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr. Mark Pavlich has the floor. He'll present the LDS position. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-23-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u51	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So it is a great honour and pleasure for me to be able, on behalf of the Group of Members, to support my two former professors for such a prestigious candidacy as the arbitration seat at the Permanent Arbitration Court in The Hague. For Professor and Dr. Borut Bohtet, I can say, the age of our international law as well as of international law in the broader sense of the word and of Dr. Mirjam Škrkovo. I will not repeat their rich résumé which is before you, I will not repeat the fact that the President of both candidates has proposed, on the basis of the positive position and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Council of Justice of the Republic of Slovenia, but it must be said that Professor Bohte is a regular professor of international law and also the head of the Department of International Law and the head of the Institute of International Law and International Relations at the Faculty of Law in Ljubljana, that he has participated in the most numerous international projects, has worked on a wide range of similar institutions, such as the permanent arbitral tribunal and committees at international conferences. Since 2000, he has been a conciliator in the Court of Justice for conciliation and arbitration under the OSCE. Of course, the list is still very long. Professor Mirjam Škrk is an outstanding professor of international law at the Faculty of Law of the University of Ljubljana and also a judge of the Constitutional Court. Like Prof. Bohte, she has participated in various international institutions and is also involved and, of course, has also become an international expert in international law. In this regard, on behalf of our Group of Members, I would like to draw attention to the worrying fact of some Members, including in the debates of the Commission on Elections, when the debate and criticism touched on the work of candidate Škrkova in her decision-making function as a Constitutional Judge. We believe that such an argument is inadmissible. Constitutional judges, like other judges and, last but not least, we Members and Members are completely independent of their decision-making. And so that they raise their hand "for" or "against" in some matter, they can't be held responsible. And such an argument, in particular, is a case where the Constitutional Court has suspended the implementation of the Act on closing trade on Sundays and holidays, of course I do not think that Dr Škrkov can be and must not be responsible. That is why I appeal again to those who have expressed this doubt and this criticism that you will reconsider and still support Dr. Skrkovo as an internationally recognised expert. Furthermore, on this occasion, on behalf of our parliamentary group, I would like again to draw attention to the issue of the law on proposing candidates from the Republic of Slovenia for judges of international courts, and I myself have sent a letter, an initiative to the current Minister, Dr Šturm, and agreed with my initiative. Indeed, we probably have the most complicated law in the world concerning such candidates, because we only decide on candidates, and then these candidates either come to the election list with international bodies or, as the case may be, the arbitral tribunal itself, simply wait on this list so that they may, or may never, decide on some matter. So, the law should be simplified, it's probably not us who decide on the candidates themselves, but we could leave it to another body. Last but not least, the position or approach of the government or the departmental ministry to the candidates is sometimes, in my opinion, incorrect. Let's just take the last tender for the International Court of Law of the Sea in Hamburg. On the basis of my initiative, on 7 January, the Ministry issued a public invitation to tender; but the invitation to tender was published in the Official Journal, and none of the potential experts who could run for this prestigious function knew anything about it. So we suggest that in the future, as it once was, we inform potential experts about such calls, at least in both law schools, probably elsewhere. In short, our Group of Members supports both candidates and will vote in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-23-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Mr Miran Potrč, United List of Social Democrats, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-23-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Vice-President, distinguished representative of the President of the State, colleague and colleague! In the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, we will support both Prof. Borut Bohtet and Prof. Mirjam Škrk as a candidate for international arbitration, as proposed. I am taking the floor, not so much as to support both candidates once again, but to reiterate the position I had on behalf of the parliamentary group on the election committee. I would like to point out that there is no doubt that both candidates, therefore also the candidate Prof. Dr. Mirjam Škrk, meet all the professional references. Mrs Mirjam Škrk is an outstanding professor of international law, a judge of the Constitutional Court, a member of the International Legal Association and an arbitrator of the Court of Reconciliation and Arbitration in Ovsa, she is the President of the Society for the United Nations of Slovenia. She participated in Slovenian delegations at the regular session of the General Assembly of the United Nations in New York and its references could also be taken into account. However, in this fact, I will be very direct and will quote, the representative or leader of the New Slovenia Group of Members said that the proposed candidate would not be supported in the New Slovenia Group. The reason is one and very simple: the proposed candidate is a judge of the Constitutional Court. This Constitutional Court, in which she also voted, has suspended the implementation of the trade closure law on Sundays and holidays, and when we reviewed this constitutional decision, we found that Mrs. Mirjam Škrk voted in favour of this constitutional decision, and for this reason, in Novi Slovenija, the position was taken that we cannot support it. I was quoting from a magnetogram. I would just like to remind my colleagues that the Constitutional Court is the highest body of the judiciary for the protection of the constitutionality, legality and human rights and fundamental freedoms and that, in relation to other authorities, it is independent and independent state authority that we do not talk about the fact that the decisions of the Constitutional Court are compulsory. The Constitutional Judges swear to judge by the Constitution and the law and by their conscience and to strive with all their power for constitutionality and legality and for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. I am therefore firmly convinced that any decision that relates to the fact that an individual judge voted in a particular case is extremely inappropriate to object. If they agreed to such criteria and to such an understanding of the rule of law, then the rule of law would no longer exist, then the division of power to the legislative, executive and judicial level would no longer be enforceable, then the independence of the judges in the trial would no longer be lost because the policy would assess which of their judicial decisions would be acceptable to this or another party and which party could or should not therefore be elected to an important international judicial institution. I still have a slight hope that this was a slip-up and a sudden statement, and I hope that Dr. Mirjam Škrk will also receive a great deal of support from all Members in the secret vote. If not, I was obliged to point out this fact to see what the criteria of the ruling coalition are when they think about the elections of those in judicial positions. If a concrete decision, although in accordance with the Constitution and the law, is not such a decision by their will cannot be chosen for an important judicial function in international organisations. Once again, I ask you, colleagues and colleagues, to reconsider, and once again, if this practice, which you begin to implement with this indisputable message, is to be implemented, then your words on the rule of law will be only a great demagogy and a good word, and in fact you will act against this principle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-23-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u54	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Alojz Sok, Nova Slovenija, to the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-23-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u55	Mr President, fellow Members and Members of Parliament! Let me first conclude that there is no controversy in this town in the National Assembly with other parliamentary groups. Comrade Potts, you have the right to say your opinion, but not to continue to dispute with some of the views of the Group of Members, this is, of course, unacceptable, nicely said unacceptable, and of course I must point out that you are no longer doing this in the future. So, in a secret ballot, usually everyone decides as they choose. One particular thing is that we can communicate here in this national assembly in advance how we will vote in secret. And then, of course, someone behind closed doors can do differently than he predicted. But as far as the New Slovenia Group is concerned, we will not support Mrs Mirjam Škrk. The reasons why we will not support it have already been explained by my colleague Potrč, so I do not even need to repeat them again, but it is essentially that she is a constitutional judge - we do not challenge her expertise or challenge her international references and confessions, but we are surprised that, as a constitutional judge, she has helped to vote on the retention of the law that the Slovenian people have clearly stated at the referendum. So, we believe that the referendum is the highest form of direct democracy and not even the Constitutional Court, we are confident that it does not have this task to hold back the decisions that people have made despite the negative campaign that the then government coalition has afforded, people have made up their minds. The law was then adopted by the National Assembly and the law should enter into force on 15 September, so today we are more than half a year after this law has been enacted and the law is still not in force. If the Constitutional Court has so decided, it should also decide to the end, but not to ask merchants and traders when the National Assembly will definitively legislate the will we have given in the referendum. I have to say from this city that the National Assembly did this; the National Assembly has passed this willfully, but the Constitutional Court has concluded the matter in its own way. Well, those are the reasons. I'm not getting into any other business. The said judge also participated in the drafting of the maritime code, which established, or at that time, that Slovenia was, in some way, among the disadvantaged countries that do not have access to the high seas. So all these are the reasons why we have made the decision, as I have announced on behalf of the Group of Members, nevertheless, I would say, to the great calls of my fellow Member, Mr Potsch, let us change our minds. Well, we won't change our minds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-23-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u56	Thank you very much. There were no applications for discussion. We are moving on to the vote. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 7 of the Law proposing candidates from the Republic of Slovenia for judges of international courts on the election, the State Assembly shall decide by secret ballot. In accordance with the first paragraph of Rule 92 of the Rules of Procedure, a secret vote shall be held by the committee composed of the Presidents and four Members elected by the National Assembly. I have already received proposals from the parliamentary groups for the members of the committee leading the vote. These are: Mr. Franz Jazbec [[SDS]] Mr Rudolf Moge [[LDS]] Mr. Aurelio Yuri [[ZLSD]] and Mr Martin Mikolič [[NSI]] . I am also a member of this Commission as Chairman. Does anyone object? I guess not. We are moving on to a decision on the proposed composition of the Commission. We're voting. I note that out of 71 Members and Members voted in favour of 71. [[The vote was 71.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the commission in the proposed composition has been elected. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, two votes shall be delivered to the Members by each Member to the Chair's table and by their name and surname. It shall be voted on by surrounding the word "yes" or "against". In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 91 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the unfulfilled vote shall be invalid and the vote shall also be invalid, by which the Member's will shall not be clearly indicated. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 7 of the Law proposing candidates from the Republic of Slovenia for judges of international courts, each proposed candidate will be elected if a "yes" majority of all Members vote, that is 46 or more. We will vote in the Chamber in the voting booths. The Members and Members will place the completed votes in the ballot box, which will be at the table next to the voting booths. We are moving on to a secret ballot. I ask Members of Parliament to assist me in the vote to report immediately to room 217, where we will take over the electoral material. The vote will begin at 12.40 p.m. and will last until 12.55 p.m. After the vote, I ask Members who will assist me in the vote to meet in room 217. We'll continue the session at 1:10 p.m. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-23-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u57	Dear Members and Members! We're continuing our session. We continue with the suspension of the 13a point, these are the elections of two candidates for two places as a member of the permanent arbitration court in The Hague. I'll read you the minutes of the election. Minutes on the outcome of the vote for candidate for member of the Permanent Court of Arbitration in The Hague. The vote was held at the premises of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on 23 February 2005. 76 ballots were distributed, 76 votes were cast, no votes invalid, 76 votes valid. "For" was voted by 34 Members, "against" was voted by 42 Members. On the basis of the outcome of the vote, a candidate for a permanent arbitration tribunal in The Hague, Dr Mirjam Škrk, was not elected by the majority vote of all Members. Minutes on the outcome of the vote for a member of the Permanent Court of Arbitration in The Hague. The vote was held at the premises of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on 23 February 2005. 76 ballots were distributed, 76 votes were cast, no votes invalid, 76 votes valid. "For" was voted by 73 Members, "against" was voted 3. On the basis of the outcome of the vote, by a majority of the votes of all Members, he was elected as a candidate for a member of the Permanent Court of Arbitration in The Hague, Dr Borut Bohte. Since Dr Mirjam Škrk's candidate did not receive a sufficient number of votes, new elections will be held on the basis of new candidates. We move to 13b point - a proposal for a decision on the appointment of the President and nine members of the Supervisory Committee of the Fund for the Financing of the Decommissioning of the Krška Nuclear Power Plant and the disposal of radioactive waste from the Krško Nuclear Power Plant. The proposal for a decision was submitted by a mandate-holder committee for consideration by the assembly. The Commission's rapporteur wants a word? [[No, no, ……]] I give the floor to the representative of the LDS Group, Mr Anderlich, to present the position.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-23-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u58	In fact, I am embarrassed that it is after this transitional point that I should properly present my position, given that the lustration of an unheard type has been carried out during the last period of parliamentary democracy in Slovenia. But we need to move on, and it is likely that the public will decide what happened. Nuclear security is so important that it is dealt with by the parliaments of most countries, international institutions and also civil society cross-border and supra-nationally, if I may say so. Here, in this case, we are talking about an institution, an institution that is still important for how the issue of the storage and disposal of nuclear waste will be addressed in Slovenia in the future. And according to the law, it is undeniable that the State Assembly is the one who elects to appoint a supervisory authority. It should therefore be pointed out, of course, that the National Assembly, as a whole, is in charge of overseeing the functioning of this Fund. It does not seem appropriate for us that the ruling coalition has embarked on this body's composition in such a way that it has failed to take account of the structural representation in the National Assembly, given the number of representations of Members of the individual parliamentary group or the results achieved in the elections. This is not the supervisory authority to which the government appoints its representatives and, as provided, the opposition has been arbitrarily waived by a third of the representatives in these bodies, whether a party agrees or not, I think from the opposition, and proposes its representatives to this composition. But it's a body that's sort of in the National Assembly, and it has to reflect the composition of the National Assembly. 70:30 is not the right relationship, I'm talking about the law on a landfill for radioactive waste from the Krško Nuclear Power Plant. In 2000, when the Supervisory Board was appointed, the 60:40 composition was in favour of the position and so the structure in the National Assembly was also approximately composed. In order to illustrate this fact, when the National Assembly appoints its representatives to some supervisory authorities, how important it is that the reflected composition achieved in the elections is illustrated by the fact that when the SLS left its position in 2004, no one has ever thought of going to change the structure of the Supervisory Board. Since it seemed reasonable to us, in our opinion, that if it is the one who controls or elects it, it is proposed to this body that, such as the positional relationship in the National Assembly, the political ratio of forces, this committee should also be composed. Thus, in the previous mandate of this Supervisory Committee, the opposition had a strong majority since the SLS was no longer in government. The composition was as follows: LDS had three representatives, SLS had three, SDS had one, SKD one, the United List of One and the Hungarian National Community of One or Representatives of National Communities. However, if we look at the current composition and we see that this principle is simply not respected, this provision of the law is simply not respected. Speaking of the current composition, it is necessary to say that the parliamentary groups have proposed fourteen candidates and one candidate for president of this committee. It seemed to us, on our own, that the largest parliamentary group was proposing a candidate for president, so we did not even propose our own, and in this way we allowed the largest parliamentary group to participate with the President and the rest with the members of that supervisory body. It is true, however, that in this third, as is now popular to say, which is arbitrarily directed to the opposition, the structure is not adequately represented by the number of members of the individual parliamentary group. It is obvious here that LDS is not represented by an appropriate percentage. I myself know that it is impossible at one point, in one decision to make an appropriate percentage. I believe that, as part of further appointments, this can be done, for example, and that this position will also be taken into account when choosing candidates. But at this point it is clear that this composition is not appropriate. I am more interested in this matter, which is called the attitude of the opposition, or the composition that results in the relationship between the parliamentary groups here. However, as regards the appointment of the Chairman of the Supervisory Committee, it is, of course, as is the case with all the proposed members or those who are supposed to be composed of this Supervisory Committee, we have considered that it would be reasonable and right that such a body, such as this, is composed primarily, regardless of the fact that parliamentary groups propose that people who have so far proven themselves in certain areas relating to the specific work of the Supervisory Board should be proposed. And in this context, I would also like to express my regret that the SDS Group has proposed a candidate for the President of this gentleman, who is proposed, namely Mr Kelemino. In the past mandate, Mr Kelemina led an investigative commission in the field of energy, electricity trading, close enough to the area we are talking about and has not proven to be. Moreover, they have earned three serious objections and have also filed lawsuits for embezzlement of facts, unfounded charges against individuals. I don't know if the charges are gonna happen or not, but the fact is, it was. Whether you agree or not, look at all the records, see what was being heard in the national assembly and in the public. If that is so, it is strong enough to make such a appointment, that someone is loud enough to be able or even strong enough to convince everyone else, then perhaps. But me and our Group believe that other arguments need to be taken into account in particular. Nor will it be good for the work of this Supervisory Committee if such methods continue. Because of both the inadequate composition in our opinion and the regret of such a proposal for the President, the Liberal Democracy Club will not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-23-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u59	Thank you very much. There are no applications for discussion. We therefore move on to a decision on the proposal for a decision appointing a President and nine members [[...]] [[ad from the bench.]] Please. [[..]] Do you have a procedural question? I repeat, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the appointment of a President and nine members of the Supervisory Board of the Fund for the Financing of the Decommissioning of the Krška Nuclear Power Plant and the disposal of radioactive waste from the Krška Nuclear Power Plant. Anyone want an explanation of the voice? Please. Mr. Sušnik, Mr. Rugelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-23-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u60	Thank you very much, Mr President. I will vote in favour of the proposal for a decision appointing the President and the nine members of the Supervisory Committee of the Fund for the Financing of the Decommissioning of Nuclear Krko and the disposal of radioactive waste from the Krška Nuclear Power Plant, because I am convinced that this proposal of the decision brings in and in the field of the appointment of supervisory authorities a new wind, a new spirit, contrary to established practice, which has clearly prevented the representation of opposition Members in appointing individual institutions to supervisory committees and supervisory councils. I would like to draw attention to the fact that there is a complete record of the representation of opposition members in similar appointments in the previous term, showing a very sad picture, contrary to the proposal of this Decision, where it is fully established, I stress, fully established, the principle of the opposition's third representation, which we could only dream of in the previous term. I would call upon all those who think otherwise to look at this record and to see for themselves the actual state of appointment. On behalf of the parliamentary group, I would also like to point out that, as a result, we also requested that this third principle be applied as one of the conditions for implementing democratic decision-making in Slovenia. Unfortunately, we have never been heard in these demands. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the composition is exactly in line with our requirements and is the ratio of position and opposition 30 to 70, which is the most we could have wanted as an opposition party and what we have also written and offered in the programme of operation of this coalition. And we will take this commitment into account in the appointment of these supervisory authorities in future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-23-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mr Rugelj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-23-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u62	Thank you, President. Dear Members and Members! I myself will support the proposal of a mandate-holder commission, in particular the proposal for the Chairman of this Supervisory Committee, Branka Kelemino, because I know that he is a good man, an honest man and that he will be able to handle this money. As far as this commission of inquiry is concerned, I can only say that Branko was the only one in this country who could show citizens how we exported electricity for less than 3 tolars per kilo hour, while for all domestics in this country our love is much more expensive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-23-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u63	Thank you very much. I ask again, does anyone else want to explain their voice? Mr Anderlič, Mrs Possonec, Mr Školč, Mrs Širca, Mr Jerovšek, Mr Sok, Mr Gaber, Mr Rupar, Mr Cvikl and Mr Saiovic. The first one has the word, Mr. Anderlich. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-23-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u64	I've said before that I will vote against it. The fact is that when a national assembly is appointed by a supervisory authority, it means that, as a whole, it represents what I say, a proposed base in the political power ratio in Parliament, not in the relationship reflected in another area, namely the position-opposition, the government-opposition. Which means, given what's on the agenda today, the ratio should be at least 60:40, because otherwise these numbers do not work out, not 70:30. And now it's 70:30, whether you want to admit it or not. And four years ago, when we named the same body in the National Assembly, the position-position ratio was 60:40, although the position was then more than that percentage. But because it was, however, that the National Assembly is the one who recruits, so to speak, according to its diversity, the composition of what the relationship is, then this relationship is roughly defined in this way. Otherwise, as I have already said, at the end of her term, the opposition had a majority in this supervisory committee when the SLS went to the opposition. These are the facts, here are the numbers, I can't tell you anything else. And all the other regrets, and I don't know what was in the previous term, are superfluous. I said I'd go against it, and I insist on data.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-23-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mrs. Possonec has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-23-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u66	Thank you very much. I will vote against this decision, first of all because of territorial division. Slovenia reaches the Hungarian border, not Maribor. That's one. Second. 70:30, there's no nationality around. Who's gonna give us one place if you split it up like that? The opposition probably can't get 30% of that, and then the positional parties should give one place of nationality, even if you've already divided it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-23-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mr. Skull, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-23-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u68	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It has been said here that this appointment introduces a new wind, a new approach, that it is some consistent third-party representation of the opposition. I would add that the position also enforces a literally new shock fist. Mr. Kelemina is known for having, I'll say, a strong fist. What worries me about these appointments is that it is really a powerful political domination of knowledge. If we look at the previous vote, which was a secret, where Professor Škrkova did not receive support because of a position she expressed where she had to express it, we pay here or the coalition pays people who strongly assert their positions. I will vote against this because I think this is the only way for the public to be able to draw attention to this new wind that is coming.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-23-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mrs. Shirca, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-23-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u70	With all that has already been said, I can add another interpretation of these new winds that we are facing today and obviously in the future. I ask myself, with all that has been said, how will Mr Kelemina, the construction technician and the handyman, or the gentleman of hard fists, be able to chair a body composed of a doctor of technical sciences, a doctor of technical sciences, a graduate electrical engineering engineer, a master of information science, a doctor of technical sciences, a pensioner, a graduate university professor of biology, etc. Of course, in all political appointments, it is also appropriate to point out the inexplicability that is also reflected in the profiles of the person who will lead this body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-23-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-23-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u72	Thank you very much. I think we have reached one of the lowest levels of parliamentary debate, because my predecessors spoke mainly in the language of boxing and in boxing there are mostly illegal blows under the belt. We've been paid at the expense of our former colleague for many such blows. I resent that, given that the candidate for the President of this Supervisory Council, Mr Kelemina, was one of the most capable, most conscientious Members of Parliament in two mandates, and I believe that you were ashamed that you were real lilyputians against him, as far as I am concerned, and I am told by a Member of the expertise that Dr. Grossman and Ljutomer transplanted in Prekmurje two days ago and talked about Prekmurje, talking about expertise, and there is something unheard of about being considered a cultural and shadow minister. That's why I don't put anything in such expertise. With such expertise, to underestimate the work of Mr Kelemin, who has been extremely effective here as Chairman of the Commission of Inquiry. All the members of the commission of inquiry from that position did not have the floor to speak against the report of that investigative commission because it was so precisely done, nor did they object. That's not what you're talking about. Mr Kelemina is guaranteeing that the funds that are used and treated in this manner in a fair and transparent manner will be used. And that colds you in the eyes, your own interests, your interests are deprived, and also nowhere in the previous mandate in Eles has the opposition had its own member, now it has it, and also in many other important supervisory councils. Instead of admitting this fact, you're telling the untruths about expertise. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-23-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u73	Thank you very much. A warning that applies to several debaters: please explain your voice, do not discuss, but explain your voice. We're moving on. Mr. Sok, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-23-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u74	Thank you very much. We will, of course, support this proposal for a decision. But that is so, Mr President, it is difficult just to explain the voice of these challenges that we are hearing here. It must be said that only one has applied for the posts of President, Branko Kelemina. If the Liberal Democracy had proposed someone as president, then I would have understood this debate in some way, and thus opposed the only candidate and all those colleagues who had been in the previous term and the previous term, to knowing well that Branko Kelemina was one of the Members who was a large garage, that the report had drawn up that the National Assembly of Reports, in its composition as it was, did not want to be accepted. And we discussed the report. Finally, it was not accepted and you know that you could not accept it, because it was burdensome for those who sold electricity as much as was already said today. However, as regards the composition of the other members, it is indeed necessary here, as President Kviaza said, to see how the supervisory authorities were drawn up in this National Assembly when he chaired this body, Comrade Školč. This should be considered and, of course, determined how this matter went. As far as New Slovenia is concerned, we had only two supervisory authorities appointed on this State Committee their representatives. One of these was this ten-member or president plus a nine-member control team for funds collected for decommissioning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-23-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mr. Gaber.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-23-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u76	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen. I myself will vote against the appointment of this Supervisory Committee in protest against the fraud we are witnessing here today. Perhaps we could talk about a new wind in a positive sense and something else, if it were not for a very clear vote before that shows that this new wind is a very simple new wind. This is indeed a new wind, a wind of misdirection and rejection of qualified people for certain functions and setting up those who do not have qualifications, at least not appropriate, for this area.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-23-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr. Rupar. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-23-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues! I, too, will support this proposal. The arguments, the essential arguments and the only correct ones, said Comrade Sok, so I will not repeat them. I'd only say so much that it's a political decision. From now on or from now on, I'll tell you how much time we vote for people in this National Assembly. There have always been, as I know how to work and the function of the National Assembly, in this National Assembly, political decisions made by the majority, whatever they were. Is it true that since last year's election, there's only so much expertise in the first place. Take a look at what you have supported in the previous term and do not now make excuses for professionalism, if, to this day, it has not been the first condition. The first condition was that it belonged to a political option. Why are you changing your mind now? And another essential element of why I will support this proposal. 'Cause of Silva Nigga. 'Cause of Silva Nigga. She was our colleague. I think she was in the United List, the lady is a librarian, and I am sure that in her profession she has read so many books on the financing of various funds and on the decommissioning of nuclear power plants, that it is actually very fair to support her. And after all, she's the only woman. But of course, because I am one of the members of the committee who is fighting for the same opportunity, I am even more pleased that Silva has gained her place here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-23-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr. Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-23-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u80	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Looks like there's been a new wind. This new wind is even so far away that it is publicly stated that against someone or a lady who voted in favour of a well-known constitutional decision in the Constitutional Court will be voted against. Of course, I don't deny the ruling coalition that it has the right to propose [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-23-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u81	Please, please, if you'll take my previous warning and discuss [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-23-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u82	President of the Supervisory Board, but I would like to say that this is the Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the Nuclear Power Plant Fund, that it is not someone who will be involved in such or otherwise loading of funds, but that it will be good for this gentleman and these ladies and gentlemen to know the basics of ensuring that when it is necessary to dismantle the nuclear power plant, there will be enough money in this fund. [[...]] It is therefore a shame that only so-called political officials are proposed here. It is a matter of doubt that the construction technician knows a few basic rules on the charging of funds and ensuring adequate returns that this money will still be where it is supposed to be at the end of this mandate. That is why, of course, I will not support the proposal that has been put forward, but, above all, I will not support it because it is not only that we have begun to announce the lustration of experts, as has been said to the Constitutional Commission, but in the previous vote you have also performed this lustration of the expert. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-23-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u83	Thank you very much. I don't think I'm wrong if he's still a magician. The fairowice in turn as the last to explain the votes.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-23-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u84	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I'll vote against it. One well - known said that history was written by the winners, but of course, it was by those who won the elections honestly and rightly. However, in all these matters, one principle of objectivity or some democratic minimum standards must be taken into account. And it is this wind, to which I, today, oppose this decision, that I fear. I come from the middle, where we have 42% locally in the municipal world, but we don't have two mandates in the supervisory world, and we can't get one person in public institutions and much more. Such a wind, which lays down basic democratic principles, is dangerous for everyone, left and right, for everyone in this room. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-23-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u85	Thank you very much. I've got a list full of it. We're voting. The vote is closed. Of the 75 Members and Members present, 54 votes against 19. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against 19.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. We are moving on to a proposal for a decision amending the decision establishing the Telecommunication Council. The proposal for a decree was submitted by a mandate-holder commission for consideration by the assembly. The Commission's rapporteur wants a word? [[No, no, ……]] I give the floor to the representative of the LDS Group of Members, Dr Paul Gantar, to present the position.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-23-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u86	The LDS Group will support that proposal for a decision amending the decree. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-23-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u87	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision amending the decision establishing a Council for Telecommunications. Anybody want to explain their voice? I'm guessing there's no one. We're voting. The vote is closed. Of the 75 Members and Members present, 67 voted against one. [[The vote was 67.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. We are moving on to the last case - to deal with the request of the District Attorney's Office of Kranj for permission to institute criminal investigation and prosecution before the District Court in Kranj against the Member of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, Paul Rupar. The request was referred to the District State Prosecutor's Office of Kranj for consideration of the assembly. The request was addressed by the Commission’s mandate-holder as the working body and submitted a proposal for a decision to the assembly. The Commission's rapporteur wants a word? Here you go, Mr. Sušnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-23-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Dear Members and Members, honourable President! At its 5th meeting, on 10 February 2005, the Council of State Council of the Republic of Slovenia considered a notification from the District Attorney's Office of Kranj that it intended to request the imposition of a criminal procedure before the District Court in Kranj against Member Paul Rupar. For this reason, she wanted an answer to the question whether or not the Member, Mr Paul Rupar, would recognise immunity from the State. To avoid any confusion, I would like to make it clear and loudly that Mr Pavel Rupar did not refer to immunity, which he also announced when he excused his participation in the meeting of the Commission on Elections. I would also like to point out that, having regard to this fact, the Commission, acting unanimously, has adopted a proposal for a decision proposing to the National Assembly that a Member of immunity should not be recognised. Once again, the proposal for a decision not to grant a Member immunity has been adopted unanimously by the Election Commission of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-23-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u89	Thank you, Mr. Sušnik. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 207 of the Rules of Procedure, there is no debate on immunity matters, so we are moving to a decision on the proposal for a decision, namely: the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, pursuant to Article 83(3) of the Constitution of Slovenia and Article 22, paragraph 1, of the Law on Members concerning the request of the District Attorney General's Office of Kranj, of 13.1.2005, concerning the intention to request the imposition of a criminal investigation before the District Court in Kranj against the Member of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia of Mr Paul Rupar, in the direction of the six offences of the abuse of an official position under paragraph 261 of the Criminal Code, the six criminal offences of a violation of a commercial instrument, pursuant to paragraph 240 of the Criminal Code, the second paragraph of Article 240 of the Criminal Code and the criminal offence of Article 141 of the Criminal Code of the Criminal Code. We're voting. 62 Members and Members present. The proposed decision was voted 61 I would like to ask you kindly if you are so attentive that I read the outcome of the vote. [[...]] I'll do it again. Of the 62 Members and Members present, 61 voted in favour of the proposed decision against no one. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. I hereby conclude this agenda item and at the same time conclude the 3rd meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
