ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen. I am opening the 2nd meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, convened pursuant to Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Your Honor! On 3 January 2005, Franz Potočnik, a delegate of the Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for the period 1990-1992, died a Member of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for the period 1992-1994 and 1996-2000. We'll honor his memory with a minute of silence. Let's keep it in our good memory. I was informed that they were detained and that today's meeting could not be attended by the following Member and Members: Anton Anderlič, Roberto Battelli, Joseph Jerovšek, Darja Lavtijar Bebler, Milan Petek, Mag. Majda Travel until 3 p.m., Matjaž Švagan, Villa Trofenik for the start of the session. I have invited the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Janez Janša, to the 1st item, representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, representatives of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia at the 3rd, 4th and 6th points, representatives of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia at the 7th and 8th points, and representatives of the Council of Justice at the 12th item of the agenda. We are moving on to the agenda of the 2nd meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The draft agenda is drawn up in accordance with Rule 59 of the Rules of Procedure and received by reference to the meeting on 14 January 2005. The draft agenda will be decided in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I have not received any proposals for the withdrawal of an item from the agenda or for the extension of the agenda. I therefore propose to the assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda, as you have received by reference. We're voting. Anyone have a procedural proposal? Mrs. Shirca.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u2	Thank you very much. [[...]] [[The microphone is not on.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u3	Mr. Skull, can you please turn it off?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u4	Thank you very much. Mr President, last week or in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the LDS Group has forwarded a list of questions to be asked at today's meeting. Just before the meeting, I noticed that my name is not on the list of Members and Members who have been registered. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, in short, 240th, 241, 242nd and 243rd paragraphs, I have raised the question of the matter of correspondence, as set out in the Rules of Procedure, and I expected that I would be able to raise the question at the meeting of the National Assembly as well, but as is evident from the list, my name and my Member's question are not on the record. The Rules of Procedure provide for only two exceptions where the President of the National Assembly may act differently than the Rules of Procedure may order him to reject the oral question and invite the Member to, at least so now, practice has been put in place if the issue is not drawn up in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, in short, to be concise and to express the content that must be visible. All of this has been raised by my question to the Minister of Justice, but as I see it, you are the first President of the National Assembly to have rejected, in accordance with the new Rules of Procedure, the question raised in due time and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I ask you, if I would also expect you to correct your conduct and to this session or to include the question referred to next. After all, as a Member, I have the right and duty and the Institute of Parliamentary Affairs is to clarify certain issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u5	Mrs. Shirca, time's up, please. In addition, you took advantage of the possibility of a procedural proposal, this was not a procedural proposal, it was a question to which time will be answered at other points, we are talking about a agenda. Anyone else have a procedural proposal? But please don't abuse these institutions! Thank you very much. We're moving to the vote. Mr Pece, I warn you, only as a procedural proposal. About the agenda. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u6	On behalf of the Group of Members, if permitted, I would like to state before the vote an explanation of the vote of the Members of the Slovenian National Party on the agenda as a whole.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u7	Me, please. The explanation for the vote, then.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u8	Dearly represented, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members, as you probably know, the National Party has introduced a consumer law into the procedure aimed exclusively at promoting a bilingual economy, i.e. in an area where the Italian and Hungarian national minorities also live. According to our assessment, the law which was envisaged for the said, that is to say today, the meeting of the National Assembly would allow for economic development - on the other hand. On the first hand, it would allow, in particular, what we want and what we are probably weighing on all 90 Members, this is the ability to be competitively able and even more prosperous during this period of entry into the framework of the European Union. In the Slovenian National Party, given the fact that the parent body, the Committee on the Economy, and some other interested working bodies of the National Assembly and the governments of the Republic of Slovenia have given a negative position in terms of waiting for the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, we will not confirm the agenda, but we will abstain in deciding how to press the button on the agenda. We estimate that the National Assembly has made a huge mistake not to include in today's session the consideration of the item on the agenda "consumer law within the Republic of Slovenia". We expect that, next time, the National Assembly, as a legislative body, will not be bound by the adoption of laws to the decisions of the Constitutional Court, once it has been brought to a standstill. I must also point out that, in the framework of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, we are assessing that the legislative branch of the authorities, i.e. the National Assembly, is doing great harm to the Slovenian economy. This is the only reason why Members of the Slovenian National Party today will be abstaining when the agenda is adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u9	Mr Pece, allow me to warn you, as well as all others who will continue to discuss or explain their vote in this regard: you had the opportunity to propose an extension of the agenda by the Rules of Procedure, but you did not; you had the opportunity to request the inclusion of a specific item on the agenda as a member of the group and I should not reject it, it would be classified. Now, of course, with such explanations of vote against me, it is surprising that you do not know the rules of procedure already in force in the previous term in the new term. Mr. Squeakl, perhaps an explanation for the voice?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u10	Mr President, I would like you to put on the agenda item 1, what has been tabled in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, all questions raised by the LDS. In the material, you have deleted a document, list, 24.1.2005, one of the questions sent in contravention of the Rules of Procedure. And in procedural terms, I would like you to include under point 1 all the questions raised by the LDS. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u11	Mr Cvikl, again: it was possible to propose an extension of the agenda by 12.00 yesterday. Does anyone else have a proposal, or does he want to explain his voice? Mr. Squeakle, you've already spoken. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u12	Thank you for your word. We did not say in the Slovenian National Party that we will not support the agenda, we will simply abstain. I would also like to say that, in view of the practice that has been in place over the past four years and does not appear to be changing, all the working bodies have been identified by the law referred to by Mr Sašo Peče and the government has given its opinion. In such a way that the law would be applicable to this meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u13	When the college decided on this law, it had not yet been prepared for consideration at a meeting of the National Assembly; however, it could be proposed when it was or when it will be. Anyone else want to explain their voice? Mr. Pavlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u14	Mr President, with all due respect, how should our Group object to the agenda or request a supplement if we only learned a few hours ago that Mrs Shirce's question is not on the agenda? And I have to point out here again, also as a lawyer, that there is absolutely no legal basis for rejecting the question referred on the basis of Article 240, in particular the third paragraph, because the question referred was a short, concise and clear question; its content can only be decided by the addressee, in which case [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u15	Mr Pavliha, we are not talking about an individual Member's question, we will talk about it when this item is on the agenda and then I will answer it. Now we're talking about the agenda. And I ask that we be so disciplined and follow the procedure. We're moving to the vote. We're voting for the agenda. It's breaking up. Mr. Lakhovnik. Let me ask you one last time if anyone else wants to explain their voice. At the meeting, it was agreed to be called twice and not four times. This time I call for a fourth or a fifth time, or someone else wants to explain their voice. If not, the last person who wants to explain is Mr. Lakhovnik. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u16	The questions on the agenda today are referred under item 1. Given that, Mr President, you have arbitrarily excluded the question of Mrs Majda Shirca's fellow Member, I will vote against the agenda because it does not reflect either what is in the Rules of Procedure or what we Members are going to do. I think that it is the right of every Member and Member to ask the question of a Member and that it is not the right of the President of the National Assembly to review these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u17	Thank you, Mr. Lakhovnik. We are now going to the vote. We're voting for the agenda. The vote is under way. There are 74 Members and Members present. 54 votes against 11. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against 11.]] The agenda is adopted. Before we move to the 1st item of the agenda at 3 p.m., I invite you to take a look at the exhibition prepared by the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. Due to the lack of space, the exhibition is also located on the higher floor in the upper lobby, and I would like to point out that after the end of tomorrow's debate, expert leadership will be available through the exhibition, so I am inviting you to attend tomorrow after the meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u18	Dear Members and honourable Members, representatives of the government! We are continuing the meeting of the National Assembly. We're moving on to one. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - QUESTIONS FROM THE MISSIONS AND THE CONCERNERS. In view of the fact that several questions or questions have been raised concerning this item of the agenda, namely why the question of Ambassador Majda Shirca has not been included in the list of issues, I must point out that the question has been raised by the Minister of Justice in relation to the specific conduct of the court. The question even asked the Minister to identify himself and comment on the judgment. I don't think the Minister can or can't, and I'd be smiling if he made a comment on the court's decision. As a result, I have not listed this issue on the list of issues. There were quite a few questions that were not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and we have received all the questions that we, as such, have received on Friday, an hour or two after we received them, have sent them back to the parliamentary groups or have alerted the secretaries of the parliamentary groups or the leaders of the parliamentary groups to correct them in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. This has been done by everyone, including some LDS members, who have been warned and corrected by the leader, the secretary of the parliamentary group. Mrs Shirca did not correct the issue, although she had two days until 12 noon yesterday. Let me point out once again that similar things would not have happened: Rule 240 of the Rules of Procedure states that the question or initiative in the field of government or individual ministry or government service must be a question sent. This is a substantive requirement. However, the formal requirement is in the same article, in the third paragraph: "The question or initiative must be short and concise and expressed in such a way that their content is clear." Ladies and gentlemen, if they do not comply with this Article, I will reject them and politely ask you to complete them or correct them. And also with regard to the obvious why there is no consumer protection law on the agenda. During that time, I checked the Magnography of the Economics Committee. In fact, I only mentioned that the committee did not address this point and that, as a result of this point, it was thus not mature for a meeting of the National Assembly. The magnetogram says that Srečko Friend is said to be a member of the SNS, quoted as saying: "On behalf of the Slovenian National Party, I would like to propose that the proposed proposal withdraws or withdraws the law to the legislative decision of the Constitutional Court; postpone, deal with until then. On a proposal from the Slovenian National Party Member, the Committee did not consider this law and is therefore not included on the agenda. So much for the explanation and continue with this item on the agenda. There's no debate on my explanation. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received written notifications from 31 Members and Members within the time limit. The order of business shall be laid down on the basis of an agreement with the heads of the parliamentary groups and in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 245 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The first three questions raised by members of the opposition and the Member of the ruling coalition's question to the Member of Parliament will be answered by the Prime Minister. Members who have asked two questions will ask the second question after all the Members who are registered ask one question. Members shall have 3 minutes to ask the question. The Prime Minister, the Minister or the Secretary-General of the Government shall reply to the question within 5 minutes, as well as if the question is raised by the larger ministers. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask an additional question. I ask Members to pay attention to this. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be presented by the Member within 2 minutes and the reply may be completed for a maximum period of 3 minutes. On this point, Mrs Marija Lukačič, Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, apologised for today. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised, the Prime Minister, the Minister and the Secretary-General must provide him with a written reply within 30 days, which will be published in the bulletin of the National Assembly. A Member who has asked a question that has not been answered may indicate that he insists on an oral answer. In this case, we will place the issue at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. You have received a review of the questions sent and initiatives which have not yet been answered in the course of business. We are moving on to a presentation of the questions sent. As has already been said, the first four questions will be answered by Prime Minister Janez Janša. Mr. Pavliha, do you have a procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u19	Article 69, you did not give me the floor when I called, but I would have spoken on behalf of our Group of Members on the violation of the Rules of Procedure. In our opinion, you are the first President to violate the right of a Member or a Member to raise a public question in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, which is in fact a fundamental constitutional institution for [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u20	Mr. Pavliha, do you have a procedural proposal? [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u21	The procedural proposal is to place this issue on the agenda under this item. And if I may say so, you have the option of rejecting the Rules of Procedure only in two cases, the first is if the question of a Member is not short and clearly raised and of course it is not timely. And second of all, it's local. If you refer to paragraph 240, first paragraph, which states that the question in the field of action must be [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u22	Mr. Pavliha, please make a procedural proposal [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u23	In fact, can I finish? [[...]] [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u24	Yeah.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u25	You're taking the right of a reviewer. [[...]] With all due respect, Mr President, you cannot know the areas of operation of all ministries, then, if your thesis claims, we can never ask the Minister of Transport only a question, because in most cases this issue is related to environmental issues, i.e. the issue of the Minister of Environment. Therefore, we count and ask that this, and we demand that our question be placed at today's meeting or at the next meeting on the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u26	Thank you for finishing Mr. Pavlich. The first question will be asked by Mr Anton Rop to the Prime Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u27	Mr. Prime Minister, the ministerial assembly is warmly welcomed. Let me also regret, of course, that Mr President of the National Assembly does not allow Members and Members to ask the questions they wish to ask. This has really not happened in democratic Slovenia, this is the first time we have dealt with such censorship, and I am really sorry that this has happened. Mr Prime Minister, if you don't mind, I would like to ask you one question, which is about taking over the euro in Slovenia. In your statements and performances recently, you have repeatedly stressed how important it is for Slovenia to take over the euro and that this is also one of the key objectives and priorities of your government. Of course, I welcome this and I think that this is a good and real goal and a real priority and, as I have pointed out many times before, we will also support all that is needed to achieve this goal in Slovenia. This is the basis for stable macroeconomic development and progress. Of course, this means, at the same time, that perhaps some of the provisions and some of the promises in your coalition contract will be written down, perhaps for the next term, but this is not the subject of my question. I would like to ask you myself about some of the claims you have repeated several times, which concern the necessity of carrying out deindexation in Slovenia, which has not yet been implemented or prepared, and therefore this government, which is here before us, will have to prepare a specific project of deindexation of transfers in Slovenia. This is a very important issue concerning every citizen, every citizen, and it is still important for prosperity in Slovenia, so of course, Mr Prime Minister, I am asking you a very simple question. I believe you're serious about deindexation, if you've mentioned it so many times, and so I'm interested in exactly: De-declaration of which transfers or social transfers will you propose and when will you come to the National Assembly with these proposals? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u28	Thank you, Mr. Rope. Please, Mr. President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u29	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Member, in fact, meeting the conditions for taking over the euro with the introduction of the European currency in Slovenia is also one of the objectives of this government, the objectives which it has inherited. Nevertheless, in my opening speech before this high-level assembly last year, I have said that it seems to us that this is a good goal and that we will try to continue with those economic policies that have so far contributed to meeting the conditions and where things have not been well set, to complement things. In view of your particular question, I should say that, when we were transferred to some ministries, we have come to know that the so-called deindexation of the social transfers you are talking about, or the restructuring of social transfers, as we might call it after the domestic social reform or the reform of social transfers, has already been planned by the government in the previous mandate you led, and that this reform has in some way been taken into account in the preparation of the 2004 and 2005 budget. We have also been informed that the 2005 budget is ready and also adopted, it is said, the budget in force, on the basis of the assumption that the government will be in office by the end of the 2004 mandate, that the government, which is no longer in fact, has proposed these measures and that the State Assembly will also adopt them. Part of these measures have been prepared, we are studying this, very far away, I must say that the cases have not been brought forward, only at the end of the previous mandate has the former Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs come to work on a single register of social transfers, at this point it is impossible to say how many different addresses a person receives from different social transfers, it is said, not even a basic record has been set up, despite the technology given in the 21st century; and after all this has been done - and we expect this to be done as soon as possible - we will actually try to make up for this delay. It's hard to say anything about specific percentages or indices right now, in fact, I should ask you this, given the situation we've been given. However, I can say that none of these transfers or any of these measures will go through at least attempts at coordination in the Economic and Social Council. We agreed on this at the first meeting of this body, it is said that it will not be just one, as is sometimes heard, a harsh interference with the rights acquired, but will first be made a realistic assessment and determine where the reserves are; and that these reserves almost certainly exist, has already been established in the previous mandate, which is why these uniform records have been established. Given that a broader issue has been raised, let me add that the government is implementing accelerated all the preparations needed to meet the nominal, convergence criteria for taking over the euro - from this point of view is the sharpest walnut, as you know, the reduction in inflation - and that they are moving forward and in particular the technical preparations for taking over the euro; the work is continued by the Convention Group or the Committee jointly led by the representative of the Government and the representative of the Bank of Slovenia. The possibility of a double price display already being introduced in the middle of this year and other technical procedures are under way. Slovenians have experience in currency exchange since 1991, and I am sure that as far as technology is concerned, we will also succeed this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u30	Thank you, Mr. President. Yes, Mr. Rop, would you like an additional explanation? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u31	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Prime Minister, of course, you did not answer the question I asked. You said that, of course, you'd be studying things and that you'd be doing an analysis and that you should actually ask me in terms of the situation you've been given. And you've already talked a lot about the state and that's why we need this indexation you've been talking about. Therefore, it might be useful to point out that we have already carried out this indexation in ZIPR for most transfers. This ZIPRO has been adopted and de-indexation has therefore been carried out. Deindexation is not limited to two important segments. And that's why, of course, it's good to know what we're talking about when we're talking about deindexation. Firstly, we have not performed deindexations on monetary social assistance, on the poorest. That is why I asked you if you would like to work with the poorest Slovenian citizens and citizens in these deindexations, then it would be good for you to make this public. These are those who receive a cash social assistance of 46,000 - maximum. Of course, I don't believe you're going to go with deindex in this area, and so deindexation is probably not going to work on this segment. So why are you talking about deindexation? And the key indexation is happening and will continue to take place in the largest transfers that exist in Slovenia. These are pension transfers. That's where the biggest indexation is. And there, through the existing system, indexing is carried out on the basis of prices and partly on the basis of wages. And you promise on the basis of prices and wages. It's called double indexation. So I am interested in deindexation in this context - transfers are also pensions - how and what you plan to do in the case of the law of Mr Žnidaršič, which proposes double indexation in pensions. So you will introduce additional indexation in pensions, which of course is fine, and it is entirely possible, and what you will then do [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] with the first objective you mentioned and mentioned that indexation should be carried out. [[...]] So, these two together, more than obviously, can't work.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u32	Thank you. Mr. President. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u33	Thank you for that additional question. I just have to say that I've never talked about deindexing the lowest social transfers - at any time. Even when it comes to pensions, it was very clear when the coalition agreement was signed that this was not enough to burden the euro. However, if that were the case, then the coalition partners committed themselves in a special addendum to wait or to meet the criteria for taking the euro with absolute priority by implementing some of the objectives of the Coalition Treaty. This is signed at the end of all the key objectives of the Coalition Treaty. And the government will act in accordance with this priority and commitment. In any case, these promises are substantially smaller than those of the 150 thousand additional pensions your client made before the elections. The financial impact of the implementation of this promise would only threaten the state budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u34	Thank you. Second, Mr Miran Potrč will ask the Prime Minister a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President! At the election of your government, Slovenia met three of the four convergence criteria for taking over the euro. The public financial deficit was 2.1% of the gross domestic product at a criterion of 3%, a public debt of 29.4% and approximately half of the requirements, the foreign exchange rate was stabilised and the interest rates were harmonised in the long term. Inflation has been declining throughout the mandate, economic growth has been higher than in the 15 countries and the registered unemployment rate has been lowest in the last 10 years. From the current work of the government and ministers, the Strategic Economic Council and its members, it is not clear to what extent further activities of the government to take over the euro will be carried out. The Minister of Finance and the Strategic Council initially advocated the freezing of tax reform and subsequently proposed only a substantial reduction in capital income tax. First of all, the Minister of Labour, through the Regulation on the level of payments relating to work without consulting the trade unions, initiated a policy of tightening the belt and reducing the social security of workers. When the government found out it was a mistake, as Prime Minister, you generously promised new coordination. In the previous term, the current coalition has reported to the government that it is corrupt, and now that it is in power, it may even abolish the anti-corruption commission itself. At a time when many economic sectors and workers in them will face a new wave of forgiveness, instead of helping these companies to restructure production and retain jobs, the Government's commitment to facilitate workers' forgiveness, liberal labour legislation, the abolition of minimum wage and collective bargaining is only on an entrepreneurial level. Despite the repeated proposals made by the municipalities to form a consultative body to assess proposals for decisions affecting the situation of local communities, they do not yet have a response from you. All these contradictions do not provide us with assurance of the government's actual future policy, so I ask you: Whether the government will take into account the already established policy of social dialogue and involve the interested and involved public in its decisions or will continue to lead a policy that actually takes decisions primarily for the benefit of the richest at the expense of the most vulnerable [[...]] [[End warning sign]] population? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u36	Thank you, Mr. Run. Mr President of the Government has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u37	Thank you very much, Mr Member, for a few questions. The first was already announced under the name of Mr Rope, but I am pleased to answer no matter what. In fact, in my opening speech, I also said the same thing as what criteria Slovenia meets for taking over the euro and which it does not meet. You may have forgotten to mention a stable course, but we will complete this at the end of our stay in this waiting room. Inflation is not as negligible a problem as they say. Much remains to be done, especially given that the inflation rate in the three countries of the European monetary Union has been decreasing with the lowest inflation rate recently and is significantly lower than in Slovenia's decision to start meeting the criteria for taking over the euro. With regard to the measures being taken, let me say that most of those relating to the so-called deindexation have already been harmonised within the mandate of the previous Government within the framework of the Economic and Social Council. The Social Agreement has been signed and is in force by the end of this year, and this government will respect it, but the social partners have agreed in this agreement to defend a policy that will enable Slovenia to meet these criteria. Nor is the new government doing absolutely nothing else in this sense, and there is no fear that a different policy will suddenly prevail here, because we are all aware that, without any broad consensus, at least some of these measures are practically impossible to achieve. It is also particularly important here to coordinate with regard to wage policy, which is in this year's social agreement, for example, at least roughly well-ordered. With regard to the apparent fact that the Government itself has adopted a regulation on the reimbursement of labour-related costs, this is a procedure that has been inherited. Negotiations on this Regulation began, if I am not mistaken, in August or September last year. The negotiators of the former government did not agree on this regulation. The Regulation had to be adopted in order to get things sorted with effect from 1 January so that the costs associated with work, diaries, travel costs could be paid and so on. An agreement was then reached at the first meeting of the Economic and Social Council to allow coordination to continue. If there is agreement on possible changes and if it really turns out that someone has been unjustifiably disadvantaged, there will be changes. But so far only one such discount of 22 tolars has been placed on the table, which is not much. Thus, the key purpose of this Regulation, which has gone from indices to establishing nominal amounts, is simply to meet the conditions for sufficient stability to take over the euro. With regard to social dialogue, which you end up asking or asking some statements that do not. I think that the last meeting was the first in such a composition of the Economic and Social Council to prove that things are not going this way as they are trying to push. We are aware of the importance of social dialogue in other reforms that will still be needed in this country - we will have to negotiate absolutely! It is not true that the government has taken some measures that go in favour of the richest layers, while the poorest are deprived - far from it! Also, this argument, which is usually cited and which you probably thought today, is that the government reduced the tax or capital profit tax by 50%, as it had previously been adopted quickly, speaks contrary to this claim. For only those who have transferred this capital have benefited from the transfer of capital abroad, the poorest, but perhaps without the work that they are counting on new programmes, to new jobs and so on, and with the help of this capital they will receive nothing. In order to be more rational, more balanced at the time, this escape would be reduced and there would be more investment resources for more jobs. And we know who it's good for.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u38	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Potts, do you want an additional explanation? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr President, I would be grateful if you would complete the answer to those two statements that you have not commented on. In view of the possible demand for the abolition of the Anti-Corruption Commission, as I asked, and the following: What do you think, as Prime Minister, regarding the claims made by some members of the Economic and Social Council, to facilitate workers' forgiveness, to ensure more liberal labour legislation for the benefit of businesses and employees, to abolish the minimum wage system and from now on only to introduce collective agreements at the corporate level, which is certainly more difficult from the point of view of employees because they have a smaller impact on the content of these contracts? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u40	Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u41	I have said in public several times that neither the government nor I personally, as Prime Minister, will be defined by the articles written by those who advise or advise the government. In this mandate, for the first time this country has met with an approach that is common in developed countries, we have set up advisory bodies, which have also been envisaged in previous compositions, which shed light on a particular problem, give specific advice, the government will then identify, follow these advices, add other dimensions or do not take them into account. Within these strategic councils, once established, there are members who think differently. These are the bodies that do not vote, which do not propose some harmonised positions or measures, but are the bodies that try to propose what they think is best for the economic development of the country in this particular case. If there are several different proposals, there are several different opinions on government, but these are not decision-makers and it would make no sense if the government were already predetermined to do something that you might think someone wanted to say in some comment. The government will be defined in terms of the proposals we are about to receive, but the programmes of these strategic councils are already drawn up in such a way that these authorities advise the government on the basis of the programme that is ready to be implemented, especially when it comes to substantive or systemic or structural reforms. As far as the Anti-Corruption Commission is concerned, the government has not yet decided on this. The government is committed to a coalition treaty, which states that we will strive to make the fight against corruption significantly more effective than it has been before. My personal position, which I have said about this speaker last year, when this law was passed, is that this commission was not set up to fight corruption more effectively, but vice versa; on the basis of the famous Churchill principle "if you do not want to do anything, set up a commission" - we know when this proposal came into being - we know what the powers are; in short, it is a body that is toothless, which, depending on its structure and composition, can give - and also gives - politically motivated comments, collects data that can be misused in any way or other, consists of people who have been shown to them by the Court to date that they have abused their powers. In this regard, the government will consider very carefully once it has also made an international comparison, how to ensure that the fight against corruption is effectively effective. Not by setting up another commission that will require another 100 million or 200 million budget [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u42	Mr. President, please finish.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u43	the means, but so that the authorities which are in charge of the fact that it actually works are responsible after the stop. [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u44	Thank you. The next Prime Minister will be asked a question by Mr Winning Jelinčič Nobleni. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u45	Thank you very much. It is a question of bullying the company Radiol from Kostabon with a demographically threatened area by the tax administration Koper and, after all, the humiliation by the Ukrainian prosecution directly by prosecutor Sevšek Romana. In fact, I asked Mr Bayuk for the first time on this matter when he promised to check and settle the matter, but then there was a switch. The tax authorities in Cyprus did not take into account the Ministry’s mandatory instructions on the application of Article 64 of the Law on the Profit of Legal Persons, or did not take them into account - they took them into account in 90% when it came to friendships, but in some cases they were not friendly. We've moved on here, we've accused criminally designated people from the tax administration of the Koper prosecution - they didn't do anything. We have asked the Minister, then the Attorney General, to carry out - she has done nothing as a minister or as a prosecutor, and I hope that this matter will change - to be rectified. Of course, there is another matter in connection with this. In fact, in the Slovenian National Party, it is our view that it would be reasonable to check the work of two state officials by the Corruption Commission, since it is a matter of destroying Slovenian national interest, it is two representatives from the Competition Office, Mr Plahutnik and Mrs Menžič Dajano, who, in the opinion of the Slovenian National Party, are working in contravention of Slovenia's interests. In fact, the State of Slovenia may, because of their misinterpretation or their misinterpretation - I will not go down, why this interpretation so - at best, loses only €170 million, in the worst case, €350 million, of which, of course, Senica's lawyer from Vega, who sued Mobitel received 20% of the ransom, is about €25 million and €70 million directly in his pocket. I don't know how it's possible for a government official to work against the interests of his own country, because if Vega wins, we know that only according to the suspicious decisions of certain officials, each Slovenian or citizen of Slovenia will pay around 40,000 tolars out of his own pocket.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u46	Thank you, Mr. Jelinčich. Please, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u47	Thank you very much for this question or for a number of related questions. It is true that you have asked this first question, which relates to payment or relief for this company, in 2000. It's been a while. On the basis of what they prepared in the tax administration, the procedure was corrected. As you say, the case was also in the Supreme Court. Last October, it was decided that the complainant was partially favoured. What comes out of this judgment and possibly refers to state authorities will, of course, be fulfilled. However, I can also say that this group, which is now working to assess tax legislation, which will prepare measures or proposals for possible changes and additions to look at, not this particular case, but legislation related to this, has proposed any amendments, and in particular proposals that will ensure that there will be no, not in any other case, non-counselling legislation. With regard to the continuation of this issue related to specific names, I must say that I am hearing them for the first time. They were not mentioned in these questions, so anything concrete could be difficult to answer or accuse anyone in advance. As regards Vega's action against the State or the alleged action, the government will respond by the end of this month. The matter is not as simple as it may seem at first sight and cannot be reduced to some personal relationship and relationship. The government will do everything to protect, not the budget, but those who contribute to this budget are Slovenian taxpayers. And I partly agree with you that such behaviour would also be expected from all the other Slovenian citizens who had here, at least after what I know, sometimes a very ambitious role.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u48	Thank you. Yes, Mr. Jelinčič, would you like an additional explanation? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Well, as far as Radiol is concerned, I thank you for this, especially when you mentioned this new commission, because I hope that this commission will also review solutions, certain solutions or solutions for backwardness and also revise inappropriate decisions. Because, on the basis of inappropriate decisions, there have also been a number of "breaks" in the Slovenian economic space. In addition, it will also deal with the criminal charges brought against an unknown offender in the tax administration of Koper for infringement of equality under Article 141(1) and Article 261(3) and the criminal offence of abuse of an official position or official rights under Article 261(3). However, as for the second part, it is clear that I could not have predicted this in the question, because only recently did I get this documentation, a summary of the relevant facts of the Competition Protection Office of 18.1. where, say, Mr Strautnik uses very oddly as some of the valid arguments of what has been published in certain officers and similar cases and refers to various recommendations from the EU in 1996, while we have long since entered the EU and are subject to other matters, while this recommendation from 1996 no longer applies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u50	The president won't answer. The last question will be put to the Prime Minister, Mr Zammernik. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u51	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The question is based on Rule 242 of the Rules of Procedure, paragraph 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. Today was a press conference of the Minister of Finance, and already in the past there have been many public references that this press conference has in some ways confirmed the double appreciation of the Insurance Company Triglav. According to one evaluation, which was to be carried out in 2001 and carried out by one audit house, the value of this insurance company would be "circa" 250 million euros - a large number, which then - I think - from the second audit house in 2003 - was estimated at almost 100% more; it is said that almost 500 million euros. Given that the Republic of Slovenia is a majority or 85% of the owners of this insurance company through the Slovenian compensation company and through the capital company, I ask the Prime Minister: Are you aware of this? Who introduced you to this? Do the references hold you? If they hold these statements, I ask you to explain: How will the Government of the Republic of Slovenia take action to prevent damage to those who are, or in some way have, paid the entire period of payment to this insurance company on the basis of such lower estimated value? And: How will the government act against the administration if it has allowed the sale of shares at almost 100% lower value? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u52	Thank you, Mr. Zammernik. Please, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u53	Thank you for asking. These data you provide are also relatively new to me. If I am not mistaken, the Minister of Finance, who is responsible to the government for this area, has obtained the relevant documentation only this weekend. It actually shows that it was made last year and I think that the new valuation of the Triglav Insurance Company was completed in mid-August last year. On the basis of the legislation, the State is directly or indirectly the owner of the majority. On the basis of the legislation adopted years ago in the previous mandate, certain shares were also sold, notably by Slovenian compensation companies, and these shares were sold on the basis of the 2001 valuation. The sales process was fully under way or was practically fully started at the time of this second valuation. For the time being, it is not explained why the insurance administration of Triglav has not informed its owners that it is running an institution that is once more valuable after the new valuation and that it is the price at which it sells its own shares. It's a very unusual matter. It is true that the law states that the sale shares on the basis of the 2001 valuation are formally fine from this salary. However, the conduct of any administration to discover that half-price shares are being sold is controversial if it does not inform its owners at least. Whether the previous government has been informed of this or not - I don't know. Whether previous administrations and supervisory authorities of the capital and compensation companies have been informed of this or not - I don't know. However, I can argue that the new government was not informed that the finance minister needed quite a few weeks before he was able to convince the administration to forward this information to him; that we have witnessed a tragic situation when this valuation was hidden from the owner and that the matter needs to be examined. According to the first data, as far as these estimates are concerned - personally I have not seen this second valuation - it is a risk that the budget is damaged by 14.15 billion Slovenian tolars, as the finance minister of the public said today. The government will try to act in such a way as to protect the interests of the owners, in which case they are all citizens of this country, and will also initiate appropriate liability procedures if it turns out that such damage is actually the case. The matter is extremely characteristic of some times, which we all believed were already over in Slovenia. Once again, it is a suspicion of damage to common property by at least 14.15 billion Slovenian Tolars, which is a large sum, significantly greater than those reported by the new government, that it will have to pay them due to the coalition contract for that part that speaks of the increase in pensions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u54	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Zammernik wants an additional explanation. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u55	Thank you very much. The question was also: How will the government act if these 14.15 billion, as you said, are exposed to damage caused by the administration? How can we act against the causes of this? Is it still possible to repair this damage if it is caused, in any way, and how?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u56	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u57	A definitive answer to this question cannot be given today. As it is said, this documentation has yet to be obtained formally, because of the hiding place in me for incomprehensible reasons. There will be a need to examine not only the financial but also the legal aspects of the whole story and then the government will take action in accordance with the legal basis. Here I expect, even though I may be overly optimistic, a single desire in this high choir to actually protect the interests of taxpayers. The legislation on the basis of which this has happened has been adopted in this national assembly, I think it is a common duty that it is not just a government here that has to do something. It is very possible that some legislation will have to be amended or adopted quickly, and it is also strange that in certain public newspapers, in newspapers, this story was opened weeks ago, and although it was clear that this information existed somewhere, the administration was not prepared to hand over this documentation to the owner representative, which is the government or state institution. So once again, I can say that we will do everything possible in this given situation to protect the public interest, what exactly, given the late acquisition of documentation on this issue - I find it very difficult to say. And once again, I'm counting on this not to be taken as a government project that reveals some of the bodies of the previous authorities in the closet, but to concentrate on how to repair the damage - if that's even possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u58	Thank you, Mr. President. We turn to questions addressed to individual ministers. Mrs. Shirca, do you have a procedural proposal? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u59	Mr President, of course I have protested before, because you have failed to comply with my request to comply with the rules of procedure and to include my question of procedure, but I am now protesting that you have classified as the fourth question which has not been announced. If you refer, under this right, to Article 242 of Mr Zammernik, to Article 242, it is said that undeclared issues may be notified, even after the time limit allowed, in the case of urgent matters, I must protest because this question was not so necessary. These "trumpets", which the President has just talked about, are already known from the past, but not a day old, as the answer itself suggested. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u60	Mr Zammernik mentioned the information that only came to the public this week. We continue the debate, namely, to the Minister of Transport Magi. Janez Bozič will ask the question of Dr. Mark Pavlich. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u61	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Prime Minister, distinguished ministers, dear fellow Member and Members. As early as this year, we had to face a host of problems that fall within the field of transport policy. The first blood tax claimed by roads, the problem of the third pier in the port of Koper, the construction of the second track and could still be listed. But there's no traffic policy. Therefore, my question is: Why did the Minister of Transport and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia decide that the transport policy adopted by the previous government in July was withdrawn from the procedure, and that the domestic and foreign professional public considered it very good, if not excellent? In addition, I would like to ask the Minister to explain - and now I also quote the explanation of this withdrawal - where exactly the text of the proposal needs to be reasoned or reviewed, assessed and supplemented. Let me remind the Minister that in several places, on several occasions, for example during the hearing, the transport policy is also a good starting point for his work, and I quote, for example, "the basis for action in the field of transport policy in this mandate will be the transport policy adopted by the European Union, in the transport policy for Slovenia, we can only define and operationalise these general orientations". The transport policy adopted by the former government was fully in line with the European transport policy; and more so: it was upgraded and extended in time until 2020. The minister also said, quote: "In any case, I know the document that I have been able to read these days, and I can say that this is an extremely good basis for us to accept it as soon as possible in the procedure with the necessary modifications." Finally, this transport policy has been voiced very positively by the State Council. However, I myself said at the hearing that the withdrawal of this document from the procedure would mean a return at least 10 years ago where Slovenia was. Finally, the Minister's statement at the first meeting of the Transport Committee is interesting when he said that the preparation of transport policy is a strategic theme of the new government and that the Committee should have it in the second quarter of this year. Is it not true that this was also a strategic theme for the former governments, at least or especially during my ministry? And at this point, of course, there is doubt or hypothesis that the government will make only a few cosmetic adjustments, and then it will reveal to the world its [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] "straight work" or his own authorship. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u62	Thank you, Mr. Pavlich. Please, Minister Christmas, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u63	Mr President, honourable Members and Members. Commissioner, thank you for the question that, of course, raises the important issue of the ministry I am leading. In my presentation to the competent transport committee, I have made it very clear that the transport policy will be at the heart of my work, because only a balanced, prudent and sometimes bold transport policy can ensure optimal coordination of the functioning of all transport systems in the country and thus the lowest possible costs, both for passenger and freight transport. Not only has it been proven, after the repositories have been taken over, that it would be prudent to set the main objectives of the director in this mandate through transport policy, but it is clear, of course, that we want to complement the transport policy and, above all, to make it more concrete and more operational. In addition, we have found that in some parts the motion for a resolution does not fully comply with or follow European transport policy. In view of the fact that Mr Member and Vice-President of the National Assembly wanted to make very specific remarks, allow me to mention two things. The Slovenian Resolution on Transport Policy defines the objective of paying infrastructure costs as a principle: the user pays. That is true, but European transport policy is more precise in this regard and defines the marginal social cost method as the target method for charging infrastructure costs. This means, of course, that the objective is to pay infrastructure according to the costs incurred at a time when a user enters the infrastructure and starts to use it. Although this method is very complex, the European Commission is already implementing a number of measures to bring this method closer. New talks on the so-called euro wine directive, which is a very unfortunate designation for the toll directive, are going this way. In this way, the EU, as a whole and with it Slovenia, will approach the 'Patiot Social Optimism', which says that resources in society are optimally distributed and provide the highest possible common prosperity. Increasing the well-being of the people of the EU and Slovenia is our common goal. Notwithstanding this method, it also ensures the optimal burden on users, only up to the amount of the so-called 'Piggot Tax', which states that taxation is only reasonable to the extent to which the use or investment of funds through the state budget increases prosperity more than increases the well-being of consumption or investment of taxpayers. Increasing the well-being of the population is the goal of both this government and the ministry I run. However, the second example I would like to mention is that in the area of public transport development, the proponents did not take into account the 'Moring effect'. This says that increasing public transport passengers has positive effects on all existing and future users. Simplification: The point is that increasing the number of users increases the number of cost-effective public transport lines, improving the overall service of the system, attracting new users. The mechanism also works in the opposite direction and that is what we have witnessed in Slovenia in the last decade. Less passengers mean fewer lines, which further reduces the number of passengers. I have given this very clear warning at the presentation and we intend to improve the quality of the public system on the basis of the "Moring effect". However, the Ministry's task is to ensure an initial positive trend so that the number of public transport trips increases, increasing the quality of the system as a whole, which will attract more and more passengers to the public transport system, making the system more profitable. On the other hand, when the model is introduced, the charging of infrastructure will be less interesting in personal transport, as drivers will pay more of the costs that are now incurred and passed on to all taxpayers. Finally, let me just say that "Moring's effect" in the transport policy proposal prepared by the previous government is not mentioned at all. That is why we have decided to complete the document, extend it and shrink it, if necessary, so that we will finally have a document that will actually guide our work. I believe that my predecessor will not deny me this right, but, of course, these data on the Transport Committee hold on to the very programme for the preparation of this document in the National Assembly for adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u64	Thank you, Minister Christmas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u65	Thank you for your word and thank you, Mr. Minister. I only believe that all these comments could be taken into account on the Transport Committee and then when adopting the resolution, but that it would not be too complicated, but I would only ask the Minister if he could further explain it. So: In which part will transport policy be better and thank God it will be better if it is better, and in writing it will explain and send it before the resolution runs to the home committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u66	Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u67	Mr Member, it is with great pleasure that we give this supplement or an additional explanation in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u68	Otherwise, I would point out that oral answers to oral questions are provided under the Rules of Procedure. Now, if, of course, the Minister agrees to such an initiative and intervenes in writing, it is a sign of good will, but it is not due. Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Mr Samo Bevk, Minister of Public Administration Dr Gregor Virant.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u69	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A well-respected choir. On the basis of the findings that many jobs, including leading, are occupied by people with a forged diploma, the question is how many of these people are. It is worrisome that this also happened in the public administration and that this was found only by chance when they examined the employee's documentation because it was proposed for advancement. The chief of the administrative unit also told the media, an article from the Evening on 20 January this year, that this case has made them more cautious. On the basis of this event, Minister Virant asks: can we expect him to initiate a procedure to verify the diplomas of all employees in the state administration? Given that you are in favour of, Mr Minister, the High Professional Administration and have also sought to draw up a law on civil servants, I believe that this procedure would be adjusted to all public servants or employees who have actually graduated and who are in the same position when they are employed for job vacancies and advancements within the state administration. It is also a worrying finding by the Secretary-General of the University of Maribor, Boštjan Brumn, that "the diplomas of the University of Maribor for Counterfeiting are more efficacious" - the end of the quote, the article from Del on 14 January this year, entitled Naivnezi and forgeries. I am aware, however, that it is not only the diplomas of university and higher education programmes that are questionable, but also the evidence of the completion of secondary education programmes. While the Ministry is preparing a new management system for human resources, in which data on education will also be available - I hope to check - but it is not until once in 2006. I therefore believe that this procedure should be launched immediately and completed within 6 months and that the users of administrative services should be provided with highly qualified personnel. Thank you very much for your answer, Dr. Virant.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u70	Thank you, Mr. Bevk. Please, Mr. Virant.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u71	Thank you very much, Mr. Bevk. In fact, two cases, one of both years ago, have been found in the public administration more than by chance, a case of falsification of diplomas or invalid diplomas. In both cases, a criminal complaint was also followed by the competent educational institution. In fact, we have already considered, on the basis of these facts or events, how to act to ensure that the employment of people with forged diplomas does not occur. The practice so far was that we trusted people at work or that we trusted the values of the original or photocopy of the diploma or certificate required for each job. The measures we are considering are as follows. Firstly, in each new job for the selected candidate, i.e. only for the one we end up choosing as a job, at the educational institution with which he holds a diploma, we are asked to inform us whether the actual data from the diploma is consistent with their data. For all existing employees, however, we intend to carry out checks, but not all at once, so gradually, so that we do not now leave the school system with these checks or inquiries. We will begin by checking all employees at the Ministry of Public Administration, including the Secretary of State and the Minister, and then gradually and gradually, we will also go to check for everyone else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u72	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Bevk wants an additional explanation? [[No, no, ……]] Mr Dragutin Mate, Minister of the Interior, will ask the question of mag. Tomaž Strabe. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u73	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear High Council! Quick question: When will the ministry or government remove motor vehicle stickers? This concerns about about a million 100,000 motor vehicles or their owners, which we need to install each year stickers with holes and data stored in the Ministry of the Interior's computers. I also ask the question on behalf of all those computer scientists and those who advocate an information society, or that we do not introduce solutions that are actually a mockery of the information society and a big step backwards when we have and are equipped with computers. Of course, this also means financial consequences for motor vehicle owners of about 3 billion tolars. I also ask: What will and will be the financial consequences for the country? What are the financial implications for the label-printing operator and for those providing the services of these stickers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u74	Thank you, Mr. Stebeth. Mr. Minister Mate, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u75	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you for the question, Mr Member. First of all, I would like to inform you that we have recently received quite a few questions from citizens regarding the removal of stickers; there are many proposals. The Ministry's professional services are intensively examining all these proposals, with a view to eliminating, to the greatest extent and to the extent possible, the bureaucratic obstacles encountered in relation to these labels, and in particular to reducing the costs for citizens in this regard. At the same time, I can inform you that the Ministry has already acceded to the proposal to amend the Road Safety Act to eliminate this label. As regards the financial implications for the country. At the price of paying for this sticker paid by citizens, the state has nothing, so the state does not receive any money from the price paid by citizens. The companies that make these stickers for the citizens who want to get the part that citizens pay, I think it's now about 300 tolars and the rest is paid to the manufacturer of these stickers. So that the financial implications of the label itself will not have any deficit or deficit in the budget, while the producer will, of course, have the consequences of adopting these changes in the national council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u76	Thank you, Minister. Mr Davorin Terčon will next ask the Minister for Defence, Mr Karl Erjavac. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u77	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Secretary. Slovenia has taken over the chairmanship of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe since 1 January 2005. At your proposal at the meeting on 6 January 2005, the Government dismissed the Director of the Security and Intelligence Service of the Ministry of Defence. Also before that, on 23.12.2004, you took away all the powers. Dear Mr. Secretary. Although I understand your right and desire to set up your leadership team, I ask you: Is it not unusual that in the period when we took over the presidency of an organization that also cares for security, the government replaces the head of the intelligence and security service and seeks another, new name? Does this mean that the role of this service in our country's security policy-making processes so far has not been good, or has it not been sufficient, and therefore this replacement has to be carried out so quickly and with immediate withdrawal of powers? With such exchanges, in particular in such a way that the service in the future will not have a director with full powers for some time, both the service and the state in providing security in our new environment of the European Union and NATO will not acquire a reputation or a role. I ask for your answer or comment, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u78	Thank you, Mr. Tarchoon. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u79	Thank you for your word. Dear Member. Let me say that I have actually proposed, in accordance with the law, the discharge of the current Director of Security and Intelligence. The law gives this opportunity for the Minister to propose such a discharge within three months without any reason. Since I want to form a leadership group as a minister, I've decided to use this option. It's just that I have a program, and those who want to implement this program are part of this team. Let me say that I did not have any comments on the work of the current Director of the Intelligence and Security Service, but given that it is a sensitive place, and given that he has served this function for four years during Mr Grisold's ministry, it seems appropriate that I am now forming a narrow management group when I take up the ministerial function. Let me say that it is not correct that the Director should be deprived of his powers on 23 July. 12. but he lost those powers the day he was released from government; that is, on 6 January. It's true that the media brought such news, but it doesn't. At that time, until 6.1., the Director signed all the documents and continued to be the Director of this Intelligence and Security Service. I think it's a democratic process, and I think it's even appropriate that someone isn't there. However, I must say that the Director has certain merit in the sense that he has withdrawn the daily policy in the field of the work of the Intelligence and Security Service, and I also hope that the new Director will be successful in this regard. The fear that we will not have a director of the intelligence and security service for a long time is superfluous because I will soon propose a new director to be appointed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u80	Thank you, Minister. Does Mr. Tercheon want an extra request? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u81	Well, Minister, you yourself have commented on what I have already stated, of course, that the law gives you all the opportunity to make such a replacement. It is, of course, a matter of hygiene in the year when we are chairing an international organisation for security and cooperation to withdraw the Director in such a sensitive area. In addition, I can conclude that in your reply, Mr Minister, you have not given any professional reasons for discharge. I also agree with you that the work of the Director so far has been correct and that he has withdrawn policy from such a sensitive area. I also apologize for the misrepresentation that followed the information in the press, as you yourself have noted. But according to my findings as well as you, Mr. Minister, I can only conclude that he has prevailed in your decision or that the only criterion was political, not professional. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u82	Thank you, Mr. Tarchoon. Here you go, Mr. Erjavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u83	The chairing of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation and the direction of the Intelligence and Security Service has only this together, so that the shortcuts are similar, the OPCW, and there is an OSCE, which has no more in common. Regarding expertise, see here, I said that I would like to form an effective team that will be willing to defend the programme that I have prepared; it is my personal decision that the law allows me and I do not see any policy in this, unless you think that it is a policy in terms of leading the Ministry of Defence. I agree with that - it is politics.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u84	Thank you, Minister. Mr Janko Weber will ask the Minister for Environment and Space Janez Podobnik. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u85	Thank you for your word, Mr. President, and a nice greeting to everyone. Dear Mr. Secretary! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has adopted a regulation amending the Regulation on the methodology for the design of rents in non-profit dwellings and the criteria and procedure for the enforcement of subsidised leases, which deleted Article 20 of the Regulation, which states that the reduced rent that housing owners were allowed to charge to the social beneficiaries is increasing gradually. So it is the government's decision to raise the rent in a single amount and, of course, 1.1.2005. The consequences of such - in my view drastic - decisions will be felt mainly by social beneficiaries, as well as by other tenants, as the rent will suddenly increase from 1.1.2005 from 100 to 200%. I therefore ask the Minister: Why has the government decided to delete an article which provides for a gradual increase in reduced rents to the social beneficiaries? And above all: What will be the consequences of this decision? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u86	Thank you, Mr. Weber. Mr. Secretary has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u87	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Member Weber. The housing law has unified non-profit rents at the level of cost rents, determined the maximum permitted rate for non-profit renters to charge to renters. This decision, i.e. amendments to the Regulation, will increase the rent on average by around 22% in two years. And this is the largest number of tenants, according to our estimate, about 80% of the tenants. Some renters will even be reduced, estimated at 15%. It should be pointed out, however, that the housing law itself has determined the gradual harmonisation of rents by the end of 2006. And the government regulation you are asking me about has regulated this process in Articles 19 and 20. Now answer your question. Even in some municipalities, when they began to move on to a new system of rent subsidies, at the end of last year, they met up with a question of what rate of rent was taken into account by the tenants who were the beneficiaries of the reduced rents by the end of 2004. In the event that the rate under Article 20 of the Regulation, i.e. the lower rate, would be taken into account, many tenants would fall out of the right to rent subsidies due to the lower rent rate. The right to subsidies depends on income, type of household and their property situation, as well as the amount of rent. In other words, higher rent under the same other circumstances means that the lessee is entitled to payment of the subsidised rent. This is also part of the country's social policy in the housing sector. Some congregations, many of them, also took the initiative to draw on Article 20. In fact, the deletion of Article 20 in most cases also means less workload for municipalities, since most of the tenants will already enter the subsidy beneficiaries under Article 19 of the Regulation, and this is indicated by the applications already submitted by the tenants. The government decided to delete Article 20 in particular for the purposes of equal treatment of all tenants, both those who received the subsidy by the end of 2004, and those who would exercise that right in January 2005. This follows the principle of equal treatment of all tenants. All tenants who will meet the conditions for obtaining the subsidy in January 2005 will be able to apply it under Article 19 of the Regulation. Even up to 80% of a suitable apartment. It should be noted that your question particularly points out that tenants, social beneficiaries, pay the exact same amount of rent as they would if they did not delete it in order to delete Article 20. The deletion of Article 20 also means the elimination of the unequal position for the owners of the apartments that these tenants would have met, since the owners have so far received a difference to the full rent from the municipalities, and after the new difference they no longer receive. tenants who would no longer be eligible for subsidised rent at the beginning of next year will, as a result, pay a higher rent due to the deletion of Article 20; here you are right. However, most of them will benefit from the subsidy, if not immediately, due to the payment of rents under Article 19, due to the higher rate of rent, and on 30 June 2005 due to the gradual increase in rents. Let me finish. Article 20 would provide less rent to tenants for only two years, since this is a transitional provision that would approach the single rent in the country every six months. And one of the objectives of the housing law was the introduction of a single non-profit rent, which was also advocated by the Constitutional Court when it examined non-profit rents. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u88	Thank you, Minister. Is there a request for a Member to complete the reply? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u89	Thanks again for saying that. So, I believe that the government wants to align the situation of all the owners of the apartments in particular; the question of whether this will achieve the equalisation of tenants. But I would believe that this equation can only be made at the expense of the congregations. The increased prices for tenants will certainly give rise to the need for additional subsidies, as was also evident from the reply, which means that municipal budgets will be burdened more than they would otherwise be, on the day of 1.1.2005. However, the Regulation thus far envisaged that this would take place gradually until 2006, so that too some issues could be reconciled in advance and, above all, address the issue of providing additional funds to municipalities due to a large number of subsidies. In fact, the municipalities will have to provide additional resources in their budgets, and if the state commits certain obligations to the municipalities, it must also provide resources to do so. And in this case, I find that's not the case. Am I wrong, Minister?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u90	Thank you, Mr. Weber. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u91	Allow me to briefly explain at the second appearance of Mr Vebra. With regard to the situation of the congregations, I must say that before this decision we have also discussed in detail with Dr. Zhagar and his team, and in part your assessments are correct. There is something else I would like to say about the congregations themselves. Article 20 deletion was also necessary, in cooperation with representatives of both associations of municipalities, because of the uniform adjustment of the computer program for the calculation of subsidies resulting from very difficult calculations [[The basis for this is, of course, the law and the regulation itself]] the municipalities were actually expected. And this was launched in December 2004 in all municipalities in the country, as it was necessary to issue new decisions for tenants eligible for subsidies in December last year. Your question, Mr Weber, also touches on the strategic issue of how to proceed in this area. In the area of subsidies that have been re-organized by the Housing Law, I will assess and examine fully all the consequences of the amended legislation. In the coming months, we will - according to the data I have - already know these first data on the implementation of the new system of rent subsidy - any decision on greater assistance to tenants. In this area, however, it cannot be regulated by amending or supplementing the methodology regulation, but as a former Member, I am well aware that this is an intervention in the housing law, which clearly sets the entry price for recipients of subsidies. We will also talk about these issues in the government once we have prepared a new housing programme. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u92	Thank you, Minister Janez Podobnik. The next question will be posed by Maria Possonec to the Minister of Transport, Master Janez Bozič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u93	Thank you very much, Mr. President. All present and welcome. I am asking the Minister of Transport and Communications Mr Bozic the following question: What is the transport policy of Slovenia, if any? Why have all direct links to Lendava been removed? In 1990, when I began to travel regularly to Ljubljana, I had a bus from Lendava at four, five and six o'clock in the morning. Now no one's driving. They also closed the railway link between Ljubljana and Budapest shortly after the opening ceremony. Actually, it's part of it. There is no link between bilingual places, so we cannot implement some common issues - such as attending bilingual secondary school in Lendava for pupils from Gorička. Mr. Secretary. Don't tell me it's market legality. The state is responsible for its citizens. People from faraway places should also be allowed, if not otherwise, to visit doctors of specialists in Ljubljana. These people should also be allowed to do so. Because all people don't have a car. They are also sick, old ones, so they cannot travel by car to Ljubljana alone, so they are tied to public transport. So I ask you: What are you going to do about improving the link between Lendava and Ljubljana? Last but not least, let me also point out that the backward places without a traffic link are doomed to failure. I wonder: How can students from Gorička attend bilingual school in Lendava? Has this traffic isolation not taken place on a planned basis? I wonder: How is the construction of the highway in Prekmurje? And: Can we only dream that the railway will connect these remote places with Ljubljana in the short term? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u94	Thank you, Mrs. Poxon. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u95	Thank you very much for the question, Madam Members. Thus, the timetable of trains on the Murska Sobota-Ljubljana route has not changed in internal passenger traffic in recent years. There have also been no requirements or change initiatives on the part of users, as personal traffic is unfortunately increasing from year to year. On the route Murska Sobota-Ljubljana in the morning or morning, two InterCity trains drive. The first comes to Ljubljana at 8.12 p.m. and the second at 9.25 p.m. There is also an evening connection to arrival in Ljubljana at 21.31 and a return to Murski Sobota is provided directly at 7 am and 40 minutes, 12.45 pm, 15.15 pm and 17.25 pm. In addition to the above-mentioned direct links there are also links to delinquency in Prague. Direct rail links in international transport, such as Venice-Budapest, were terminated at the request of Italian railways operating route 39. By stopping the train, Slovenian railways on the route from Ljubljana to Murska Sobota and vice versa took care of the replacement line. The first one is also provided for connection with the Venetians. However, we have taken into account initiatives for better connections from Murska Sobota in the direction of Hungary. Thus, the morning connection from Murska Sobota to Budapest with the arrival in Budapest at 9.38 p.m. and the return from Budapest at 17.25 p.m. is ensured in the current timetable from 12 December. The question of bus carriers - is indeed what you have found, but it is also true that they are subject to the functioning of the market, transport services, and are therefore interested in proposing such timetables for local and cross-border transport that enable them to survive economically. That is why and, of course, because of the growing personal traffic, due to the poor employment of transport capacity in the last two years, non-profit lines have largely been cut off, which also meant a reduction in the supply of transport in the various areas of our country. This is also true of the links between Murska Sobota and Ljubljana. The Ministry of Transport has provided partial subsidies to bus operators, for 50 tolars for each transported kilometer, which is on average almost 15% of the standard price in line transport, and the funds for 2005 are still not provided. At the moment, the Ministry of Transport has not yet been able to influence the volume and quality of the transport offer. However, if we are able to provide the necessary resources, an increase in the number of departures on individual lines where transport needs are required in 2006 could be initiated. However, I see a more comprehensive solution to the fact that subsidies and other transport policy measures also ensure and encourage public passenger transport, which will be regulated as soon as possible by the introduction of a single ticket and other transport policy measures. With this, we will also try to ensure, as soon as possible, a more normal situation on this, I can say, indeed an area that is in some way depressed.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u96	Thank you, Minister. Does the Member State wish to raise an additional question?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Unfortunately, on my own skin I feel every day that I simply cannot travel to Ljubljana. I was talking about the connection between Lendava and Ljubljana, not the Sobota Murska and Ljubljana, because the country goes there to the Hungarian border, that is to say to Lendava. You can't travel from Lendava to Ljubljana. It's about patients, students and rare individuals who are still traveling. Free is a nice answer, but in practice it's nothing, and I feel it every day. I have to keep asking someone that I can come with him to Ljubljana, because it's simply impossible to travel to Ljubljana, that's the truth.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u98	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Mr. Minister, would you like to respond?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u99	Thank you for your word. Member of the Commission, we will try to resolve this problem on this route in favour of the passengers travelling in this area.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u100	Thank you. Dr. Matthew Lahovnik will ask the Minister of Public Administration, Dr. Virant.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u101	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, Dr. Virant. At its 10th regular meeting, held on 12 and 17 January, the Official Council set out the texts of 51 public or internal competitions for leading public administration positions, at the same time appointing exactly so many special competition committees for the heads of bodies in the composition and for the posts of Directors-General. I ask you: How will you ensure equal treatment of all candidates competing for the posts of Director-General of Directorates? This is a highly professional and not a political place in the government. I ask you this because the Secretary of State Mr Rovs, who has made a public statement in the cabinet of Prime Minister Janša before the television cameras that two of the heads of Directorates are further than all other political functions promised to DeSUS. Since this is a matter of public tendering, I ask you: How will you ensure equal treatment for all candidates? I also ask you: Do all young experts have to first ask themselves in the cabinet of the Prime Minister, which two cities are in question, which were promised to pass public invitations by one of the political parties? I also ask you: Is there any further agreement besides the one with which the authenticity of these tenders is clearly impaired? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u102	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Lakhovnik! The highest-ranking system in the state administration is laid down by the law adopted in 2002 in this National Assembly, namely the Law on Public Servants, adopted by a high degree of consensus between all political parties and known how these procedures are taking place. In the first stage of the special commission appointed by the official council, they shall verify that the high competent standards set by the same official council are met - an official council which is not under government control, since the government has four out of twelve representatives in it. From here on out, when these standards are verified - and I can assure you that this is a very difficult sieve and that everyone cannot just get through this sieve - it is, of course, the minister who chooses within what I say is a "favourable choice" and chooses the candidate with whom he will best cooperate. The Coalition Treaty does not mention, by word of mouth, that these cities, therefore, should be divided by a client key in the administration. This was mentioned in the 2000 Coalition Treaty when the City of State Secretaries, which is comparable to today's Directors-General, was divided by a client key or it was written as far as possible to take account of the client key. We have not written such a thing in the coalition contract and no one has ever promised anyone that any professional position in the state administration would simply belong to any political party. So, once again, I stress: we have an official council so, I think we can all trust that we can verify these standards, the standards are hard, they are strict, beginning with the required management experiences, skills, knowledge of the issue of the field, professional enforcement in the field, knowledge of the legal regulation of the field, then knowledge of the functioning of the state administration, planning and use of budgetary resources, the functioning of the institutions and the legal order of the European Union in the field where the candidate will work, knowledge of at least one world language, so the English, German or French candidate must know, so these standards are really hard. Now, among the candidates who meet these standards, once again, I say, the minister will be the one who will propose to the government to appoint probably the candidate with whom it will be the easiest to work, because they are conceptually the most compatible because he will be trusted, because they will be the easiest to work together as a team because the directors are the closest management team of the ministry. From my experience, I can tell you that in these current temporary directors before the call was made, I have not asked anyone, nor which party belongs or has he voted for in the elections, because I am not interested in this; I am interested that these are people with competences who are willing to work in accordance with the government's programme. In fact, in fact, the official council has now called upon virtually all these places that were free to call, or set out, the text of the invitations, appointed the call committees, and the invitations to tender are to be published these days. It is almost entirely a matter of public tendering, of public competitions to be published in the Official Journal, of savings we will only publish in the daily newspaper the information that these invitations are published in the Official Journal, so that potential candidates will see this, but for details they will have to look either at the Internet, on the websites or on the official sheet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u104	Thank you, Minister. Does the Member request that the reply be completed? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u105	Thank you very much. It should be noted once again - as you yourself have rightly found it to be a highly professional non-political place in the state administration. The mandate is five years, which means it is longer than the mandate of the government. In my opinion, that statement of the gentleman would not have seemed controversial if it had not been the case at the same time for the Secretary of State, who was in charge of implementing the coalition agreement in the cabinet of the Prime Minister, who had clearly anticipated or claimed in advance of the public calls before television cameras, was verifiable, claimed that two cities were automatically promised to certain political parties. I ask you, Minister Virant: How does this comply with the other code of ethics signed by ministers? And in your personal opinion: Is such a statement appropriate, moral, and ethical? I would point out once again that many young experts who are totally unpolitical will apply to these places, and I do not know what to think, when they hear such a statement by the Secretary of State in the cabinet of the Prime Minister, the two cities are automatically promised to a certain political party. This is a principle of equal treatment for all candidates. And I must also say if they come into a narrower selection: Does this mean that coalition arithmetic will nevertheless be taken into account? Of course, in the coalition contract, as you said, it does not say, I believe that this is not in the coalition contract, but it is said by the Secretary of State in charge of implementing the coalition contract. I hope you don't say that at this early stage, but, as I said, the statement was publicly recorded. I'm interested in your personal relationship and how to [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] how this is in line with the above-mentioned Code of Ethics, which has been so beautifully presented. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u106	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Once again, I will make it very clear: no political party has been promised any professional position in the state administration. I will not comment on Mr Rous's statement, I have not heard it, but you can ask him, but he will comment on his statements himself, and I insist on what I have said. No one's been promised, and he won't.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u108	Thank you, Minister. Mrs Barbara Žgajner Tavš will ask the Minister for Culture, Dr Vask Simoniti. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u109	Thank you so much for saying that. I, too, must begin by expressing resentment over the work or restrictions of the opposition Members, which has obviously been introduced in this part by the coalition leadership of the National Assembly. I asked the Secretary-General of the Government to answer the question, because the subject is such, in accordance with the rules of procedure laid down in Article 242, paragraph 4, which made it impossible for me to do so by the Deputy Secretary-General of the General Assembly. I therefore refer the question of the same content or subject matter to the Minister for Culture, which I fear will not be able to fully answer the question. Let me begin the question of the post, however, with a summary of an article published days ago in one of the Slovenian newspapers: "With the withdrawal of the charges against the former v.d. The director of the public firm Strength Franc Noset proved to have done a service to certain circles, including church circles, in 1995 and 1996 and then left behind." And here is the merit of the question at least in this part to the Minister of Culture. The whole story, as we can see, dates back to 1995 and 1996, when the current director of the public firm Snaga Ljubljana voluntarily took a decision to guarantee the loans leased to the then Infographics company, the founders of which were the Press Centre of Ognjišče, the Roman Catholic bishopship of Ljubljana and Maribor, as well as three individuals, including former prominent politicians from New Slovenia. In order for the whole story to have a sense of interest, it should be noted that the then church dignitaries, who at the end of the day also held a hand over the company in question, were to promise the director then to repay the debts for his humane act on behalf of the pluralisation of the media, as the fate of the Slovenian newspaper would be questionable in the background. The company went into bankruptcy two years later, bankruptcy proceedings against Infografika, and today it weighs about 220 million tolls of tax money. The Court of Justice dismissed the judgment. The former head of the Force was apparently misled by the Church, a non-economic entity. And now the question. In what way will the debts to the public power company be repaid? And: On behalf of moral values will the shorter end be drawn to Ljubljana and Ljubljana, users and payers of the public service of the power company? The Coalition Treaty redesigns a fund for media pluralisation, which, while acting as an independent and independent institution, will ensure the plurality of general information and electronic media through various forms of action. Is it going to be a long one? [[..]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] paid from that fund? [[...]] I'm just finishing up. Will the story be simply forgotten and reminded only by the resulting higher accounts of the users of the Power Services?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u110	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Allow me, Minister, before I give the floor to explain why the question of the MP you just heard was addressed to you. I must say that the issues in the Ministry of Labour are addressed to an individual minister and not to a government secretary who covers only government services; that is, those services that do not belong to individual ministries. Once again, Madam Member, I apologize if there has been a misunderstanding, only in the future will you know that any matter affecting a particular area of the Ministry will be addressed or asked to be addressed to the relevant minister and not to a government service or to a government secretary covering only other areas that do not belong to the Ministry. Mr. Minister Simonita, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Your Honor. Your question, therefore, about the debts of the public company Strength, which is supposed to be related to the issue of media pluralisation, of course, does not concern the Ministry of Culture, since this has not been involved and does not lead any proceedings in this regard. As far as this is concerned, if this is to be paid from the new media fund, I have to deny it, and I would like to say the following in this regard. The establishment of the Fund for the pluralisation of the media will be aimed at promoting and more balanced expression of opinions and views in Slovenian media when it comes to it. The Fund will therefore share the funds for this purpose with the media, according to the criteria to be developed by media professionals. I must add that such allocation of funds to the European Commission is necessary as State aid, which means that control over their intended use is very strict and clear. Therefore, the question of repaying the debts of the public company Power cannot be in any way related to the creation of a media pluralisation fund. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u112	Thank you, Minister. Yes, here you go, Mrs. Squire.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u113	Thank you very much for your answer. Besides, I had to say I was expecting a similar answer. At the same time, the Minister also replied to Mr Tsukati, who obviously did not understand what I had just said at the outset. The question I have raised has, of course, been slightly changed today and concerns only the mentioned fund for media pluralisation, which is also at the back of the whole story, which I wanted to present briefly. It is true, however, that this area relates to a number of different areas or ministries. That is why, at least that was the case in the previous mandate, and ultimately the rules of procedure also set me up, asked or wished to raise a question from the Prime Minister-General. Well, given that I'm obviously not going to get the answer to the question raised today, but you don't want it in the background of 220 million tolls of tax money, I'm going to address the issue in writing to the government or to the Prime Minister, and I expect to get an answer from the relevant government services. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u114	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. In explanation, I must state that you can ask more questions to ministers than just one minister. The question affecting the spheres of two or three ministers can be addressed to several ministers, so that you can get a competent answer. That's how it's done so far. We also have a number of questions in this series of questions addressed to two or three ministers. Mr. Minister, would you like to explain further? [[No, no, ……]] The next question will be raised by Mrs Marjetka Uhan, Minister for Environment and Space. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u115	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The Minister of Environment and Space, Dr. Janez Podobnik, would like to ask: When will the final version of the motorway's installation be confirmed on the Płąska-Krastje section and the local permit issued? At the same time, I would like to say that interviews, studies, evaluation of studies, municipal meetings, assemblies of nationals have been taking place for more than ten years on this subject and, above all, the degradation of development in this area due to ambiguities regarding the reserved land for the construction of the motorway. All recommendations made by experts involved in planning and planning the installation of the motorway into the space speak in favour of a side-by-side variant. It has been defined by the local community, the municipal council, since 1995 and to this day in the same positions. The same is true of all local communities, 12,700 signatures of the people who applied for a petition to the government in last year, as well as 1,700 members of the civil initiative, for the installation of the motorway past Trebnje. The requirements under this option are also made by the Dolenjska Regional Development Programme Council, which has made a request to maintain H-1 as a highway and to build a side-by-side option and an immediate approach to construction. The Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of the Environment, Space and Energy and the Department of Nature Protection gave priority to this option in the last evaluation of last autumn's options, and the Ministry of Agriculture did not provide a position. It is my opinion that this ministry would also speak in favour of a side-by-side option, as by withdrawing the highway for villages to worse agricultural and forest land avoids greater evil. Protecting a better agricultural land is the Ministry's primary task. At the same time, we know that quality food production is disabled near the highway and so on. Even Dars, as an advocate of the lower variant last year, said that from the point of view of archaeology, has the advantage of a lateral variant. On the basis of these facts, the former government has already recommended to the current government in autumn to define the lateral variant and the current fast road remains for cross-border connection. I believe myself that the current government cannot afford to ignore the profession and go beyond the will of the people. However, a quick decision would solve the plight of people who have been waiting for a solution for half a decade. I ask for your answer, Minister, and thank you for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u116	Thank you, Mrs. Uhan. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u117	Thank you for the question, Mrs Uhanov. You have also raised a very similar question to the Minister of Transport, Mag. A Christmas boy who'll answer later. In accordance with the law on the regulation of the space for the selection of a variant solution, which is the basis of the draft national location plan, the Government shall decide on a proposal from the Minister responsible for the premises and a minister who is the initiator for the preparation of the national site plan. I can cheer you up or tell you that the Office for Spatial Development in the Ministry of Environment and Space has already prepared most of the material for the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. As Minister, I will be submitting the material to the government procedure in the coming weeks. Thus, it would be possible to decide on the most appropriate route of the highway at the Splash-Ponikva section, which is past Trebnje, to be adopted in the following months of this year. The material for handling at the government will be prepared according to my expectation, according to information on the comparison of the alternative solutions of the highway at the section of the Przyskava-Ponikva motorway, with which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia took note at the 4.11.2004 meeting, this is the government of the previous mandate, and you also discussed this decision or information in your question. In this decision or information, the government has assessed that there is the most appropriate route of the highway under the Bukovje variant at the Plavska-Ponikva motorway section and that solutions still need to be optimised in subsequent stages. We will bring the material in substance into line with the Ministry of Transport, and we will also obtain all the views of other operators of space regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u118	Thank you, Minister. The Member's request for further explanation?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u119	[[No, no, ……]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u120	Thank you. Mr Ferri Horvat will ask the Minister for Transport, Mr Bozic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u121	Thank you for saying so, Mr President. Following Slovenia's entry into the European Union, transit freight traffic on the main road of Maribor-May with Hungary increased rapidly. According to police administration Murska Sobota, the number of trucks from 29,000 before 1 May 2004 to 1 November 2004 increased to 71.520 or 147%. Transit traffic continues to increase. In addition to internal cargo and passenger transport, the situation is becoming increasingly unsustainable, the people on this road are increasingly at risk, their property, infrastructure and drastic data that there is an increasing blood tax as the number of deaths on this road increased by 43% in just one year. I ask the Minister of Transport and thus the Government of the Republic of Slovenia: Will the government take into account the conclusions of the previous government that it is necessary to complete the construction of the ferry line of the motorway in 2008? At the same time, I wonder whether the government and the ministry will take into account the unsustainable situation in the growing traffic on this road? Will the ministry take into account the greatest threat to the densely populated cities and places and ensure such a dynamic construction that they will first be committed to transport sections on the most critical route, namely the Vukova Vas - Sogetinci - Lenart, if possible before 2008? How funding will be provided, because domestic resources will certainly not be sufficient, I am thinking mainly of the European Investment Bank's dedicated loan and the acquisition of grants from EU funds, given the fact that this is a project that is extremely important for the more coherent regional development of this less developed Slovenian region and for the achievement of the accuracy of transport in the so-called fifth corridor, which is vital not only for Slovenia, but for a large part of the enlarged EU. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u122	Thank you, Mr. Horvath. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u123	Thank you so much for asking. Of course, at the same time, I will also answer the question raised by Mrs Požončeva, on the question of the upgrading of the ferry path. You can see for yourself that we need it as soon as possible. Transport flows to the single EU are increasing and infrastructure must follow changed conditions. There's no doubt about that. I will try to answer your questions as specifically as possible. With regard to the conclusions of the previous government that the highway needs to be completed by 2008, I can say that this objective is currently being pursued by this government, as we are aware of the importance of completing this motorway as soon as possible. It's true, as you yourself have found, that it's been done quite a bit. Finally, we have already built the longest Slovenian bridge, the bridge over Mura, and we have also unloaded the traffic loads of Mursko Sobota. With regard to the revised pace of construction of the Pomur motorway, I do not believe that it is necessary to modify the national highway construction programme, since this leg is fully covered, it is also financially valid, only the deadlines for completion change. This, however, may be duly determined by the National Assembly, which gives its consent to the annual development plan and the renewal of the motorway, in that document each year in the light of the progress of the preparatory and construction works. As far as the sections you're talking about are concerned, I can say the following. We already have a national location plan for the motorway section from the Posnica or Maribor to Lenart. The procurement procedures for selecting contractors will begin immediately after the adoption of this year's annual development plan and the renewal of motorways. Projection and land repurchase at this section are already underway. The aim is to turn this department over to traffic in 2007. Also for the section from Lenart to Lower Senarska, we already have a national location plan. Projects are being made. A call for preparatory works will also be launched this year. At the section from Lendava to Pink, where the national location plan was adopted last year, design, land buy-back and investment programme are already under way, all of which will enable the adoption of this year's development plan and the treatment of motorways to launch public procurement procedures for the selection of the contractor of construction works. As you can see, construction machines will be shut down this year on all highway sections, for which a national location plan has already been adopted. The problem remains only two sections from Lower Senarska to Cogetinci and Beltinci to Lendava, where the state's location plan has not yet been adopted, but the government has already confirmed the course of these routes. Options have been chosen and the government is expected to adopt both national location plans in March this year. For all the other sections, as I mentioned earlier, preparations are already under way for the construction itself. With regard to co-financing or EU funding, I can say that we have already presented this project in Brussels. In addition, I can say that Dars is successfully negotiating with the European Investment Bank on a favourable loan to build this section, under conditions such as Slovenia has not yet received. Thus, it is intended to be a manual harmonisation of at least 30 years with a very favourable interest rate, with a ten-year moratorium on the start of the principal's repayment. This is very important, because otherwise credits hired to build a suburban highway will not be serviced. Even though the number of trucks is increasing and the existing main road of this load is barely able, the volume of traffic along the highway is expected to be barely enough to cover the falling liabilities with the toll. If I sum up, this country's suburban highway is important and we'll do everything we can to get it to traffic as soon as possible. In doing so it is necessary to be aware of the real circumstances in which we live, so I ask all involved to ensure maximum cooperation so that we can find solutions that will be acceptable to all as soon as possible and that we connect this northeast part of Slovenia with the motorway system. Detailed information and all activities already carried out in the construction of this motorway leg and in particular planning activities will be provided in a written document. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u124	Thank you, Minister. The next question will be asked by Mrs Cveta Zalokar Oražam to the Minister of Public Administration, Dr Virant. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Secretary. At its extraordinary meeting in November 2004, the National Assembly adopted a law on amendments and additions to the Government Act, stipulating that the Government may, on a proposal from the Prime Minister, appoint a State Secretary to assist him in the performance of his duties. The number of State secretaries has not been limited and the government has so far appointed five state secretaries. These should, according to the Prime Minister, be optimal solutions chosen on the basis of expertise and work so far. I will not ask questions about their professionalism or education, or perhaps even the award of political services, because one of the secretaries of state said, "Now Tala Janša." I ask you: Is it not questionable to carry out the tasks of the Secretary of State covering the implementation of the coalition treaty, since this is an extremely political task that serves the four political parties and not directly to the government? I also ask you: what is the gross monthly salary of the Secretary of State and is it ethically disputed that a pensioner is appointed Secretary of State? I further ask you as the author of the code of ethics: Is this code binding on State secretaries as they have the status of an official? I also believe that some State secretaries have found themselves in a conflict of interest, because they also perform other functions. Specifically, Mr Franz Pukšič, who is both mayor and secretary of state, is a government official and thus has a function in the State or State administration body which exercises control over the legality of the work of municipal authorities or local authorities. Thus, the State secretaries should not, by analogy, be, like the Prime Minister and ministers, officials in local community bodies at the same time. If not for the other, at least this is ethically and morally highly controversial. I therefore ask you: How can such a dual official avoid conflict of interest and abuse of the situation, since such a mayor is privileged in cases with others, has direct contact with all ministers who make decisions regarding municipalities and will act as State Secretary and a member of the cabinet of the Prime Minister. Well, to be fair, that's extremely unhygienic.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u126	Thank you for asking. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u127	Thank you very much, Your Honor. In fact, the establishment of a new government has led to the entry into force of legislative provisions that change the management system in ministries, which means that each ministry has one secretary of state and it functions as a deputy minister in practice. The state secretaries in the cabinet of the Prime Minister, I must specifically warn you, are nothing new. This option has already been given by previous legislation. Even more. The previous legislation allowed for the appointment of both state secretaries and ministerial councils around the Prime Minister at the centre of the government. Thus the amendment of the government law did not bring any additional options to the Prime Minister here. The Prime Minister, Mr Janša, has so far actually proposed five state secretaries to appoint a government. However, I must stress in particular that only three of the classic secretaries of state are in the cabinet, while two are in charge of the services that have already worked. One is the Office for Slovenians in place and around the world, which has only been transferred from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs directly under the Prime Minister, and the other is the Federal Council - the Office of the Government for European Affairs, which remains a coordinating service linked to the Prime Minister, through the Secretary of State. All State Secretaries have also signed a code before the appointment. Their salary, that's a question you didn't predict, is about a million tolars gross, but I can deliver the exact information to you later. With regard to Secretary of State Puksic and his alleged incompatibility, i.e. the functions of the Secretary of State in the cabinet of the Prime Minister with the mayor's office, I stress that I have specifically reviewed the legislation in force and that there is no such incompatibility either in the government law or in the law on local self-government. The Local Self-Government Act establishes incompatibilities between the mayor and the city of the state administration in which the control of local communities would take place. The Office for Slovenians is not such a service and the Secretary of State for Slovenians in place and there is no function around the world where Mr Pukšič would be in conflict of interest with the mayoral position. However, if we are considering the conflict of interest more broadly - you said that the conflict of interest could be in that Mr Pukšič is meeting other officials and could influence their decision-making when it comes to the municipalities, in particular his municipality, and so on - if you think that there is incompatibility in this, then we must seriously ask ourselves what is the incompatibility of your function with the mayor's office, because all these years, when you were a member of Parliament and the mayor, you also had direct contact with officials, with members of the ruling coalition, with government officials and could also influence their decisions. I agree that it would be valid to hold a debate in this mandate on the incompatibility of functions, including the incompatibility of the Member State and the mayor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u128	Thank you, Minister. Does the Member wish or requests an additional addition? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u129	Thank you very much for your answer. I would like, given that the ball has been returned to me, but I would like to say that it is about incompatibility or the question of whether it is a compatible parliamentary and mayoral function, also about a matter that is legal and currently permissible. However, it is a matter of when, on the one hand, we have executive power at the level of the local community and the legislative authority at the level of the State. While one of the functions of the Secretary of State and the other is to act as mayor at the same time, it is to exercise twice the executive power. It is said that the mayor sits in the government and in the government has a more direct decision, because here in the National Assembly you are only one of the nineties and in the government each of the officials - he is the Secretary of State - directly executes certain matters. And here, I think, it can also come with the office led by Mr Pukšič to a collision, something else, because it is also a matter of invitations and similar matters. However, I have not yet been answered by the question of conflict or content covered by the Secretary of State for the Implementation of the Coalition Treaty, which, in my opinion, is a fully political task in office, once again, I stress the political parties of the coalition and the non-fulfilment, for example, of the government programme, which would somehow make sense.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u130	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u131	Thank you. Madam Member, I do owe you an answer to this part of the question. The function of the Secretary of State is a political function. That's how it's pawned. Nothing out of the ordinary or common practice in European countries is that in the so-called centre of government, it is said to the Prime Minister that officials are appointed, sometimes ministers, ministers without a license or secretaries of state, and otherwise they are appointed to assist him in his political function. I think it's a wise move for the Prime Minister to have someone with him to care that those commitments made by the political parties that have entered into the coalition agreement are also actually translated into the government's work programme and into reality. As well as another such function, it shall be accompanied by an official providing contact between the government, as executive authority, and the national assembly or individual parliamentary groups. But here, of course, I mean Mr. Lucius. I don't think there's anything wrong with that, or the opposite, that it makes it possible for the government to do quality work. If we looked, say, at the composition of the British government, we would see that there is a very large number of officials, ministers and secretaries around the British Prime Minister, helping him to carry out his duties. With us, this centre of government is still relatively small compared to other countries. In the Italian government, you have seven or even nine ministers without a director who are directly attached to the Prime Minister, and that is nothing unusual.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u132	Thank you, Minister, Dr. Virant. Mr Bogdan Barovic will ask the question of the Foreign Minister, Dr Dimitri Rupl. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u133	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, representatives and representatives of the government! Indeed, some will find it strange that it is the Slovenian national party, which has always been Eurosceptic, then Euro-realistic and even today still not wanted in the European Parliament, because it is not the same association where it feeds, that is the only one that has been asking and worrying about whether Slovenia, as a country we love and which, at least in the Slovenian National Party, is very much respected, will keep all the promises it has made with its admission to the EU. At the 2nd extraordinary meeting of this Chamber, we have agreed that we are unanimously prepared to lead the EU in the first half of 2008. This decision, as far as I know, is confirmed at the European level. We have a great obligation and honor before us, and we always keep our promise to the Slovenians. But before us is first the adoption of a law on the ratification of the European Treaty, for which we are in the Slovenian National Party, but we are opposed to speed. We are opposed to speeds because the fate of the ten EU Member States, which are forecasting the referendum, is completely uncertain. This referendum conditions the way and form - now only the thread I link - of EU governance directly by the State of the Republic of Slovenia. We are ahead of the euro in 2007. This is also a very important question in our decision. Last but not least, there are two possible ways ahead of us, two possible forms and content of management, we have a cost option of about 18-24 billion tolars or 60-100 million euros. All Slovenians and Slovenians probably agree that, in addition to all the many problems we are facing today, in today's first day of the meeting in the Republic of Slovenia, this provision is an honorable obligation of this country, and a great, great burden. Therefore, I would like to ask the distinguished Foreign Minister clearly and loudly: Are the State of the Republic of Slovenia and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs today and will be prepared in the first half of the year for the Presidency of the European Union in the first half of 2008? This answer will remain in the anals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u134	Thank you, Mr. Barovich. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u135	Thank you very much to the Member for the question. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, Members, Members of Parliament. Of course, the answer to Mr Barovic's question is that Slovenia is ready for the Presidency of the European Union. What this Presidency will be like when this Presidency will be, however, depends on many things. However, let me mention one of the elements on which our Presidency depends, in the first place, as mentioned by the honourable Member, namely the adoption of the European Constitution. Slovenia is not in a hurry to adopt the European Constitution. I've already said something about this on the Foreign Policy Committee. But he wants to set an example. If we have been chosen among many countries, as you know, for early presidency, then of course we must be some kind of example. And let us not be embarrassed and be ashamed that we are one of those countries that also the old members of the European Union are setting an example for those who have come along with us and perhaps those who are still coming. I think that our contribution to this chain of ratifications of the European Constitution can help to ensure that the remaining ratifications are equally rapid, successful and that the referendums will be successful later. I think that Slovenia has said a lot about the European Union in Slovenia, about the European Constitution. We first identified ourselves very positively at the referendum, as you recall. Then we had a lot of debate on the constitution when the convention was under way. It has been going on for two years and more, and I can say that we have organised the Slovenian Convention on the European Constitution at the premises of this Parliament, so it is impossible to say that Slovenians would not be familiar with them and that NGOs, if I did not speak of experts, would not have had the opportunity to express their opinion on this stop. So we've talked about the constitution and we'll talk about it. It is also true that Slovenia cannot at this time modify the text as it is being submitted. Slovenia can only accept or reject this text. My belief that I do not say faith is that, of course, Slovenia will do so in order to confirm this Parliament's Constitutional Treaty for Europe on 1 February. And I must say, I'm looking forward to it. As far as the question of our presidency is concerned, why will I link it to the Constitution? Because our Presidency will be different if the constitution is adopted by then, and otherwise, if it is not adopted by then. If the constitution is adopted by the end of 2006, then we will chair together with Portugal and Germany, as you know in the troika. How we're going to share our work is still a question. This is what is being discussed right now, both with Portugal and with Germany. We have already begun consultations with these two countries, aware that these two countries will be passengers in the Presidency of the European Union. If it does, I still believe that if it is not adopted, then Slovenia will preside over the European Union in a somewhat more demanding way and in a slightly more expensive way. We must agree on that with the Member of Parliament, Comrade Barovic. Costs are assessed differently. Those countries that wanted to use the opportunity of the Presidency to organize various events that were important, to say the least, to enhance the reputation of the country, its culture, to justify or advertise its country, and so on, they have spent more. Belgium, which has a Europe so-called home, has spent, as is known, at least. I am now talking about the current system of presidency. Our estimate is that costs will be between €60 million and €70 million. Whether they will be such costs, it is likely that it will not be possible to judge definitively at this time, because we do not know what the outcome of the story with the European Constitution will be. However, as a government full of readiness and, of course, full readiness, there is also the European Affairs Committee that is hosting this Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u136	Thank you, Minister. No, no, no. The next question to be raised is Mr Kristijan Janc, Minister of the Interior and Minister of Justice. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Mr President, distinguished ministers, colleagues and colleagues. The question I raised as a question could also be a good initiative. In recent weeks, many at local level have been surprised by the thick letter containing numerous forms of the Anti-Corruption Commission concerning officials, which includes a municipal councillor. On the basis of the anti-corruption law, the anti-corruption Commission has drawn up forms to report officials' assets. In the first indent of Article 2, the law operates on a term of office, where the councillors of the municipal councils are also included among the presidents of the country, the Prime Minister, ministers, Members and so on. Given that on average 8 or 9 meetings of the municipal council per year, I do not think it appropriate to put the municipal council on the side of the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister, ministers, Members and other public officials. Moreover, local councillors and family members are prohibited from applying for public tenders and are thus prevented from doing so. Does this mean that we do not want good saints at local level because some are already leaving municipal councils. I ask: Why are they included in the Anti-Corruption Act in the category of persons who are obliged to report their assets, including municipal councilors who, in my opinion, do not belong to such officials, and can the law be amended and removed from this category as soon as possible? Perhaps an example: Whether a congregation councilman who earns a good 50 grand a year in a small congregation needs to be informed of all of this. I ask for an answer, but above all the possibility of amending this legal provision, which I consider to be a big misunderstanding. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u138	Thank you, Mr. Janz. The Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Justice have a total of five minutes; decide, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u139	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the National Assembly. Dear Members and Members! Your Honor, allow me to briefly answer the question raised. It is true that the current legal system also places municipal councillors among officials. Thus, this regulation, which is also provided for by legislation governing the prevention of corruption, is legally justified; in this respect, according to the Ministry of Justice, there is no doubt that this regulation is legal in this respect. In particular, it is a matter of the appropriateness of this legal regime. In order to find the answer to this question, I am of the opinion that the key to determining what is essential in defining an official or not in this regard is not to seek in the reward received by the municipal councilors for their work - their reward for their work is indeed modest - but it is not possible to ignore the fact that they are involved in the process of making important decisions, which may also mean a significant change in the property situation of the congregation itself, as well as other entities working with the congregation. Therefore, at this point in time, we are assessing that this legislation is appropriate and meaningful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u140	Is there anything else the Minister of the Interior would like to add? [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Janc? [[No, no, ……]] We continue with the questions: Mr Mitja Slavinec will next raise the question to the Minister for Higher Education, Science and Technology. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u141	Honourable President, Honourable Minister, High Council! Thank you so much for saying that. Our economy has long felt the problem of technical personnel, after engineers, lack of this staff. Furthermore, technological development must necessarily be based on engineering, technical personnel, and as professional as possible, not on economists and lawyers. The import of engineers from other countries, in many opinions, is not the most appropriate solution, as it may be questionable to align their skills with our needs, with the specifics of our economy, then working habits, cooperation with the environment and, finally, belonging to businesses. On the other hand, this problem is particularly pressing, not only in technical areas, but also in other environments outside university centres. There is generally a lower average standard and it makes it even harder for parents to provide the necessary resources for studies and, on the other hand, the cost of the study itself is significantly higher and more difficult to study. Here are transport costs, renting apartments, food, it has to be organised differently. Therefore, it is likely that, in providing equal opportunities for all reasonable to take into account this issue, dislocation and other relevant facts, both in the case of censorship and the level of scholarships, in the case of the award of student homes, food allowances, transport, and last but not least of the other personal physician at the place of study. That is why I ask the question: I am interested in what you are looking at and how you plan, given the highlighted priorities of technological development and the lack of engineers, to encourage young people's interest in technical professions and science studies, on the one hand, and, of course, on the other hand, how to reduce the problem of brain drain from less developed regions outside the centre and universities, not least outside of Pomur. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u142	Thank you, Mr. Slavinz. Mr. Minister, Dr. Jure Zupan, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u143	Mr President of the National Assembly, honourable Members, honourable Members and honourable Members, Mr Slavinec! Thank you so much for asking. The problem you are asking is serious, and unfortunately in the past, it has been somewhat on the sidelines, so that in the near future we are, of course, facing a serious deficit in some of the environments that you are talking about. These are mainly natural and technical engineers. Addressing this problem requires, of course, an integrated approach and a number of ministries must be covered in an integrated approach, but I will only answer in this part, as far as our ministry, which I represent, is the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology. Our ministry has already taken the initiative to coordinate the scholarship policy, because we think that the scholarship policy is one of the main elements in the study itself to finance or grant these staff, and this is the Ministry of Labour, Home and Family and the Ministry of Education and Sport. In addition to this initiative, we have already agreed with the Ad Futura Foundation, which also finances and scholarships young people to focus on financing more in the direction of natural and technical professions and not so much in the social professions, which they have done so far in almost 99 per cent. That's all we've agreed on. The second area in which we work is the constant encouragement of young people to study natural science, by financing the promotion of science, i.e. for an informational purpose, where the funds are 75 million, and the Science for Youth programme, where there are about 50 million tolars. In particular, the House of Experiments is funded in this part, which is exclusively dedicated to natural and technological knowledge, so it is also popular among young people who are actually origins, those who go to technical, scientific colleges, because we know that it is to start the promotion in the last part, that is, when students are already enrolled in college, too late. You have to do this first. As far as brain drain is concerned, this is one of the main problems as well as regionalisation, where this escape is even more visible, which I fully agree with the Member of Parliament. But here is one of our answers that seems possible and we will also support it, this is the establishment of technology centres, centres of excellence and, of course, also technology parks, but it is important to stress that the Ministry alone cannot do so. Cooperation with the regional economy is essential here in particular. Only the regional economy and regional interests are those who, together with the state sector, will be able to establish such centres, which will actually be written on the skin of the regional economy and which will also attract people from this region to stay there. Young people who will graduate and become young researchers and then young doctors in some way will be able to work in such centres. These centres would still be an intermediate level between universities and institutions and economies in these regions.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u144	Thank you, Minister. Mr Member, are you asking for a reply? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u145	Thank you very much for your comprehensive response. There's only one more supplement I'd like to hear. When you mention Ad futura, I'm wondering if you're thinking about working with local foundations, because there's a lot of them on the ground. We estimate that they are certainly more enticing and more familiar with the local environment and that this kind of cooperation is likely to make sense as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u146	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Mr. Ambassador, that's exactly what you said. Ad futura was mentioned only so much because in this short period of time we reached the first one that was immediately available to us, talked to her, and they will make some patterns. The problem, of course, is that, interestingly, there is little interest in this. It is clear, however, that regional scholarship funds are significantly more effective and not only are regional economies but they are also municipalities. This will be supported and will always be our understanding if they come to a joint discussion and to a joint establishment or orientation, as well as a full technical implementation of certain centres.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u148	Thank you, Minister Zupan. Mr Aurelio Juri will ask the Minister for Environment and Space Mr Podobnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u149	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, if you'll excuse me, first of all, two words of commendation. It's nice that you wanted time for the problem, most hot at this point in time, concerning the third dock of Luke Koper. You have announced the preparation of a new location plan for the entire infrastructure. I warn you, only on the time side of this idea, and I hope that you will be in line with the other ministers who have something to say about this and that you will also invite only the leadership of Luke to prepare this plan. It would be most embarrassing and irresponsible for all of these perceptions that Luke is experiencing, and for even smiling at market policies and business competition, to see some of us have golden eggs trying to cut wings to make an inadequate contribution to the government. We'll follow up on this job. Now, the question I have announced is the wind. On October 3rd, the wind changed, and a new one blew. I doubt that he is most appropriate with regard to our obligations to comply with the Kyoto Protocol. I am referring to the decision of the Environment Agency, which issued a negative opinion on the planned construction of the Volovska Reber wind power plant at Illyrian Bistrica on the eve of the night. Her opposers rejoiced in the fact that the installation of windmills would be too severe an attack into space and a violation of Nature 2000 and that the advocates, who saw in it a great development opportunity for the congregation and the wider environment, did not hide disappointment. I do not live, Mr. Minister, in Illyrian Bistrica and I do not feel personally affected in one direction or another, but I advocate all the time imperatives that Slovenia activate as soon as possible all its potential for using renewable energy sources, so that while energy intensity decreases, it starts to abandon the use of fossil fuels. In view of the fact that the Volvo Reber project was one of the most prepared and that many other alternatives to using the wind to the extent we need cannot be seen for once, I ask Mr Minister: Is the government giving up this source and what path does the government intend to take, if so, in meeting its obligations under the Kyoto Protocol and the EU directives? We know that time is running inexorably, and tasks await us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u150	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Commissioner Aurelio Juri, regarding your first part of the question, regarding the fate of the port of Koper d.d. of Cyprus, I can reassure you and assure you that the decision of the government to establish an interdepartmental group, in which I myself, as Minister of Environment and Space, was correct. We have three commitments under the Lisbon Strategy. To fight for economic success, and this is what we want Luke Koper, for social cohesion, so many jobs, this is what we want Luke Koper, but also for the environmental dimension, here is the third dimension of the Lisbon process. This is what we want Luke Koper and everyone who lives in this beautiful region of Slovenia. And this Interdepartmental Group will address several dimensions of the future development of the port of Koper. I'll keep an eye on this third. With regard to your particular question, first of all, I must tell you that a new wind has taken place in a number of areas. Even on this one. As Minister, I personally support wind energy. In my opinion, it represents a very clean way of producing electricity. With regard to the procedure itself, we know very well that the agency of the Republic of Slovenia, which is the body in the composition of the department I run, issued a decision last year, as stated, by Elektro Primorski d.d., rejecting the issue of environmental agreement for the construction of wind power plant and connecting 110 kilovolt remote in the Volovje Reber area of Ilirsko Bistrica. The Environmental Agency of the Republic of Slovenia conducted the procedure in accordance with the applicable laws, environmental law and nature conservation law. In those days, we received an investor's complaint. According to the law, the Minister is a second-degree body. I'll make my decision within the time limit. 30 days, more complicated, 60 days. Together, we can find that this is a more complex situation. In view of your specific issue relating to the fulfilment of Kyoto commitments, I would like to tell you the following. In your question, you also wrote that you are defending the need, and today you have said, you have been very, I would say, correct and you have submitted to me the whole question that Slovenia will activate all its potential for using renewable energy as soon as possible. Mr Juri, even far bigger and richer countries than Slovenia do not work in all areas at the same time, but first set priorities. So the question is, what are these areas? Here I answer you on the basis of the documentation and the behavior I have. The Slovenian greenhouse gas emission reduction programme was adopted last year. The programme was forwarded to the European Union Commission at the time of the approval of the emission allowances plan and its starting point was also verified by a mission of experts from the Kyoto Protocol secretariat. Our program is very clear. For the 8% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions in the period 2010-2012, this is committed in general, in which all greenhouse gas emissions amount to 20.6 million tonnes of CO2 and are then classified as relevant. In what way, then, will we attain this direction? First of all, with measures at thermal power plants. Due to increased fossil fuel efficiency, greenhouse gas emissions are expected to decrease by around 900,000 tonnes of CO2. The efficient use of energy in industry, here we mention the introduction of new technologies, is expected to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by about 100,000 tonnes of CO2. Effective use of energy in broad consumption, in particular reduction of heat losses. Improvement of rolling stock, despite increased traffic, is expected to limit the increase in missions. And then the measures of action. The use of renewables in electricity production will reduce CO2 emissions by at least 400 thousand tonnes of CO2 in 2002 However, the maximum share to increase the use of renewable resources is expected from the project in the lower Sava and the project to restore existing hydropower plants and from the exploitation of biomass. We in biomass see a rather convenient, convenient and affordable way of renewable energy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u152	Thank you, Minister. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u153	Thank you for your comprehensive response. I hope that you will take this into account when you decide on the complaint that, in this particular case for Volovje Reber, we will, of course, open the doors to wind energy, because if the criteria, as far as I am aware, which have been taken into account in this refusal of consent, continue to exist in similar other cases, I am afraid that we will not have wind power plants in Slovenia. I repeat, we all know that there was one, and that one of the best-prepared projects, we know that the locations where wind power plants can be created are very limited. Of course, from this title we are talking about the necessary quantity, which is also economically justified, so I am counting, of course, on your affection for this project, to finally open the door to new power plants elsewhere in Primorske, which is the only part of Slovenia, where we can make proper use of the wind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u154	Thank you, Mr. Yuri. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u155	Thank you very much. These are certainly the elements that will be important in the decision. It is important to say, however, that the framework of our decision is given by the existing legislation adopted by the National Assembly in the previous term and, of course, by a number of European guidelines and directives. Here I would like to draw your attention to Article 101b of the Nature Conservation Act, which says very directly. It states that interventions dealing with the direct and indirect impact on species and plant species occurring in the area under consideration are therefore very important when assessing the acceptability of interference with nature. This is the legal standard that is currently in force. However, when you mentioned your assessment that this project could be a pilot project that would open the way forward or deny the route to wind energy in Slovenia, I can only attach to it. This is especially because we need to be very sensitive when we decide that we do not have very favourable, permanent wind areas in Slovenia and that there are relatively few such areas. Therefore, this decision, which will be taken in the coming months, will be important for further decisions in this area.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u156	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Mag. Milan Cvikl will ask the Minister for Local Self-Government and Regional Development. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u157	Mr President, allow me to begin by commenting that today's leadership and classification of issues are completely inconsistent with what we have set out in the Rules of Procedure. The question that I would like to ask the Minister without a licence responsible for regional development, which is an important issue of drawing on European funds, is the question that I had a dilemma about who should I put it to in the government that sits before us. I have assessed that, given the powers of the Local Self-Government and Regional Development Service and the importance of cohesion policy and the functioning of the former Minister, it is my understanding that Minister Žagar would be able to respond to this. The fact is that drawing on the European funds available to Slovenia to achieve the desired objectives is particularly necessary for a proactive policy of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. In this regard, we assess that it is very important to successfully continue the procedures initiated to draw on the funds of the Structural Funds and the cohesion fund for which we have been granted the right to draw on the Treaty of Accession to the European Union, and this right amounts to as much as 110 billion tolars in the period 2004-2006. It is well known and we have noted that the changes and additions to the Government and State Administration Act have led not only to the arrival of new officials, but also to the creation of new ministries, requiring, inter alia, the reintroduction and training of ministers, state secretaries and subordinated staff in cabinets. The short estimate is that there are now as many as two-fifths of the new authorising officers within the state administration. This raises the question of how quickly the government will proceed with the call for proposals related to the drawing-up of European funds. I also ask this because in the media we are hearing, the government is supposed to believe that there is a need for a rebalancing of the state budget for 2005 and that this rebalancing is supposed to follow what is enshrined in the coalition contract, namely the introduction of new rights or the enlargement of existing ones. We estimate that determining the situation and post-rebalancing decisions can significantly reduce the positive effects of membership in the European Union. I therefore ask the Minister: How and, in view of the fact of the coalition agreement, will the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and he, as a minister, provide adequate resources to achieve the positive effects of membership in the European Union or how will your service respond to these challenges?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u158	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u159	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Members and honourable Members, honourable Members of the Mag. Milan M. Squeakle! I would answer your question within the framework of those powers that are linked to the functioning of our service, namely the services of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for local self-government and regional policy. In fact, there are two areas where work at our service is currently taking place. As you have already said, one work is related to active monitoring of the use of funds in the period 2004-2006. At the moment, we are actively analysing the existing drawdown of these funds and estimate that it will be necessary for the next budget period, it is said, for 2005 and 2006, to ensure adequate restructuring of state public finances. This means that, of course, there will be a need to prepare a rebalancing for 2005 and to include it and, of course, for 2006 as well. Here I am referring to the part of the funds that are linked to the so-called own funds of the Republic of Slovenia which are linked to active pumping. Of course, work is continuing intensively in the preparation of the programme. We must not forget that without appropriate programmes this cannot be done. But it is true that this is happening in connection with many ministries, I think there are nine or ten of them. Our service in this respect manages a coordinating role. At the same time, of course, preparations are under way for the next budget period. For the next budget period, it will have to be adequately prepared. A national development programme for the period 2007-2013 is being prepared for the next budget period. An analysis of the investment needs in Slovenia during the period 2007-2013 is also available. However, I would particularly like to point out that we are assessing that it will also be necessary to provide additional resources during the 2005 and 2006 budget periods for the preparation of the relevant programmes, so that we can then successfully carry out pumping in the next period. However, I must stress once again that the objective is that the funds actually negotiated over the past period draw on all activities to this end. We have therefore paid particular attention to this coordinating role of our service in relation to the other ministries.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u160	Thank you, Mr. Minister Ivan Zhagar. Here you go, Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u161	Mr. Secretary, thank you for your answer. I'm interested in the right thing. In 2004, 36 and a half billion calls were already made. I would like to ask: When exactly will you and the Ministry of Finance ensure certification of this and when will you proceed with the following calls? No new tenders have been observed since 3 December. These calls are a condition for the preparation of projects so that they can continue with successful economic growth in 2005 and 2006. I therefore ask, specifically, when will you guarantee back certification with the Ministry of Finance, when will you send requests to the European Union to win these 36 billion in revenue and when calls will continue? By the way, the Ljubljana Technology Centre has been rejected by the authorities of the Republic of Slovenia if it does not provide its own resources, even though it is certified. And gentlemen in the strategic world, newspapers say they don't know anything about it, even though they got certified, of course, their own funds from banks. These are all the specific problems and for which I would like the specific answers of both, in particular the Minister without a licence, who is responsible for this, and of course this is also the responsibility of the Minister for Finance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u162	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Although these are additional questions, but Mr Minister, if you want to, you can answer them.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u163	Thank you for your word. I would say that this basic analysis is now in its final stage. As regards the scope of these procedures that you have mentioned, we have a coordination meeting tomorrow with both the Ministry of Finance and other ministries, which are linked to this, so that things can immediately turn out or that they can run faster than they did in the past period. The outcome of this analysis will also show further action in the area of the preparation of further programmes. Things are gonna be running, actually, preparations are already running, and they're gonna be running out of time.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u164	Thank you, Minister. Mr Boštjan Zagorac is next to ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food. Since the Minister is not at the meeting, she apologized, you won't be able to get an answer. But you can ask or introduce us to the question, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u165	Thank you for your word. Your Honors are here! I am sorry, too, that the Minister is not at today's meeting because I think the issue I am going to raise is a very interesting and urgently needed solution. In the Slovenian National Party, we have already warned of the so-called sale of Slovenian land prior to Slovenia's entry into the EU. According to our assessment, it is now high time, regardless of the fact that Slovenia is already in the EU, to do something about it. In particular, we have highlighted the real estate market in the border areas. According to the latest events on the literal sale of Slovenian vineyards, we were right. According to some data from administrative units obtained in the Slovenian National Party, there are more and more first-class vineyards at the Slovenian-Austrian border already in the hands of Austrians. For example, after 1 May 2004, several farmers sold their properties to neighbors across the border in the Kungota-Šentilj-Peznica municipality. The object of the sale was either whole farms or so-called vineyards with agricultural land, and in particular vineyards on first-class sites. Domestic or potential domestic buyers cannot pay EUR 5 per square metre as much as an Austrian buyer can offer for a square metre of quality vineyard. In view of the data that suggests that more and more foreigners are still interested in buying Slovenian properties - as I mentioned - we are also informed about this by the administrative units from the border areas, I ask: When and in what ways does the Slovenian government and the competent ministry think to protect this Slovenian farm territory? The fact is that Austrian lands on the other hand are protected. Otherwise, we also know some kind of protection in Slovenia. The Law on Agricultural Lands lays down the so-called order, but this preliminary right must be exercised by someone. The completely unacceptable response that we could see in the public, at least for the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, was that these farms are simply too small. You know, more small farms give you one big one. So the fund made a big mistake here, so he didn't sign up as a potential buyer. I also ask the competent ministry: Does the country intend to restrict the sale of Slovenian land within a five-kilometre border band for a certain period of time, or does it intend to encourage farmers to purchase the remaining land with favourable loans? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u166	Thank you, Mr. Zagorac. The next question will be asked by Mr Borut Saiovic, also the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, who is not, and of course will not be able to receive a direct answer. But he can introduce us to the question now.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u167	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. A nice greeting, of course, to the members of the government and to all present. I, of course, take the apology of the Minister of Agriculture with understanding and with affection. However, I think it will also be possible to understand from this debate what matters would be good about the settlement of the Slovenian countryside, agriculture and, above all, livestock farming, should be summarised. I posed a similar question to the Committee on Agriculture a long time ago, and it was by chance that I received an answer this morning, which, of course, I am not entirely satisfied with. For if certain matters relating to worship at home could be regulated in the countries of the European Union without any threat to the protection of consumers and, in particular, the users of this meat, then I am convinced that it is necessary to trust the Slovenian farmer to produce good, quality food. And of course, he is so enlightened and educated that he will not primarily question the health of his family members and his health. Therefore, I propose that we re-examine the rules and organise them so that they are comparable to European countries, and that they will allow the slaughter and slaughter of animals up to 30 months at home - I stress, for start only for domestic use - I stress two more things about this. The profession must be included here, that is to say, the veterinary will have control over these slaughters and must have control, and the way in which slaughter wastes are produced must also be agreed under these regulations. Of course, I reject the argument that this could lead to the spread of infectious diseases and the like, because animals will be previously examined and will be slaughtered exclusively by healthy animals. I ask the Minister to examine this response, which has been sent to us by the competent services, again in detail and in good faith to protect the Slovenian countryside, which has been severely affected by this measure, and to discuss and adopt a solution that will be in everyone's pleasure, but of course will never and will never endanger the Slovenian consumer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u168	Thank you very much. The question will be raised by Mr Bojan Kontic to the Minister for Finance, Dr Bayuk. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u169	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. During the previous term of office, a law on income was adopted which, despite the efforts of disabled workers and some Members of the previous national assembly, did not regulate the payment of that part of the disability income, which is linked to the income of the pension and disability insurance institution. In the second reading, an amendment was tabled which was adopted by the mother's working body and provided for the non-payment of income for that part of the income that disabled workers receive from the institution of invalidity insurance. Regrettably, an amendment was later adopted at a meeting of the National Assembly, which restored the law or things to their former state. The problem is, therefore, that working persons with disabilities receive income or salary from two sources. First, the company is calculated in a gross amount and all liabilities, including income increments, are deducted. However, the part which is by the institution is not calculated in gross amount and the income adjustment is not calculated and is not taken away. When a taxable person, in the case of a disabled worker, is calculated on a return return basis, a part of the income that has not been taken into account in the payment of the income allowance shall be placed in the higher income class, which consequently amounts to an additional payment of two to three disability benefits. When I read the Magnography of the National Assembly, I found that disabled workers were then supported by the current Minister of Magi. Oh, you little thing. Since they come from the same party and are somehow mutually responsible for this area, you, Dr. Bayuk, I ask: When and how will you handle this?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u170	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor, and thank you very much, Mr Member, for your question. It is true that, in the past mandate, the new Income Law has in fact retained the essence of the system, as it was before, despite the fact that some Members have indeed advocated a radical change in this area. If I understand your question correctly, it is those supplementary revenues received by persons with disabilities in the second and third categories, which are otherwise taxed. The only change included was the change in the deposit. And despite the fact that some have tried to change this, this principle, which has already been in force in the past, has been reintroduced into the law now in force. As you know, the government has committed itself to submit some changes to the National Assembly in all these areas in the first half of the year, and at the latest in the second half of the year. At present, the government has already drawn up a committee of experts working with the Ministry of Finance and are preparing these changes. Of course, the arguments that have been used for the time being are familiar to me. But I'd be happy to listen to the other side of the bell that you represented at the time. And it is the responsibility of this expert group that it will be able to listen and listen to all the benefits of possible solutions to certain problems. I cannot assure you what the final position will be, and that would be inappropriate, and that is why this work is going on. However, I can assure you that we will listen to the arguments and, if possible, we will also agree to this and develop a different approach than it has been so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u171	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The following question will be raised by the Member, Mr Pavel Gantar, Minister for Economy, Mr Mag. Visionary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u172	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Respectable members of the government, respected colleagues and colleagues! Gentlemen mag. Andrej Visiak, Minister of Economy, I ask: What is or will be the position of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the directive on computerised inventions proposed by the European Commission, which has already been removed from the agenda twice or three times? Will a government representative on the Council of Ministers support her? The Directive was also withdrawn, inter alia, due to extensive opposition from the public concerned, in particular from developers, users and advocates of free software; the petition was signed by more than 300,000 citizens of the European Union. I also ask the Minister: Why do you not inform and involve the public in the preparation and content of the position of the Republic of Slovenia - except for a consultation which was recently organised by the Office of Intellectual Property in cooperation with the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia on 20 January - since the directive on informal information is supposed to be on the agenda today at the Council of Ministers? The Slovenian open source community strongly opposes the directive, and the section of Slovenian software manufacturers Koda.si, while the association for IT and the communication market, where the producers are mainly licensed or representatives of licensed software, is expressed in favour of the Directive. How will the government or the Ministry of the Economy take into account this conflict of interest between companies marketing and developing licensed software and among free software developers? And: What position will the government now take, and what will it represent in Brussels? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u174	Thank you very much, distinguished Member. The Ministry of Economy supports the adoption of the directive as prepared by the European Commission. This is how the text of the directive coordinates the legal basis for patenting computerised inventions, since it clearly sets out what is between inventions and what is not. The content of the directive thus prepared is based on the practice developed by the courts of European countries and, in particular, by the European Patent Office to interpret such inventions. In September 2004, a meeting was held with representatives of MIT, which is certainly well known for their advocacy of the views of the open source community and software manufacturers. At this meeting, MIT representatives expressed their support for the proposal for a directive and had no further comments. In November 2004, a meeting was held with representatives of the Information and Telecommunications Association at the Chamber of Commerce, which, of course, operates, and in December the Association forwarded a position to support the adoption of the proposed directive, although the Koda.si section, which operates within the association, has some concerns. In December 2004, a common position was adopted at the Coreper meeting and placed on the agenda of the Agriculture Council in May. The proposal was not considered because it was withdrawn from the agenda. On 19.1.2005, the Association for Informatics and Telecommunications, together with the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Intellectual Property, organised a meeting entitled Presentation of the legal protection of computer programmes in the field of intellectual property. The meeting was also attended by a representative of the European Commission, a representative of the European Information Systems Industry Association, communication technology and consumer electronics, and a representative of the author agency of Slovenia. Aspects of the legal protection of computer programmes in the field of intellectual property and the impact of the directive on the information industry were presented. The conclusions of the meeting suggest that the adoption of the directive is necessary despite some concerns about the definitions of the text of the directive and that the Ministry of Economy also supports the adoption of this Directive.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u175	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr Dusan Kumer will ask you a question. I'm sorry. I'm just asking for a refill. Please, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u176	Thank you very much for your answer. Mr Minister, unfortunately this directive does not provide for a clear distinction between patented programming, i.e. between patentable elements and non-patentable elements. That's the first thing. The second thing is that we certainly are, and I have once supported the adoption of this directive on the condition that certain amendments are adopted. And unfortunately, you weren't accepted. Furthermore, I would only point out that today this directive is to be considered, on 24 January, but is withdrawn from the Council of Ministers at the request of Poland. So you have at least another week of time to try to reach all these different points of view and perhaps even with other Member States you are drafting some amendments that will allow this directive to be better than it is now. So I'm interested in the supplementary question. I wonder: Do you think at this time that you still have, because the directive has been withdrawn, anything else to do to bring these views together and defend Slovenia's more acceptable position in the European Union? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u177	Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u178	Thank you very much. I think that this position of Slovenia is acceptable, but I fully agree with you that this time of withdrawal is an appropriate time and, in fact, the possibility of positions getting closer also on the basis of the coordination and adoption of the relevant amendments. Of course, Slovenia will actively participate and, in fact, this time is intended to improve the text of the Directive.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Mr Dusan Kumer will ask the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Public Administration. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u180	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Respectable ministers. In recent times, there has also been a lot of talk and information in the public media about the high additional earnings of some officials and senior government officials from the title of authors' fees. In principle, this would not be wrong if these same people did not receive such low wages as to carry out their duties. It is therefore questionable, for example, for the Secretary of State to receive more than 11 million authors' fees on his salary - I quote the source of the Evening 7.1.2005. Even more; with regular employment and both responsible tasks in the state administration, such as acting as Secretary of State, earning a month's free time, about 800,000 dollars, that is, a salary and a half, is just too much. In addition, there is increasing information that many author contracts are concluded within individual government departments and state authorities with government officials and officials. In short, it is not only the external hiring of experts, but that they are found within them, and that they conclude copyright contracts for certain works and services. I therefore ask the Minister: in 2004 how much budget was allocated to work within the state authorities through copyright contracts? And: How much of these funds have government officials and employees spent on providing services through copyright contracts in addition to their work obligations? Another time. What are you going to do and do to stop the practice of doing something else when you work for a job through the copyright contract? Or: that what I did and did for the salary of the state administration, afternoon through lectures, I cash for the fee. And a third. According to some figures, some less than 30 billion authors' fees were paid in the public sector last year. That's not a small number. I do not think that much of this cake has been given to those individuals in the free professions in the public sector, whose only existential source is the author's contract. Here, of course, I am thinking mainly of people in the field of culture and art. And in the end. Because of the truthfulness of your response to your colleague Lahovnik. It is not true that the 2000 Coalition Treaty recorded the division of seats of State secretaries. The living proof of this is, of course, Minister Virant - you who have served as Secretary of State in the previous government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u181	Thank you very much. The question was addressed to two ministers. Since I see that the Minister of Finance is not in the Chamber, then I ask the Minister of Public Administration, Dr Virant, for an answer. At the same time, I am asking for the answer of Minister Bajuk. Please, Dr. Virant.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u182	Thank you very much, Mr. Kumer. First of all, the 2000 Coalition Treaty states that the allocation of seats to State secretaries also takes into account the client quotas or the number of seats reached in the elections. Reliable! You can take a look at that. That's what it says. I said it's writing. And you can look, too. That's what it says. Then we can watch it together. As far as copyright fees are concerned, let's not mix apples and pears and go nicely in order. Since a large part of this issue was obviously meant for my personal case, I will first explain this case. At the time I was Secretary of State, I did not get one tolar of the author's fee from any public administration. From any government authority! It's verifiable. I can write you permission to go look at this for tax administration or anywhere. Never. But it's true that I was given authorial fees for my teaching work in three colleges. For undergraduate and postgraduate students. I've received fees like they were formed in the market, so to speak. I got as much as those colleges offered me for my classes. And any other habilitated university teacher who qualifys for it could also conclude a contract for any of these colleges. I have no bad conscience or problem about this. Because of the fact that, of course, the work of the Secretary of State, especially after the new, when it is the Deputy Minister that I do not speak of the work of the Minister at all, is so difficult that there is little or no time left for anything else, we have reduced all the ministers and secretaries of State in the same way that we have also signed that we will reduce any other activities that are legally compatible with the ministerial function to the extent that they do not interfere with the performance of our duties. Personally, I can say that this is really about reducing to a minimum the amount of these lectures, maybe four weekends, Friday afternoon, Saturday afternoon throughout the year, as some Members have been given. So this is going to go down dramatically. However, as regards the author's fees in the public administration in general, the government has already adopted conclusions 20 days after it has taken an oath that have fully regulated this area, so that all ministries, after adopting new regulations or amending regulations, must organise free training for all public service providers, in particular for the public administration and municipal administrations, which, of course, significantly facilitates the work of regulators and, on the other hand, reduces the possibility of becoming a need for surrender. But I'm talking about a whole other area right now, I'm not talking about a professor's job, but I'm talking about training, seminars and the like. If there is a need for a permanent offer of training in a particular field, we have an institution called the Administrative Academy, which is an integral part of the Ministry of the Interior, now the Ministry of Public Administration. It is a budgetary institution, that is, each of its receipts is a receipt from the budget and represents an internal training system in the state administration. The state administration is a system that needs such an internal training centre, as all or all major and successful companies probably have it. This training centre, which we call an administrative academy, is developing programmes in line with the public administration development strategy. It therefore offers what is important for the administration, from knowledge in the field of human resources management, budgetary management, financial management, quality management, structural funds and other horizontal content. At the administrative academy, as an internal training centre, we attract the participation of external and internal experts because there is a lot of knowledge concentrated within the administration. And in fact, here with the staff, not with the officials, we have forbidden this, nor are the State Secretaries here to teach, but we pay for it and we will continue to do so. They're doing this outside of their working time, and after the conclusions I've been talking about, we're also asking for proof of it, otherwise it can't be. [[....]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] the fee paid. That's all I'd say for the end. According to my experience, those who teach at the administrative academy do 100% of their work at work. These are the best people in the government. And if they're willing to hand over their knowledge to their colleagues and if they deserve an extra tolar for that, I don't think we should stop them. I could present the rest of these conclusions, but there is no time.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u183	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Would you like to answer the question, Mr. Minister of Finance, Dr. Bayuk?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u184	Thank you so much for understanding. In fact, I have nothing to add to what my fellow Minister of Public Administration has said. From the exemplary point of view of the Minister of Finance, I would simply say that all those who receive these authors are taxed in a different way than was the case in the law on income, which is now in force from 1.1.2001, and that, as far as this is concerned, we intend to review this in a way similar to all the other things that are the subject of major debates in Slovenia today. For the time being, the law is in force, taxed as it is. As long as it doesn't change, we'll listen to everyone, certainly, what will be the final decision, and today I can't assure you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u185	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Kumer.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u186	I really wouldn't mix pears and apples either. I was very precise on my question. I did not talk about the amount of fees from the author's work on the intensity and ability of such important functions as the Secretary of State, in this function, to earn a salary and a half, which means that it takes a lot of time and energy to invest in this, that these 11 million are earned - now that we are already on a particular issue. Here was my point. On the other hand, it is now estimated that over the past four years the small force has been done in the reform of the state and public administration, so my question is in this direction, this is not from my mouth. The second thing is what's on the honoraries from the copyright contracts. It's not just lectures, it's also a lot of things that are done: from marriage proposals, etc., that are put into external production, but, of course, they are produced and proposed by senior government officials within individual ministries, according to some information. Here I only suggest if this can be checked in due course, as the Minister of Finance also told the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u187	Mr. Minister Virant, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u188	Thank you very much. In view of the fact that this is becoming a debate on a specific State Secretary, it is said that I am, as it was also obvious from the outset that this was intended. I don't know, your minister, Dr. Bohinc, who we've been working with all these years preparing for the reform of the public administration, has spoken otherwise. I think that, in the previous mandate in the field of administration, much has been done; all the legislation in this area, the Law on Public Servants, the Law on State Administration, the Law on Public Agencies, the Law on Inspection and much more. And here we share the price of your former Minister, Dr. Bohintz. Thus, by the United List, this is new to me today that nothing has been done in the area of administration, completely new information, I must say. Of course, to my students of public administration in colleges, it's at the university of administration, at the university of construction, where I had a postgraduate course, and at the university of state and European studies, teaching or teaching what I was crippled for before I became Secretary of State, and for which I hope I will be crippled later as well. And to now take advantage of my function - where I have really gained many new knowledge, thank God - for having, therefore, any higher profits from this title, which is pure nonsense. It is true, however, that I have learned a great deal from the role of Secretary of State, and we are all continuing to learn, and even after this function has expired, I will continue to teach with great joy. It is true, however, that there is very little in this mandate as Minister. And also, believe me, my income forecast for this year will be lower than it was in previous years, and especially lower than it was in 1999, when I had no office in the state administration.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u189	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Minister Bajuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u190	Thank you very much. I will answer that part of your question, which is related to this, which is very much discussed in our public, that there is actually some practice, that certain officials - you did not only ask about the matter of lectures, as already answered by colleague Virant - it is also about the fact that certain laws or proposals of laws are already being made by officials who are in the public service, and they are doing it in addition to normal work. In itself, this is certainly a matter of some concern. I have already examined this at the Ministry of Finance myself, but I do not have a definitive response, because it is very difficult to control the first day or the first week. However, in any way, I personally find it very disturbing that - I believe it is possible to have certain controls where this is necessary and also good or necessary, but this can be done in a very public and transparent way and we do not need to burden our society with such rumors as are heard today; that most or most of all of the laws' proposals have certainly been made by the officials themselves. This also bothers me, in every way it is a practice that needs to be stopped. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat to the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Mr Mag. A little thing. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u192	Thank you for your word. Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, distinguished co-worker of the government, distinguished ministers, colleagues and colleagues, welcome! Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Mag. I ask Janez Drobnič: How will he react if he reacts to the rejection of his proposal to pay the deposit of this year's holiday allowance of 10,000 Slovenian tolls with the payment of January's pension? Your proposal, we all know, was accepted by the Management Board of the Pension and Disability Insurance Institute and rejected by the Assembly of the Institute on 19 January. The question arises mainly because of the fact that there was virtually no harmonisation of pensions in the second half of last year and that pensions have even been reduced in real terms in the last four years. Thank you for your answer in advance.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u194	Dear Member, thank you very much for asking me this question. Pensions were lagging behind in 2004 for wage increases. Wages increased by just over 5 percent over the past year, or 5 percent, while pensions increased by about 3.6 percent. This harmonisation was carried out at the beginning of 2004. We were trying to resolve the problem of the backlog of pensions in January, so as a reserve minister, because I am also responsible for the area of pension and disability insurance, I proposed payment of the withdrawal of this reservement for recreation. I also justified this by the fact that it was in the coalition contract and that these funds were liquidity-provided. Finally, it must be said that most of the employees in December also received a so-called Christmas or 13th salary, while the pensioners received nothing. Well, this proposal of tens of thousands of tolars could also mean some kind of basic for the realisation of others laid down in the coalition contract in order to actually increase this regression. Now, of course, it's nothing to do with it. In fact, the material situation of pensioners has decreased in this way, but we expect that the harmonisation will take place in February, but it will probably not - more than 1% and perhaps something in March. Thus, this ten-thousand-tolar proposal would be very much implemented in January. Well, according to the law on pension and disability insurance, for the date of payment of the regression and for the amount thereof, the competent assembly of the pension and disability insurance institution is responsible. As you have said, the Governing Council or the Governing Board has accepted this, but the Assembly has refused to do so, which I thought was for political reasons because there were no other special reasons. Regrettably, pensioners are mainly harmed by the rejection of this proposal. This would be a payment of approximately 5.3 billion tolars and would relatively help low-retirement pensioners. For those who have 70 or 80 thousand pensions would know ten thousand well. And this measure was socially oriented. What am I supposed to do now? Shall I propose again? The government thought about it, then sent a proposal, made such a proposal, and now I do not see any guarantee that the Assembly might change its mind. I have no guarantee of that and there is no point in proposing it. We may suggest, however, that that part of the Assembly appointed by the government should be changed. That is why I have also suggested that I consider proposing to the government to replace that part of the Assembly that represents the government. Indeed, these government representatives, put forward by the previous government, voted against the government proposal, which is unusual. They did not consult the government, they made statements to the media without consulting the government and so on. Last but not least, it was contrary to the interests of the pensioner. Of course, there were also trade unions and pensioners. In this regard, the representatives of the Assembly cannot say anything about it, either the pensioners they have or the unionists, but this is their opinion, they are assessing what is going on in this regard. That is why this is the answer: we will probably propose a change in the members of the congregation by the government, which we have not thought about in the first period. We assumed and expected these government representatives to act wisely and prudently. Since this was not the case, there is a logical consequence that it is necessary [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Proposal for an amendment. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u195	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr Aleš Gulič to the Minister for Health, Dr Andre Bručan, will raise the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u196	Mr Vice-President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr Andrej Bručan. The Union of Slovenian Consumers has recently, at least twice, and lastly, on 12 January this year informed the public in various ways that it is a Mutual, i.e. a health insurance company, has again invited its insurers to convert their life-support insurance into insurance for only 12 years, which the Mutual then justified by the fact that, with the envisaged 14% of the premiums in March this year, insurers can thus provide an unaltered premium price. Such 12-year contracts may, of course, be harmful for insurers, but above all, it is problematic that in all these letters the Mutual does not provide comprehensive information or not at all. Nor is it how high the cost of the cancellation of life support insurance can be. So they're taking advantage of some kind of interference, or they're taking advantage of the beginning of a new rule. I wonder: Why has the Ministry or the Minister of Health so far not published any information or position on the mutual offer mentioned and on those contracts, as proposed by the insurance company, even though the Consumers' Union also publicly called on it on 12 January? Second question: What is it so far and what will the Ministry of Health or the authorities within the Ministry do in the future to protect the interests of the insured? And also: How will it work for those many insurers who have responded to this offer Mutual and have already entered into new contracts to terminate their life insurance and transform it into a 12-year-old. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u198	Dear President! My friend Gulic, thank you so much for asking. The Ministry of Health examined the situation, the situation in the field of health insurance, supplementary or voluntary health insurance immediately after the adoption of the mandate, and found that the Ministry of Health in its previous composition had in fact done nothing to protect the public interest and interests of the insured in the past four years, which was their legal obligation and duty. Various demagogic statements about the appointment of a commission, working groups, of course, have only caused confusion among insurers. Therefore, those insured persons are still subject to various forms of inadequate and even harmful offers from insurance undertakings carrying out voluntary health insurance. One of these is also from the Mutual Insurance Company. More! I can say that this area is also due to some legal inconsistencies and legal voids that are completely disorderly or largely disorderly, which also threatens the health security of the population. I must say that the Union of Consumers has also pointed out this former government in November and, of course, this government has not responded. We were warned by the Union of Consumers for the first time on 12 January, and then after three days in an interview, I said my position, a personal position, on this issue. However, I must say that the Mutual is a separate legal society that makes its own decisions through the Management Board and the Assembly. At that time, I made it clear that I do not support the proposals of the Mutual for the modification of contracts to 12 years, because this is harmful for insurers, as these contracts will also, on the other hand, by adopting amendments and supplementing the Health and Insurance Act and, in particular, by introducing compensatory schemes, cease to work or enter into force already this year. However, as a result of this termination of these contracts, the insurers will not be harmed. However, the Ministry has not examined in more detail all the other offers that have arisen in this area, so it is not possible to comment on all of their content at this time. However, I must inform you that the Ministry of Health, to date 24.1.2005, has prepared new work materials for the introduction of compensatory schemes in the field of supplementary health insurance and their progressive application and the protection of public interest, because the previous Ministry failed in four years. This will be achieved by amending health legislation, in accordance with the law on current insurance, in accordance with European practice and with European Directive No. 92/49 EEC In addition, the Ministry of Health is preparing, in accordance with the obligations set out in the Coalition Treaty, some of the necessary amendments to the Health and Health Insurance Act, such as: protection of socially disadvantaged groups of insured persons - I mean, above all, pensioners with a protective allowance, beneficiaries of guaranteed salaries and unemployed persons - and changes in some of the bases for paying health insurance contributions, and some changes in the area of compensation for hospital absences. The Ministry of Health will propose a package of these amendments and additions to the government for consideration following current projections in mid-February 2005.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u199	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr Srečko Friend's question to the Minister of Health follows, again.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u200	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I would like to ask the Minister of Health a few questions about the hospital. The Sežan hospital is building a dialysis center for which it has obtained the necessary concession. The equipment will cost 150 million tolars. The dialysis centre is built on the needs of this region and is built entirely on the basis of a lease agreement to be paid over the next decade. Let me mention that in the past, Sežana had 20 hospital beds taken away from the hospital and 10 hospital hospitals and 10 Šempetr; these two hospitals did not have any specialist pulmologists at the time. Despite having experienced a difficult period during this period, the hospital later obtained a programme of Spelotherapy, which is unique in Slovenia, and thus became recognizable in us and abroad. Today, however, this activity, as I have already said, also wants to expand with the treatment of patients who are in urgent need of dialysis. Sežana Hospital ended its business year in 2003 and 2004 with negative figures, not because of the poor work done, but because of the non-revalorized price of these two years - a loss of 41 million tolars in this area - and a loss of 34 million tolars in two years due to the overwork done. I therefore ask the Minister: Will the Ministry of Health provide financial assistance to the hospital for the dialysis centre, including for the purchase of equipment? And: Will it respond positively to this claim, expressed unequivocally in 79 million tolars? Of course, I expect the Minister and I to look together at a problem that is even more complex, because the building itself is already in bad shape and needs, as an attribute of the city, this hospital's comprehensive approach to solving this problem. I hope that more will be done in this government than in the previous two. I would once again urge the Minister to find time in the coming period and to take a look at this issue in Sežana together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u201	Thank you. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u202	Thank you once again very much, Mr President, and to Mr Ambassador Happy Friend. Now, I've known the problem of the Seine Hospital for a long time, four years ago, from the first ministry in the so-called Bajuk government. I must say that at that time we have set some guidelines for the resolution of the problem of the hospital and that some have also been implemented in the later four-year period. Here I am thinking mainly of the extended hospital treatment programme, which represented 58% of the entire annual hospital budget in 2004. In this context, 40 million tolls of over-expenditure have actually emerged. 15% - the value of the surplus programme paid from voluntary insurance, the hospital gets paid in any case. Even when it comes to over-expenditures, which means that there is actually a minus in operation in this account of about 34 million tolars. As you know, the payment system for hospital operators is based on the prospective limitation of the payment of the programme. Up to the level planned, which ensures financial stability in the financing of health care. This is true in most countries around the world. Exceeding data in 2004 will also be used in the definition of the hospital activity programme for 2005, which will also identify a possible change in the gross care day price for the general hospital programme or the extended hospital treatment programme. In 2002, it increased from 12,000 to 18,000, which means 51%. However, in 2003 and 2004, the additional resources for the programme were not intended to increase the price, but rather to increase the scope of the programme, which consequently increased the accessibility of the population to the health service in question. The investment programme for the construction and equipping of the dialysis centre was launched by Sežana Hospital itself. At that time, the Ministry of Health, as I was informed, was not involved, but was not involved. Without the participation of the Ministry of Health. This project was therefore not included in the budget funding or in the Development Programmes of the Republic of Slovenia for 2004 or 2005. Due to ongoing projects, it is also not possible for this moment to put the project somehow into the 2005 budget balance, although we will talk about it in particular. If the Ministry or the Committee on Investments under the Law on Investments in Public Health Institutions considered the opening of a dialysis centre to be a priority compared to other needs, of course it would be possible to provide part of the equipment from the investment project - equipment for several public health institutions. That's not what we're talking about. On this occasion, it might also be said that we are preparing special insurance for long-term treatment, within which many of these problems, which now exist, will be easier to solve - not to say they can be solved, but easier to solve. But I must also say that at the same time I am happy to accept your invitation to Sežana, where I will come, as well as to all other Slovenian hospitals, because we have already started this plan. But we can really talk there, maybe more specifically about the situation in Sezhana.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u203	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Can I help you, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u204	Mr. Secretary, I didn't quite get you, but I'd like to ask you one more time. For so-called excessive programmes, there is a special fund at your ministry, which is 540 million tolars, and I wonder: How will these funds be shared, will Sežana reach its 75 million tolars or not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u205	If I answer that for a moment. We didn't talk about this once, if Séžana comes in or doesn't. We will take this proposal into account in any way and, if possible, Sežana will also receive these funds. However, I must say that we are somehow preparing another way of solving the problem of the negative cumulative debt of Slovenian hospitals, in which Sežana will certainly be.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u206	Thank you very much. The question will be raised by Mrs Mag. Majda Potter to the Minister of Culture. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u207	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Minister Simuniti, distinguished other members of the government. Recent statements by some high-level government officials predict the establishment of new municipalities, with particular emphasis being placed on the need to respect people's will more than the legal criteria. Article 13 of the Law on Local Self-Government states when it is considered that the municipality is capable of meeting the needs and interests of its inhabitants and of fulfilling the statutory tasks prescribed. There are 8 conditions listed and among them is a library. I would like to draw attention to this condition with a special purpose, since the Librarianship Act, adopted in 2001, sets out what the municipality must provide for the conduct of library activities as a public service. This is enshrined in Articles 2 and 16 of the Law, and other articles refer to the functioning of libraries, and I believe that this is particularly important to me. Local communities often complain about the new obligations imposed by the State on local communities without providing funds for them. In the case of libraries, it is not a new obligation, but the obligations between the state and the local community are divided by the established work, after which the country contributes a smaller share than the municipality, but also provides 230 tolls per capita within the appropriate spending. Some municipalities complain that costs cannot be incurred and, in particular, there is a complication in the division of assets in the formation of new municipalities, and the law on local self-government in 51.b and 51.c., in some others, the principles under which these balance-sheets are carried out. Problems in the adoption of the instruments or in the provision of the financial resources necessary to carry out the basic activities of the general libraries in an undiminished manner have arisen, for example, in Storrah, Murski Sobota, Lenart, Maribor, but there are no effective levers to address them. That is why I ask you, Mr. Minister, what strategy does the Ministry of Culture intend to set for the maintenance and development of the general library network? Will it maintain the current model of division of obligations between the local community and the country and recover its respect, or will it develop a different model of financing general libraries and in which directions? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u208	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, Dr. Simoniti.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u209	Madam Member, thank you for your questions, I think there have been three. So, given what you asked, what strategy the Ministry intends to set up: whether it will maintain the current model or develop a different model of financing general libraries, I am giving you the next answer based on the strategy. Thus, the network of general libraries covers, as is generally known, 61 general libraries with local libraries involved, among these general libraries are 10 regional libraries, which carry out coordination tasks for their areas, of course. The Ministry of Culture does not, for the time being, intend to modify the entire territory of Slovenia, but in particular not to crush on any smaller libraries, as this would mean, of course, an increase in costs, work and the dispersion of funds for the purchase of library materials, which would of course reduce the quality of the collections themselves. Library collections in each region are designed so that the district library has the most materials and is, of course, more difficult in nature, and the general libraries distribute the scope and complexity of the material within their networks according to the needs of the population. This creates a structure that allows users to move from the local to the central to the district and the national library. In addition, we also have special libraries and structures, of course, concerning special libraries. At the Ministry, we believe that such a library network structure in Slovenia has been and is successful. Therefore, the Ministry of now established networks on this general library strategy does not intend to change it, but wants to maintain it in this form and to develop it in particular in the sense of local information centres, which will offer citizens, in addition to lending materials, universally accessible information, particularly those which are important for lifelong education and for people's participation in public life. With this we also want to follow the Lisbon strategy and train libraries to participate in information lifelong learning, all by bringing the library closer to the user, his environment, that is, the natural or local environment, using modern information and communication technology. If the Ministry retains the current model of division of obligations between the local community and the state; and [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] for his respect, but here's the big problem. The Library Act provides that general libraries are financed by local communities. Many congregations that did not decide to co-establish libraries when these congregations were formed felt that their obligations would be reduced. This is not possible because it is their duty to provide the people with the same library activity. Thus, there is now discontent or discontent among them, mainly because they were not co-founders, but they must fulfill their duties, and now there is discomfort in view of the fact that they cannot influence the management decisions of libraries. However, the current law allows the co-establishment of all municipalities for which libraries operate. In fact, there is no problem that they cannot approach co-establishment. With regard to the scope of the financing, the law provides that the municipality must finance the library activity to the extent that it is able to carry out its public service. This occurs, as you have already mentioned, or as was the case with your question, a major problem, since the municipalities mostly advocate the view that they are autonomous in their decision to finance libraries and that they do not have to take into account the financial plans of libraries. On the other hand, they say that they are not financially capable of financing to take over the level of funding for the smooth implementation of the tasks of libraries. The Ministry is well aware of these problems and estimates that, in most cases, the consequences of unequal development options are because individual municipalities are equally materially strong to say so, and cannot fully guarantee the deficits of these funds. Of course, we understand or detect this problem, and we see a solution that should be found in Community funding legislation, which should provide developmentally disadvantaged municipalities with sufficient resources to meet their financial obligations to libraries and other public services. This means that we should enter this country directly. The Ministry intends to strengthen its cooperation in the financing of libraries. Of course, in particular with a view to achieving the objectives of the national programme. It also expects an understanding of the National Assembly, of course in providing the necessary resources within the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, in particular respect for the legislation on cultural toll. Now if I had time, I'd be fine, but the lady will ask. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u210	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. It's been a while.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u211	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u212	Please, ma'am.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u213	Mr Minister, in particular, I thank you for your answer to the first question. It would be surprising if we responded in a different way, because we want to become not only an information society, but also a knowledge society, but the laws spell out exactly what we have actually done with the national cultural programme. Article 21 also instructs municipalities to promote or perform information-documentation tasks, that is to say everything related to libraries and you have said exactly. Of course, practical problems may sometimes be in the implementation of a sub-law. This would draw attention to the regulation on how to determine the total costs of central libraries providing library activities in several municipalities and the costs of local libraries. In particular, a library may have to pay twice for a Biblebus. And it might be good to look at another document, which then causes tension between co-founders. I understand the warning you gave me that congregations could become cofounders. In my opinion, there is a greater problem when some municipalities, due to their unwillingness to assume some of the responsibilities arising from co-founding, reject the adoption of the founding documents and thus the regular functioning of the library. Thank you. Now you'll probably be able to tell me the rest of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u214	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u215	Thank you very much, Madam Ambassador. The obligation to co-finance libraries does not come from co-establishment itself. The municipalities must co-finance these libraries. Of course, the problem arises just as we have already found that they are unevenly strong. In this regard, it was also prescribed that congregations should contribute to the individual population. This was already debated in November last year. I think the Ministry's efforts have been considerable. They also negotiated the amount of these funds. The Ministry insisted that the congregations should carry out their duties. I think that even now, I don’t think, he’s also insisting now that the congregations have to settle their debt. It was concluded at the end of last year that we should do so by the end of the year, that is, by the end of December, but not yet. The Ministry advocates the view that the financing of general libraries should continue to be the responsibility of individual municipalities. As it is aware of this problem, it also sees and considers any additional legislation which would define more precisely the financing of general libraries, as well as those mutual obligations of the municipalities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u216	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Han will raise the question to the Minister for Transport, Mr Mag. Christmas. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u217	Thank you so much for saying that. Honourable Vice-President, Honourable Ministers, Members and Members of Parliament. Dear Mr. Minister Mag. Janez Christmas. My question concerns the law on public roads or the issue of land registration, which was used for the construction or reconstruction of a public road until the law was implemented, but is not included in the land book as social property in order to register in the land book as a public good. You are certainly aware that local communities, including the municipality of Laško, which has already taken such an initiative to the Ministry of Transport and the municipality of Radeče, have established such entries in the Land Book on the basis of Article 85 of the Law on Public Roads, which was repealed by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia in spring 2002, which, inter alia, would allow for an excessive interference in the ownership rights of landowners, irrespective of the fact that in such cases the public interest of the legalisation of local public roads is clearly expressed. On the other hand, landowners were granted the right to compensation under the general rules of civil law. As a result of this fact, the local communities are now increasingly confronted with the problem of physical barriers to transport by categorised local roads and public roads or by blackmailing disproportionately high compensations and purchases for land through which these roads are run by their owners. Therefore, Mr Minister, I ask you: What solutions are you preparing at the Ministry of Transport to speed up the problem of the registration of these land into the land book and to remove the obstruction of public transport by categorised local roads and roads? On this occasion, I invite you, on your behalf and on behalf of the mayors of both the municipality of Laško and Radeče, to come to our congregation, to get to know this problem in detail and also to introduce you to the problem or to the extremely poor condition of the G15 motorway, that is Celje-Drnovo or Krško, especially in the Radeče municipality and in the municipality of Laško and probably also in the neighbouring municipalities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u218	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u219	Thank you very much for the word, honourable Member Matjaž Han, for the question raised. You correctly note that Article 85 of the Law on Public Roads allowed the registration of land used for the construction or reconstruction of public roads into the land book after a reduced procedure. However, it allowed the owners of the land concerned to obtain compensation. It is stated in the Constitutional Court’s decision that, in the light of the judgment of an infringement of property law under Article 69 of the Constitution, the law cannot have direct dissuasive effects and, consequently, cannot remedy the possible dissolution of a sub-law. Therefore, the Constitutional Court repealed the relevant Article 85 of the Law on Public Roads. This problem cannot be solved by amendments to the Law on Public Roads or by any other regulation in the field of roads. According to the Constitutional Court’s decision, the issue can be solved on the basis of a concluded purchase contract with the Land Bookholder or when an agreement is not possible on the basis of a legal decision on the decommissioning under the applicable rules in the field of land regulation, i.e. the spatial act of the local community, in the case of a municipal road, an example. Of course, Mr. Ambassador, I would be happy to respond to your invitation. However, I think I know this road from Celje to Drnov to Laskov, or onward, so to the course of Krskov. On this occasion, when we discuss what the real problem is, whether the ministry can help in this case, of course we will be happy to help.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u220	Thank you very much. Mr Mag will ask the next question. Sajovic to the Minister without a licence, responsible for local self-government and regional development, Dr. Žagar. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u221	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word. Once again, hello to all present. In the field of local self-government, especially in the field of community operations, many problems, including irregularities and the like, are noted in the Slovenian criterion. I am particularly interested in the role of the opposition at the level of local self-government, at the level of the municipalities, because we all know that the opposition is the most necessary and integral part of every democracy. Thus, the control of the position and, above all, the control of the position is the most natural and normal task of the opposition. Whether it is a matter at the level of the State or the municipalities, some mechanisms must be put in place for this legal and financial control, and I do not think that this is the case. Therefore, I would like to ask the Minister the following question: Do you think that the law on local self-government should provide that at least one seat of the opposition belongs to the supervisory committee of the municipality? Under democratic rules, the opposition should probably belong in the control of the majority. As an example of such a solution, I refer to the National Assembly, because in the Committee on Budgetary Control and other public finances, the President's seat belongs to the members of the opposition parliamentary groups. It makes no sense that the ruling coalition in the congregation is controlling itself, and we are finally convinced by the poor financial conditions of some congregations. These problems would certainly be smaller if timely and timely attention were to be given to them. In particular, such a solution is meaningful and necessary because the financial control of the state over the municipalities is particularly modest and is largely very slow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u222	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, Dr. Jagar.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u223	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Thank you for the question, Mr Member. I agree with you, of course, in that part, that adequate participation of the opposition should be ensured in the supervisory committees of the municipalities. However, I must point out that the Local Self-Government Act, in accordance with the principles of local self-government autonomy, provides only the most necessary legal framework for the organisation of the municipality. Thus, on the basis of Articles 3 and 6 of the European Charter on Local Self-Government, the specificisation of the composition of organs is left to the municipal council. Personally, I think it would be reasonable to define this role of the opposition in the very rules of procedure of the municipal council, even if you draw a parallel with the national assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u224	Thank you very much. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u225	With you, Minister, I agree and thank you very much for such a, I will say, flat and principled answer. However, the problem is that the opposition, which is in the majority, adopts the same rules of procedure and also the municipal council, so that it can provide for itself and control itself. I come from a congregation where, for example, a woman as president of a supervisory committee controls her husband, who is the director of a municipal company. The wives of the saints in position control their husbands and so on. The opposition, however, does not have a single representative in the supervisory council after two mandates. I am of the opinion that this is a systemic error which must be regulated by the law on local self-government, not every current municipal government in the municipal world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u226	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u227	Thank you for your word. As far as the law on local self-government is concerned, it will come into procedure anyway. We will be able to shed light on this issue in this regard as well. However, I would point out that the congregations are very different and that the composition of the municipal councils is very different, so it is often a clear question to raise the role of the opposition. Therefore, I think these questions are extremely complex and will also need to be thoroughly enlightened in this regard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u228	Thank you very much. Ms Marjetka Uhan will raise the next question to the Minister for Transport, Mr Mag. Christmas.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u229	Thank you very much for your word. I'm going back to the same problem again. This time I am asking the Minister of Transport, Mr Janez Bozic. When is the start of construction on the vital part of the lower section of the highway Pluska - Hrastje? Is the construction of the motorway planned after the national programme already adopted? Will this section be built by 2007 or 2007, as has been promised several times? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u230	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u231	Thank you very much for your words and thank you very much for your question on the same subject that has already been answered by the Minister for Environment and Space. As Minister of Transport, I assure you that we will anticipate the construction of the section of the motorway past Trebnje as soon as the section is placed in the space and when the government will of course adopt the location plan. The Ministry of Transport will immediately include this section in the annual plan for the development and renewal of motorways, which the Government agrees to adopt. Also in the role of Prime Minister Dars in recent years, I have been extremely involved in the accelerated construction of the lower motorway leg, so that two-thirds of the length of the entire lower motorway leg has been built to date. I believe that by the end of this year, the government will be able to adopt a site plan for this section, and in this case land purchases will be designed and the first call for the selection of the contractor will be made in the coming year so that this section will also be built by the end of 2008 at the latest. This is how it functions in the planning documents, and of course we will fully implement the programme in accordance with the national programme. At that time, the entire valley motorway leg will also be completed. So the year 2008 is a fictitious year in the national highway construction programme and not in 2007. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u232	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u233	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u234	Thank you. Finally, the final question of the matter will be put by Mr Cwickl to the Minister for Finance, Dr Bayuk. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u235	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. As announced, my oral question relates to the fact that the Slovenian public explains 24th in the month of Slovenia by the Minister of Finance, what are the results of the 2004 state budget. In this regard, of course, I must say that the competent budgetary and other public finances monitoring committee has had to intervene twice. Finally, I have also written to the Minister myself to obtain what belongs to us under the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of this Commission, and this is information on monitoring the implementation of the State budget. We then obtained this information orally through the representative, Madam Acting Director, also. However, neither the Secretary of State nor the Minister of Finance has considered it necessary to cooperate and present this information on the implementation of the 2004 budget, which they could have had a significant impact on since 3 December, of course remains in the air. In this regard, of course, one of the important dilemmas that has arisen in the finalisation of the state budget account is also related to what we have heard several times today. Several ministers were asked what the so-called payment was, taking into account that the pension register has good liquidity and an early retirement allowance. In this regard, let me at least remind the Minister of Finance, as he participated in the work of the Committee on Budgetary Control and other public finances, that in 2003, the Court of Auditors found that at the end of the year, the government allocated the surplus of the state budget to cover the pension fund debt, which, of course, allowed the debt of the pension fund to be reduced to 17 billion at the end of 2003, in particular at the end of 2004. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, according to the director of the Directorate's duties on 31 January evening, found that the revenue of the State budget for 2004 would be much better by 12 billion than that adopted in this National Assembly. The government, the Ministry of Finance, could have all the powers to do so in the law on the implementation of the budget referred to today by ZIPR, because of the favourable results of the 2004 state budget. She had enough time, the same legal basis, to further reduce her pension debt. But the government didn't do it. So why didn't you actually act at the end of the year as any finance minister was supposed to do, and this is to reduce public debt as much as possible? [[..]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Of course, that was possible. [[...]] So the results of the 2004 budget and your operation at the end of the year. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u236	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, Dr. Bayuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u237	Thank you very much. First of all, as regards the presence of the Minister, or the Secretary of State at meetings of working bodies in the National Assembly. It is difficult for any minister to participate on a commission or working body if the working body convenes meetings at the same time as a government meeting. That is precisely why we have concluded in the government that, with the leadership of the National Assembly, we will actually organise this in such a way that now the appointed Directors-Generals can also represent ministers on working bodies, which is perfectly normal and should be the case. As regards the implementation of the 2004 budget. The fact is that the Member is certainly aware of the fact that the final account is actually preparing that there are certain reports that have already been submitted, but otherwise I can very much repeat them here in essence. The balance of revenue and expenditure of last year's budget shows about 12 billion lower deficits than what was planned. The total revenue was 1,515 billion, which is 40 billion less than planned, so the revenue fell by 40 billion, and total expenditure also fell to 52 billion, which is why the deficit is actually 12 billion less than planned. The fiscal stabiliser foreseen by the law has not been used. In the financial claims and investments account, the deficit is 1.6 billion lower than the planned, large-scale account of the higher returns from the loans repaid and the higher remuneration from the privatisation purchases paid. The budget was set at 264 billion in 2004 and the net debt amounted to about 79 billion, 25 billion less than planned, which is also in line with how income and expenditure behaved. The main reason for the relatively large deviation from the budget adopted is in a significantly smaller volume of flows, if I may say so, to the Slovenian parts of the budget and to the EU budget. We have invested a good 4 billion less in the European budget than planned and have received 36 and a half billion less from it. Last year's budget was, of course, the first budget, including flows from and to the EU budget. Slovenia has received almost 44 billion EU budget funds, and it has paid almost 41 billion, so the net effect of both flows was positive for Slovenia in the amount of good three billion. Such a net situation is significantly lower than planned, although at the end of the financial year all budgetary mechanisms were available to allow the funds to be drawn up almost the last day of the year, irrespective of the provision of the Minister of Finance, which, under the law on the implementation of the budget, required more control over all expenditure in the first days of October. It should also be said that the specific budget account has been paid for the Schengen resource of 9.2 billion and an advance of 5.8 for the implementation of the structural policy. A more detailed review of budgetary revenues shows that, despite the 23 billion tax drop on value added, tax revenue was only lower by five and a half billion, mainly at the expense of higher excise duties, profit tax and property sales tax. Non-tax revenue exceeded the planned volume, despite the fact that the concession for UMTS was not realized. On the one hand, the lower expenditure is due to unexpended and unpaid projects, I repeat, lower expenditure is due on the one hand to unexpended and unpaid projects to be paid from the Structural and Cohesion Fund of pre-accession aid and from the Schengen resource of around 33 billion. There are also some other expenditure, transfers to the 7.8 billion pension fund, transfers from Dars 7 billion last year, which were the first to receive value added tax refunds of 8.8, as mentioned above, and lower payments to the European budget of 4.4. If we close the 2004 budget implementation assessment, I can conclude that the macroeconomic objectives have been achieved, but that the structure of the budget [[Incomprehensible - a warning sign for the end of the debate.]] significantly worse than planned in the adopted budget, indicating that budget expenditure could, if fully achieved, contribute a greater share of economic growth and development. [[...]] Let me mention that now, in the preparation of the final accounts, we will also be able to report to the National Assembly what was actually happening in the area of expenditure. The fact is that the largest unused funds are located in the following areas: in the field of science and technological development, minus five billion, of which 1 billion are in the EU account; the other are non-executive things; the main programme for scientific and research activities is technological development; the active policy for employment is minus 4.2 million of which can be attributed to the EU; the unrealised programmes linked to local self-government are the result of EU funds, and some incapacity is shown; the relative inability to draw on virtually all ministries of the exception may be agriculture; the programmes to increase competitiveness of 2.5 billion, as envisaged, were not used; the investments in hospital care-minus 3.5 billion were then finally included in the budget fund currently with 10.4 billion. The budget for the implementation of the budget actually ended with a smaller deficit than planned for 12 billion. As income fell by 40 billion, this is less than anticipated, but at the same time, the expenditure fell by 52. The consequences will be more clear when we have more concrete information on the implementation of specific programmes. In principle, I have instructed you here what are the programs that have suffered the most as far as enforcement is concerned. In fact, it is very worrying that it has proved to be, as I said, a relative incompetence or inefficiencies in terms of drawing on European funds, which requires our greatest attention now in the coming weeks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u238	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u239	Thank you for allowing Mr Minister the extra time to explain what was good to explain. In more than 20 hours of debate on the Commission, I must first say that the Commission held a meeting on 15 December, on 11 January at one time when there was no government meeting, and only two meetings, where we did not address the Ministry of Finance, were held at the time of the government meeting. Mr Minister, the fourth paragraph of Article 235 states that ministers, state secretaries or heads of bodies are present at the meetings of working bodies, and we would like at least state secretaries to attend these meetings if we are to play our part. I'd like an answer to a question, Mr. Minister. My question was: on 31 January evening, basically at four o'clock in the afternoon, I do not know if you knew that, it was clear that, in accordance with the mandate of the law on the implementation of the budget, it was possible to devote 12 additional billions to the pension fund to reduce the debt. My specific question was: Did you know that, or if you knew that, why didn't you do it? As this would make it important to enable the pension fund to reduce its debt and, of course, 12 billion debt cuts means at the interest rate of the circus 600 million less the annual interest needs. However, I would like the answer to this first question of mine, because you have not answered it. However, the additional issue is related to these European funds. The role of the Ministry of Finance is very important here. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u240	That's another additional question.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u241	The first question was not answered, I merely reminded the Minister not to answer. Additional question [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u242	Thank you. There are no further questions.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u243	However, the additional issue is, of course, linked to what the Minister has said, namely EU funding. Mr. Zhagar said there would be a meeting tomorrow. I suppose you'll spend a lot of time at this meeting. [[....]] [[Incomprehensible - a warning sign for the end of the debate.]] I would like to know what the Ministry of Finance will do in this regard to ensure that funds already used in Slovenia come only from Slovenia, because these funds have already affected high economic growth in 2004. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u244	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u245	Thank you very much. I would like to draw the attention of all honourable Members and Members to the fact that the Commission on Budgetary Control has actually addressed the closure of the 2003 account. For 2003, the current government in these six weeks or seven, since we have been responsible, has not had the best answers and it was not as important if I was not present. The fact is that this is a final account and what happened in the area of public finances when there was a different composition of the government in our country. In fact, you will deal with the final account for 2005, as you well know, Mr Member, if luckily it will be, and if we may be more successful than in the past, at the end of 2006. Therefore, you will have to wait a little longer to be able to call the current government to account on your committee, because next year it will not be until 2004. Well, as for the specific question of what we will do tomorrow at the coordination meeting, of course we will report on this. But the fact is, we would be happy to see that the funds would be better pumped than they have been so far. You are also well aware and must be aware of this, since you have also been a member of this government in the past, that verification and ensuring that the funds have actually been used for the right purposes and in accordance with the standards required by the European Union is a very important work. And that's why we have seven people in Slovenia, currently in the administration, and what we just inherited, who are not partial to all this work. The other 4 are responsible for carrying out internal inspections concerning 3,000 indirect budgetary users. This is about the possibility that all these things will be carried out in this way. That is exactly what we will be very careful about, and we will try to find such solutions that we can draw and demand from Europe these funds once we ensure that they have actually been used in accordance with the standards, because we are not yet able to ensure this. However, as regards the provision of drawing, this will require all ministries, not only the Ministry of Finance, to make a very special effort to do so. The fact is, as I told you in my first presentation, we drew much less. These funds will be available if we are able to prove all of this, and if we are to accelerate that projects that are expected to be so well prepared will actually be implemented and invoiced to the European Union on the basis of their standards, not our old stable and unpredictable practices. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-24-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u246	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. With this, the list of all the questions sent has been exhausted. I thank Mr Prime Minister and Mr Ministers for the answers given. I hereby conclude the first item of the agenda. I am adjourning the 2nd session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. Good night!
