ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u1	I begin the continuation of the 12th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Josip Bajc until 4.00 p.m., Bogdan Barovic, Sam Bevk, Master of Milan M. Zvikl, Drago Koren, Dimitrij Kovačič, Dr Mitja Slavinec from 17:00 p.m. and Master of Franc Žnidaršič. Before we start point 1.a. On the agenda, let me inform you that we have just arrived at an informal meeting of the President and Vice-Presidents, of course, that point 1.a and point b are thus closely linked. It is a proposal for a decision on the call for a referendum and setting up referendum areas for the establishment of municipalities and for the establishment or modification of their areas, and then point 1.b of the proposal for a decision on the conclusion that the individual areas do not meet the conditions for the establishment of a municipality or for the modification of its territory. If we continued the meeting as envisaged, we could come into a situation where, for example, certain decisions would be taken in the decision, and then certain amendments, pardons, amendments which would, of course, deny the decision. For this reason, we have come to the conclusion that, at the meeting of the leaders of the parliamentary groups in room 217, we will now try to reach a conclusion that the decision is to be voted on immediately after the discussion is concluded, as this will make the situation much clearer before the debate on the decision begins. That is why I am now adjourning until 10:20 p.m., and I ask all leaders of the parliamentary groups to report immediately to room 217. Thank you very much. So 10.20 goes on.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u2	Dear fellow Members and Members! Before moving to point 1a of the agenda, this is to the contrary the proposal for a decision on the description of the referendum and the determination of the referendum areas for the establishment of municipalities and the determination of the amendments to their respective areas, I should like to inform you of the decision taken by the leaders of the groups of Members. In order to facilitate the implementation of the debate and vote on the two acts I spoke about earlier, i.e. the decision and the decision, we agreed that we would first discuss the decision, all the amendments, and then we would vote on the decision and amendments at 4 p.m. at the end of the debate or at the latest at 4 p.m. at 4 p.m. Thus, we will have a clear situation before the debate on the decision and the amendments to the conclusion, so that we know what we can vote on or which amendments will be automatically meaningless in relation to the decision. So, I repeat, we begin the debate on the decree and amendments. When this debate is concluded, there will be a vote in half an hour, or no later than 4 p.m. Thank you so much for understanding. We are now formally starting with a motion for a decree submitted by the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development in its consideration of the Council. I give the floor to the Chairman of the Committee, Paul Rupar, to further explain the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u3	Dear Mr President, distinguished Mr Minister and representatives of the government, colleague and colleague, nice greeting! First, allow me a few words about the ongoing process of setting up municipalities or changing their areas. At its June session, the National Assembly adopted amendments to the Law on Local Self-Government, which entered into force on 13 August this year. With the entry into force of the Law, the Law on the Procedure for the Establishment of Communities and for the establishment of their areas of 1996 ceased to apply. Following the amendment of the law, the procedure in the National Assembly shall begin when a law-abiding or municipal council proposes a change in the territory of the municipalities or the establishment of a new congregation. Although the process itself is not formally linked to the deadlines, the service of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for local self-government and regional policy published a notice on its website on 7.9.2005 to all mayors and mayors on the amendments to the law on local self-government regarding the provisions on changes in the areas of municipalities and the establishment of new municipalities. It informs them, inter alia, that the last regular local elections were held on 10 November 2002 and that the first deadline for the call for the next local elections is 25.6.2006. This means that the procedure for the change of areas or for the establishment of new municipalities, as provided for by law, must be completed three months before the first possible date for the call for regular local elections, no later than 25 March 2006. At the same time, the government service has also given more detailed instructions on the deadlines for the submission of proposals to the National Assembly, which is the deadline for the applicants to ensure that the procedure under the parliamentary and government procedures is completed in accordance with the law. This will allow the newly established municipalities to hold regular local elections in the municipal council in 2006. For all the other proposals that the applicants will continue to make to the National Assembly, the procedure will be carried out later and the newly established municipality will be able to hold local elections and will only be established at the next regular local elections, that is, in 2010. In autumn this year, the National Assembly launched a procedure to change the territory of the municipalities or to establish a new municipality pursuant to Article 14 of the Law on Local Self-Government on proposals tabled by the Constitution and the Law by certain proposers following the adoption of the Law. Thus, within a good two-month period, the National Assembly received 33 proposals for the establishment of new municipalities, two proposals for the modification of the municipalities and nine proposals for the change of status, namely municipalities. Proposals that were submitted by the municipal councils to the municipal councils or city councils by the municipal councils in the process. In early November this year, he sent all the proposals together with the opinions received to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Some of the proposals were complementary, but by its 50th meeting on 24 November 2005, the government had been able to deliver an opinion on all the proposals submitted to the National Assembly until then. The opinion on the proposals for the establishment of municipalities, for the establishment of new areas, for the modification of the areas of municipalities and for the modification of the status of municipalities was sent to the National Assembly for consideration. In view of the fact that the applicants were still supplementing the proposals after that government meeting, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, at its 90th letter meeting, also considered the proposal to divide the current municipality of Dobrova - Polhov Gradec into two municipalities and found that the proposal met the conditions under the law on local self-government. The government then re-examined the proposal for the establishment of new municipalities at its 52nd regular meeting and found that the proposal for the establishment of the municipality of Bizeljsko also met the laws under the law on local self-government. The Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development considered the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on proposals for the establishment of municipalities, for the establishment of their areas, for the modification of the municipalities and for the modification of the status of municipalities as follows: On the basis of the Government's opinion, a working paper was prepared at the Committee's meeting for a proposal for a decision on the call for a referendum and setting up referendum areas for the establishment of municipalities and for the establishment or modification of their areas, which included all proposals for which the Government considered that they met the legal conditions for the change of the municipality or for the establishment of a new municipality. On the basis of the Government's opinion, a proposal for a decision was also drawn up as a working material to conclude that the individual areas fulfil the conditions for the establishment of a municipality, for the change of its territory and for the change of the status of municipalities. The Committee held a general debate on the opinion of the Government, the proposal for a decree and a proposal for a decision, and on the proposals of legally-defined proposers for the establishment of municipalities, for the identification of their areas and for the modification of the areas of municipalities. Some have critically assessed the conditions laid down by the last amendment of the Local Self-Government Act, in particular the condition of two thousand inhabitants as the lower limit of the number of inhabitants in cases where the area where the new municipality is to be established meets other conditions under the law. According to some, it is possible to establish new congregations constantly. In some cases, the Government has determined whether the area in which the new municipalities are to be established fulfils the legal conditions and has decided arbitrarily. It was estimated that in almost all cases, its findings that the individual proposal met legal conditions were based on the fulfilment of exceptional conditions in the case of areas with fewer than 2,000 inhabitants. Some also referred to the recommendations of the Congress of Local and Regional Authorities of the Council of Europe, whose representatives, on their visit to Slovenia a few years ago, highlighted the problem of the fragmentation of local communities, for which they saw the cause of the inadequate funding system of municipalities, as small municipalities receive much more resources from the state budget per capita than large ones, which would result in positive discrimination in favour of smaller municipalities, as smaller municipalities also receive inadequately more State funds to co-finance investments than greater. Among other things, advocates of that opinion stressed that trends in local self-government in Europe are moving towards bringing together small municipalities, both in Germany and in other developed countries. An additional reason for us to reduce or reflect on the integration of municipalities is, in their view, also in the fact that the most fragmented areas of Slovenia are increasingly lagging behind in development. In particular, the inability to prepare larger development projects in smaller municipalities based on their cooperation and integration in order to achieve a faster development objective was mentioned. Some believe that the lower limits laid down by law regarding the number of inhabitants are still too high. For some areas, it was by establishing municipalities in the past that they were able to build health homes. For example, the question was raised as to whether an area should have a medical home as a condition or only primary health care provided. Taking into account the conditions for the establishment of a new municipality as a whole, we should take into account the provision of primary health care as a condition that can also be addressed in cooperation with the neighbouring congregation or through integration in other ways. With regard to the amendments tabled to the motion for a decision and the proposal for a decision, some applicants specifically pointed out that they had been requested by the inhabitants of the individual areas, which for the second, third or even fourth time expected to be set up in the proposed area. The Committee further considered and voted on individual proposals in the motion for a decree and the amendments tabled to the proposal for a decree and the proposal for a decision tabled by Members and Members' groups. On the basis of their consideration, he decided that, in addition to the 14 proposals for which the Government, subject to strict legal conditions, had assessed that they met the conditions for the establishment of a congregation or a change of municipalities. So they gave very light to Mokronoga-Trebel, Izlakam and the Roman Heats. The Committee also decided not to hold a referendum in the area of Ankaran-Croatia for the establishment of a new municipality. This was based on the referendum will of the people expressed in all the referendums to date for the division of the Municipality of Koper and, in this case, on an inconsistently executed decision of the Constitutional Court, which speaks of the need to exclude urban urban work from the rural area and not its integration. In the case of Ankara, this is an urban settlement and in the case of Croats, it is a rural area. Finally, the Congress of the Council of Europe’s local and regional authorities, which were also present in Cyprus a long time ago, stated in its recommendations that it should also take account of the referendum made available in the area of the Municipality of Koper and complete the process of making ever-new demands for its division. In the proposal for a decision, the Committee thus concluded and included all the proposals for which the Government concluded in its opinion that they met the conditions, except for the initiative to establish the municipality of Ankaran - Croatia. The Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development, on the basis of the debate and that proposal, invites the National Assembly to adopt an act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u4	Thank you very much. I would like to take the floor to invite Minister Ivan Žagar to explain the Government's opinion.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u5	Thank you for your word. Mr President, honourable Members. In the process of establishing new municipalities, the government has received 33 proposals from the National Assembly for the establishment of new municipalities, two proposals for smaller changes in the area of municipalities and 10 proposals for the distribution of the status of the municipality. The proposals were tabled by Members of the State Assembly, Members of the National Assembly and the Council of the Community, and the Government has not tabled its proposals, and the Government has not put itself in the position of proposing. On the basis of a review of the proposals submitted, it established, in accordance with Article 14 of the Law on Local Self-Government, which proposals for the establishment of new municipalities fulfil the conditions laid down in Articles 13 and 13a of the Law on Local Self-Government. She found that the conditions for the establishment of a new municipality met 14 proposals, namely the establishment of the Municipality of Apache, Cirkulane, Kostanjevica na Krka, the Council of Trojica in Slovenski Gorica, the Centre ob Drava, Sveti Tomaž, Makole - Poljčane, Ankaran - Hrvatini, Renče - Vogrsko, Straža - Šmarješke Toplice, Bizelj and the establishment of the municipalities of Dobrova and Polhov Gradec with the division of the present municipality. She also found that the conditions for the continuation of the procedure for changing the area of the municipalities were met, namely to connect the town of Ostrovica to the municipality of Hrpelje - Kozina and to connect the village of Zagorica to the municipality of Šmartno pri Litija. It also concluded that none of the proposals submitted to amend the status of municipalities and establish a municipal municipality met the conditions laid down by law. When considering the proposals, the Government has consistently taken into account the provisions of the Law on Local Self-Government, in its area of the new municipality, the full basics of the school, primary health care of citizens, that is, health care or health care station, municipal equipment, postal services, library, that is, general or school premises for the administrative activities of the local community. In its opinion and proposal, the Government took into account the provision of the Law on Local Self-Government that the municipality may have fewer than 5,000 inhabitants at the time of the establishment of the municipality. The reasons for the exception are geographical, borderline, national, historical or economic, but the new municipality cannot have fewer than 2 000 inhabitants. All further decisions have been and are being taken in the National Assembly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u6	Thank you, too. Before we move on to the presentation of the positions of the groups of Members, I would like to remind you that the deadline for making amendments to this point, that is to say, to the ruling, has expired. With regard to the decision, i.e. point 1.b, it is possible to table amendments by the beginning of the hearing, which will obviously be there around 4 p.m. or later. I now give the floor to the representatives or representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. Ms Zalokar Orazem has the floor to present the position of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u7	Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Today, we are ahead of the important action concerning the creation of new municipalities, the establishment of areas where referendums are to be called for for the establishment of new municipalities. In doing so, we would like to reiterate in the LDS Group that the key action in this regard has already taken place in July, when the ruling coalition adopted amendments to the Law on Local Self-Government and the condition for the establishment of new municipalities has decreased to 2,000 inhabitants, with the emphasis then on - and it is also stated in Article 13a of the Law - that this should be an exception, I stress, exceptionally, for geographical, border, national, historical or economic reasons. And, unusually, in all 16 proposals for the new municipalities that we are going to decide on today, the population is less than 5,000 and therefore all the proposals are exceptions. However, neither the Government in its opinion nor the parental committee in the decision stated why there are exceptional reasons why there is agreement for referendums in all 16 municipalities. In LDS, we have already opposed such a solution when adopting the amendment of the law and have warned that exceptions will become a rule. And that's confirmed today. We therefore estimate that this is a poor, harmful and undeveloped decision, as it allows for the continuation of bad practice in our country, the continuous fragmentation of municipalities - more than a hundred new municipalities will be established in the future - as well as instability in the work of existing municipalities, as further division without time limits is also possible. In addition, we estimate that municipalities with less than 5,000 inhabitants are largely unable for human resources and organisational reasons to exercise their responsibilities, as independent foreign observers also point out if we do not want to listen to the arguments of domestic experts. Of course, we are all aware that the reason for the formation of new congregations is primarily financial, since small, isolated congregations receive more government money than they would receive as part of larger congregations. Of course, only one bag of money is available to all congregations. The measure is also irrational: only for the functioning of the new municipal administrations and their costs will be spent over a billion tolars. That is why it is a solution that only strengthens and increases centralisation. There will be more centralisation in Slovenia than will be municipalities. All of this has been pointed out by representatives of the European Community in our analysis of local self-government, who advise us to establish new municipalities, which are generally very small, and in doing so they warn us [[Quote]] : "The result is that larger municipalities stagnate in their development compared to other small municipalities, which benefit greatly from many state support." This is how European experts identify them. Therefore, in the LDS, taking into account the amendment of the law, which allows the establishment of new municipalities also under 5,000 people, in our own opinion and in our own knowledge of the exceptional situation, as the right law, we will selectively and argumentatively support the establishment of only those who, in our view, can now only fulfil this opinion. It also seems to us that we should not cause new conflicts and call for referendums where there is no consensus today, for example in the Koper municipality regarding the establishment of the Ankaran municipality and in the municipalities of Ormož and Zagorje. The reasons for the establishment of these municipalities are not the wishes of the population, but they are clearly political requirements that serve the interests of the incoming local elections. This is about government interests and not about new development options, which are evidenced by numbers and calculations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u8	Thank you very much. Mr Kontic has the floor to present the position of the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u9	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A respected minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, since the preparation and initiation of the reform of local self-government, we draw attention to the excessive fragmentation of Slovenia into small municipalities. Although many candidates have in the past justified the need or desire for their municipality by reason of faster and better development, an already absent view of the territorial division of Slovenia shows that the largest number of municipalities where the development gap is the largest. At the same time, since the beginning of the reform of local self-government, we have been reminding the fact that one of the biggest errors has been made that the reform has not been carried out in parallel at regional and local level. We have moved away from regionalism in time, and we have not moved from the dead for more than ten years now, but it is true that predictions or promises are promising, but this has also been happening for almost ten years. We are convinced that the simultaneousity of both related reforms would prevent excessive fragmentation. Of course, this is not the only reason for the demands or desires of individual parts of the present congregations after independence. One of the main reasons is certainly the existing law on the financing of municipalities, which directly encourages the establishment of new municipalities, despite the fact that we have written in one of the articles in which the law should encourage the association of municipalities, those who do not count 5,000 people in the larger municipality, has not been able to do so to date. Another reason is that individual settlements within the present municipalities are not satisfied with the status quo and the current development of their settlements. We therefore understand those who are seeking to establish their own congregation because they see the possibility of rapid development in this action. More resources for local communities and their balanced consumption within them would certainly reduce the pressure to establish new municipalities. There is certainly something very wrong with the financing of the congregations. This is convinced by the fact that only a few more than 20 municipalities are self-financing, so there is no compensation. It is necessary to change funding in a way that encourages municipalities to unite in larger local communities and not vice versa to further fragmentation, which unfortunately we are doing this time. It is very difficult for the initiators of the new congregation to explain the opposition, but in the past many exceptions have been adopted, when actual exceptions have become a rule when the prescribed conditions for the establishment of a new congregation have become some kind of development programme of these areas and their non-compliance at the time of the formation of the congregation is irrelevant. However, failure to meet the conditions at that time cannot become or remain a reason to fail to meet the conditions this time. This is not to be overlooked, however, that before the legislative and legal service has examined individual proposals for the establishment of municipalities or for the modification of their areas, it has been pointed out that it is necessary to take into account the conditions laid down in the Local Self-Government Act and, in all cases, to make the same decision. This year we changed the law on local self-government. Although the law states that at least 5,000 people live in the municipality, there is no doubt about it. However, we or you have added that, exceptionally, - I emphasise - a municipality with fewer than 5,000 inhabitants, but not less than 2 000 inhabitants. The reasons given are geographical, border and ethnic, historical or economic reasons. There are no settlements or more settlements that could not be found within the grounds that allow exceptions. This is also the case today when we decide on a decision to call for a referendum and set up referendum areas for the establishment of municipalities and for the establishment or modification of their areas. Neither of the proposals meets the requirement of 5,000 inhabitants. All proposals, except Ankara, which are in a decision which finds that it does not meet the conditions, have fewer than 5,000 inhabitants and thus become a rule again. Instigators or proponents based their proposals and there were no arguments in the process so far that they convinced the government when it assessed why one proposal did not support the other. Finally, it will decide to negotiate within Parliament, which goes beyond the party's borders and also a solid border between the coalition and the opposition. And so we will allow some to decide at the referendum, and others not on the basis of political will or political judgment. I'm pretty sure there's gonna be a lot of work here for the Constitutional Court. While the Government stated in its opinion that the provisions of the Law on Local Self-Government have been taken into account in the consideration of the proposals, which, inter alia, requires a complete primary school, primary health care for citizens, a health care facility or a health station, municipal equipment, postal services, the library, should be a general or school space for the administrative activities of local communities; in addition to these conditions, the condition already mentioned is a minimum of 5,000 inhabitants. All the rest are exceptions which must be justified, and this is lacking in the Government's opinion. Lack of argument of each exception individually. Although the government is not the one to decide in this process, it has a job that can carefully analyse proposals. The further fragmentation of municipalities is certainly not a contribution to the decentralisation of power. Although we appear to be approaching local decision-making for citizens and citizens, the actual further fragmentation of municipalities is an additional centralisation of the country. A large number of small municipalities on the one hand and a strong central authority on the other are certainly in the interest of those who do not advocate decentralisation. If I conclude, the establishment of new ones in a way; one, yes, the other, but all the exceptions that are thus becoming a rule are not acceptable to Members and Members of the Social Democrats. At the same time, we are taking advantage of this opportunity to call on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to accelerate the preparation of a project called regionalisation of Slovenia and a comprehensive intervention in the area of local community financing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u10	Thank you very much. Mr Sok has the following word on behalf of New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u11	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Fellow Members and fellow Members, as well as all those who accompany us on the balcony! Three years ago, I have to say, this balcony was full. Many people were present, of course, from among those who wanted congregations. Today, there are only three of them; either they give up or they know that they cannot hear anything new, or they trust that the new authority will accomplish what the former does not. Well, the reasons can be different. We are in the time before Christmas, during the Advent, at the time of expectation, and also from us in many environments today. The public is for the municipalities, the public is against the municipalities. For the municipalities are mainly where the congregations were formed and where they saw the effects of new, smaller congregations. In particular, against the municipalities are the media reporting daily on how small congregations are dear, who daily report that every Slovenian wants you their congregation and so on. So they're creating some kind of media campaign, some sort of "against" media pursuit. The concept of the congregation is not a new one and our invention. As you look at the Bible, the Scriptures already describe how congregations were formed, how people came together in congregations. Thus, the history of the dissolution and formation of the congregations is very long and very different. If we go to the civil sphere, we can find out that they are the last congregations, I will not talk about the history of creation, nor is it interesting, that you have already told others how the marriage was respected or not, but the last congregations were abolished in 1957, and in 1958 they were abolished by drunken revolutionaries. In Novi Slovenije three years ago, we supported all the proposals that were then in this room and because they wanted to have a previous consultation referendum. We'll do the same today. That's what we talked about, and that's what we're talking about today. And as far as that is concerned, we will remain gentlemen or ladies. The eyes of many, as I have already said in the introduction, are today focused on the ruling policy, in power; what the left hand has not given them, they now expect from the right-centre option. We have an opportunity to correct these injustices today and here. It's the fate of the people. At least the man is at the declaration level, so we say, the most we have. The state must allow people to decide for themselves what is most attractive and what they can do in their environment. The opinions of many politicians who are ruling and who hold two or three or even more posts are such: they say, small municipalities do not have the staff, and in the fact that more and more people end up in college, that they cannot finance themselves - how would they, even when we have completely emptied the countryside - that people will live worse - we have also listened when Slovenia left Yugoslavia - and it is interesting that those who have high wages are telling them that they will live worse, and yet they want to have their communities, that is very interesting. Individuals say that these are positions, and we can see that these small congregations are very successful. You could still list it. They are talking about breaking up, about politics in New Slovenia, and we are convinced that it is mainly about egoism and hypocrisy of those who speak it. This is a fundamental issue of the Slovenian future, the municipality and the state are autonomous, they can serve the same goal, and if they also cooperate, success is so much greater. In New Slovenia, we will support all proposals, as I have already said. The healthcare home does not mean health at the same time. That's two different ideas. The threat to the Constitutional Court, which is already emerging here today, has been in this national assembly since we have this opposition, such as, on the agenda, almost every session of Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u12	Thank you very much. Mr Prevc has the following word on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u13	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A respected minister with colleagues, respectable colleagues and colleagues! Today we are dealing with very important materials, this is the establishment of new congregations. We are aware of the importance of local self-government in the Slovenian People's Party, so we have been actively involved in its development all the time. We believe that there is a need to strengthen the position of local self-government in the system of enforcement, to increase the democratic character of local self-government or to ensure its effectiveness in accordance with the principles of direct and representative democracy in local self-government. I think that all Members of the National Assembly are still aware of what local communities or municipalities have contributed to specific areas of Slovenia. Areas that have been neglected for a long time have enabled normal development at all levels. In Slovenia we have a relatively large number of municipalities, and more and more recently the question of the meaning of such fragmentation is being raised, and it is likely that this will also be a long time in today's debate when we adopt a proposal for a resolution on the referendum and then a proposal for a decision to determine which proposals do not meet the conditions for setting up municipalities. The fact is that municipalities have had and have had a number of positive effects on Slovenia's more balanced development. Today, we will decide which areas can hold referendums for the establishment of new municipalities. In the Slovenian People's Party Parliamentary Group, the establishment of municipalities is based on the fundamental right of citizens and citizens to self-determination set out in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The process of creating local self-government in Slovenia has not yet been completed. The basis of democracy in the country is the municipalities or local communities in which citizens and citizens actually live. A fundamental democratic decision on life and living conditions should be made at the level of the municipalities and the state must create the necessary conditions and provide the necessary resources. On this basis, I am convinced that the provisions governing the establishment of municipalities should be, in particular, referrals, but not defined as restrictive conditions. Of course, there must be clear criteria on the basis of which we can determine whether an individual municipality can ensure that the basic objective of the local community is met. According to the law, the municipality must be able to meet the needs and interests of its inhabitants and perform other tasks in accordance with the law. In accordance with Article 13 of the Law on Local Self-Government, the municipality is able to carry out these tasks if the following conditions are provided: complete basic schooling, primary health care for citizens [[Medical home or health station]] , municipal equipment, postal services, library and premises for the administrative activities of local communities. I would like to highlight the issue of primary health care in particular below, as this is a condition on the basis of which several municipalities have fallen out of the proposal for a resolution on the call for a referendum. The law requires that the municipality be provided with adequate health care and that the health centre or health station be listed in the envelope. I agree. There must certainly be primary health care for citizens at the local level. What is appropriate primary health care for citizens and how this should be regulated should be determined by the profession. The Health Act also provides for this, even if there is no health home in the municipality, the law states: "If there is no healthcare home in the municipality or town, the municipality or city, in cooperation with the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance, must ensure the implementation of preventive and other programmes in basic health care with a contract with another healthcare home, medical station or private health workers who carry out public health service on the basis of a concession. This type of health care is taking place in a number of previously established municipalities, and the country would certainly place some other citizens and municipalities in an unequal position now, with different conditions or starting points, or whether we will require them to meet the condition set out in this Article of the Law on Local Self-Government, even those who have already been established do not have a healthcare home. In addition, it is unreasonable and unnecessary to request the construction of new health homes or stations if the same profession does not require them or if the same citizens who are now going to live there, but only under another name of the congregation, have some conditions and medical care than before the transformation of the congregation. The essence of the conditions and requirements that municipalities should provide to their citizens lies, in our view, in the introductory phrase in the above-mentioned article of the law, "let the municipality provide conditions". Thus, in our view, the setting up of congregations must be based on the needs of citizens, for whom it does not matter what a health home is, whether standing in one congregation or another, but on the fact that it is available in a reasonable time and that care is provided and quality. And that's not just going to change by changing the name. It is unnecessary to make additional investments, instead of spending money on better health care quality, and for new essential medicines and medical equipment, it is irrational and even contrary to the purpose of the law, both on local self-government and on health care. Therefore, there cannot and cannot be a reason not to fulfil the constitutional right of citizens to regulate their lives within the local community, as they are capable and prepared, which is also based on the proposals tabled for the establishment of municipalities. On this basis, in the Slovenian People's Party, we have also tabled amendments to this point to establish also those municipalities that have all the conditions for setting up. It is true, though, that a health home is not located in these congregations as a building. We are confident, however, that primary health care will be provided in these municipalities, since it is for congregations whose citizens can reach full health care in a very short period of time in the nearby congregation’s health home. Of course, we exclusively support those congregations where, in addition to these conditions, the proposals come from people's initiatives, that is to say, where people's wishes are clearly expressed, at least the majority of people's wishes, where they have also considered these proposals in local communities, in individual villages, in individual local communities, and, of course, with such and different connections to the new congregation, they also agree 100%. We will, of course, support these congregations in the Slovenian People’s Party, and we have finally tabled the amendments that I have mentioned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u14	Thank you very much. I would like to ask for a little more peace in the hall and also kindly ask that you respect the principle of agreement to hold telephone conversations outside the plenary room. Now, to the word of Mr Zmaj Jelinčič Trimenite, I invite him to present to us the position of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u15	Good day to you all. We now have before us this law on the establishment of new municipalities or a decree on the call for referendums for the establishment of new congregations. I think people have the right to decide where they're going to live and how they're going to live. They have the right to decide who will cut their slice of bread and who will eat it. But not to speak too much in general, I will turn to the matter that I would sign personally, to establish the congregation of Ankaran - Croats, to shorten the entire title. The fact is that we should present a referendum in this area. After all, this is the only congregation that actually meets all the conditions prescribed by the law, and I think we should take this into account already on the Committee on Local Self-Government, where, of course, interests prevailed, I would say, united parties, in particular Popoviceva, Koper is ours or we could say what "Koper is mine" and in particular the United List of Social Democrats, now Social Democrats, especially Mr Yuri. The fact is, there are strange coalitions when we ask for money. In fact, it's a question of money who's going to "bass" and whether it's possible to keep driving things in strange ways so that money can disappear. That is why I agree with a colleague here from Parliament who said that this is a political issue in the case of Kopra. True, a political matter no one would have expected. A coalition of former communists along with the party "Koper is mine" or Koper is ours. I think things are going a lot differently. After all, some even speak, including these mentioned earlier gentlemen, about the need for a referendum in the entire congregation of Koper on whether or not the new congregation of Ankaran - Hrvatini should be established. Then I wonder if we asked even Yugoslavia that we should go on our own at the time of our independence and the invitation to a referendum in the Republic of Slovenia. I don't think it came to anyone at the time, and it can't even come to mind today, except for those who had previously desired to remain the former Yugoslavia in one piece, where under the red flag of the Union of Communists they would still do what they wanted, and today when this is repeated in one narrow and more specific case of the Municipality of Koper. And if we take what happened to the Municipality of Koper, we should be aware that before it was established in 1994, the Constitutional Court had said that something was wrong with this city municipality and that this should be arranged, because this concept of the establishment of the Municipality of Koper is strongly and clearly departing from the constitutional concept of the municipalities - and nothing. During the previous 12 years, gentlemen secured positions, provided taps from which they flowed or ran into various pockets, into various political parties that had a great time - and what? Of course, we would like to keep this up, because it is the sweetest thing to have the money you then share as you wish, as is, the current mayor of Kopra, Mr Popovic, who promised a time ago that in Ankara when the topic was the hottest, that Ankara would get almost two billion and a half in the next budget, now that he thinks the matter is resolved and that the municipality of Ankara - Croatia will not be established, but in the last draft budget he has dedicated to the congregation or the local community of Ankaran - Croatia about 312 million tolars. Almost ten times less. Here, truth is shown and what is behind it all. The financial resources, the money that will run in the pockets of some, that they will then be able, say, to asvalt their road to their house, to make every two meters of lighting and so on, to spend 75 million national or municipal money; where it is necessary to "flash" the roads in which cars and children go to school, they do not care. I think there's another thing here. The Constitutional Court also ruled that in the Municipality of Koper we should divide this municipality according to the request of the Constitutional Court, the time limit was 30.10.1999. This deadline has long expired, of course nothing has changed. Because the governing structure at the time did not want to kill those cows that gave them the highest quantities of milk we didn't even know about, because when it came to humans, the cow was already dried. After all, the law on the call for regular local elections in the Municipality of Koper also states - and this was the case in 1998, 17.9. by a decision of the Constitutional Court that procedures or procedures for the establishment of new municipalities may be carried out several times. Now we're going to cut off people who want to go after their own people who don't want to eat up their money anymore, and now we're not going to let them do it! Gentlemen, if there is no referendum in this municipality, we will question the independence of the Republic of Slovenia. In this case, each of any of the former SFRJ's republics will be able to tell us: "Dear gentlemen, who allowed you to go your own way?" Why didn't you call a referendum all over Yugoslavia, or do we let you go out at all? Once it is up to us to decide whether to stick to the law, whether to follow the rules, or to follow the current inspiration. I don't think we should afford that kind of kicks. After all, even the Institute of Public Administration wrote in his study - I will not read everything because it is too long, signed by Dr. Rajko Pirnat, and I will read only two indents: "The proposal for the establishment of the new municipality of Ankara-Croatia meets all the conditions for the establishment of that area from the Municipality of Koper and the establishment of a new municipality." And the following indent: "that the national assembly in this area should call a referendum for the establishment of the municipality of Ankaran-Croatia." If what opposers of this new congregation say is true, what are they afraid of? What are they afraid of? If they are sure everyone is against it, let them call a referendum, and once and for all it will be over! However, if they fear or know that their data is falsified and falsified and that certain paid journalists write what gentlemen tell them or that they also pay them certain pages in various newspapers for 900,000 tolars, of course budget money, for the side, so long things will not clear up. I think it's time to give people a chance to decide for themselves. That is why I also propose, at the end of my debate, that our amendment to the motion for a decree should be added to this decree by a new 13th point, which reads: "As a referendum area, a part of the municipality of Koper, which is supposed to be expelled from the municipality of Koper to the new municipality of Ankaran-Croatia". I think it's important. And today, when there is a vote, it makes sense to vote for it, otherwise we will be robbing the independence of Slovenia and, above all, what has led us to the National Assembly - the will of the people and the will of the electorate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u16	Thank you very much. Once again, I ask you to conduct telephone interviews outside the hall, but this is the conclusion of the college. Mr Willi Reman has the following word on behalf of the DeSUS.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u17	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Today, we are talking about a decree, not as some would have liked to understand, that we are making decisions about the establishment of congregations; we are talking about certain conditions so that people can decide whether or not the congregations are going to do so today. Therefore, it is likely that a certain degree of moderation in these thoughts would also be appropriate, a certain rationality and hope remains that if a national assembly makes a mistake, it is still available to judge the power of people at the referendums to possibly correct something. But it won't work. Where there will be no referendums, there will be no effect on the judgmental power of the people. The municipalities are certainly an important level of decision-making about how we will live our lives, what our quality of life will be. There it is decided what our daily life will be like in small things, which may not be terribly important at first sight, however, depending on our level of satisfaction. In that sense, we should say that the congregation is our second extended home in this regard. It is therefore right to consider setting up or providing opportunities for the establishment of congregations, including those things that are not actually mentioned in law and our thinking today, but we need them every day, for example, as children's kindergartens, but there is no talk about the forms of social assistance, but there is no talk about the apartments that we all need, but there is no talk about it; and later we will see that we prefer to talk about things that are self-contained. Such self - centered things are also recorded in a law that is not the best. And we will see that this self-confidence actually becomes very problematic when the criteria become very problematic. In the DeSUS Group, we are aware of the seriousness of these problems, and we have also checked the views we had before. Let me say that when we were preparing the coalition treaty, there was no enthusiasm in our species for too much fragmentation of Slovenia. Let me say that we even objected to opening the door too wide. And let me say that some of this came into the coalition contract. Therefore, in the Treaty - and now I quote - it reads, "that the coalition will allow the establishment of new municipalities, but in line with, for the first time: with the interests of the population" - the interests are those of those who want, as well as those who have "objections" in relation to changes - "that we will decide in respect of compliance with the law" - we see that this is just by the way, by the way - "that we will act in a non-discriminatory manner and that we will act in such a way that we will not be able to manifest any particular arbitrariness". All of this is now on the table, and we need to ask ourselves all of this now. If we look at what some others wrote when they wrote their opinions, we must say that the legislative and legal service did not share any particular enthusiasm with those who would like exceptions beyond the exceptions allowed in the law. The government did likewise, and the government did likewise. We feel that some things for sober decisions are missing, we are missing the right analysis, the real knowledge of the situation in those congregations that either share in expulsions or increase in accessions, or it is some other analysis that we have not seen. There are no financial assessments, no projections of what will happen next year, in the next term or in 20 years, which is very important to us. There is probably no particular doubt that it is to a large extent political projects, that it is a new division of the congregation, that, among other things, 29 new municipal councils are possible new mayors, a new influence and a new power, or at least a redistribution of power. A number of exceptions are envisaged to achieve this. An exception will be one of the more frequently used words today, but these exceptions are both old and new. There are many more old people, half of Slovene municipalities are justified on exceptions. By now, though, half of those congregations that do not have basic criteria will be regulated by law. It is therefore our view that when we talk about the land of exceptions and not about the country of rules, self-restraint is needed, that there will not be too much anarchy, that there will not be too much arbitrary decision, that there will be almost no spillover and that there will be no too many corrective exams that we will be able to handle very hard. The criteria in the law are written down, but first we estimate that the law is bad, and secondly we estimate that those minimum limits that are recorded are still valid. That is why we in the DeSUS Group will decide in accordance with the record made by the government service, and it is our view that what is proposed in accordance with the legislative restrictions for admission is still admissible for approval, but that which with the amendments requires exceptions will not be supported by us.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u18	Thank you very much. And he will be the last to present SDS position Branko Marinič.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u19	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. A respected minister with fellow workers, esteemed colleagues, colleagues and distinguished participants on this stage in the hall! The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which was adopted on 23 December 1991, is the basis on which we started to build a European comparable system of local self-government in Slovenia. At its regular meeting on 15 July this year, the National Assembly adopted a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Local Self-Government, where there is a number of innovations, especially in the establishment of new municipalities, since the amendment allows for the creation of new municipalities with fewer than 5,000 inhabitants, but less than 2,000 inhabitants. The establishment of its own municipality represents the vital interest of all citizens and thus offers the possibility of co-decision of all citizens. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we spent a lot of time on this issue, because we thought it was a difficult job and that it was the right thing to do, but in particular to make the right decision. Following many discussions, the Slovenian Democratic Party of Slovenia has set up a majority position to enable the establishment of new municipalities in accordance with the interests of the population and to take into account the legal conditions in a non-discriminatory and non-arbitrary manner. Of course, if we had taken into account the many desires and many calls of individuals who have carried on civil initiatives, which have been large since the summer, we would have done many wrongs and destroyed ourselves in this sense that we have not complied with the part of the law that we have confirmed ourselves in this national assembly. As I have already said, the Slovenian Democratic Party will take into account and endorse those proposals that meet certain conditions under the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u20	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members and following a general debate on the proposal for a decree. Procedurally, Mr. Juban. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u21	Mr Vice-President, I am on this list of speakers for the debate, and I am interested in how you will lead the debate or allow us to prepare ourselves, of course, in this way, whether there will be a resolution before us in the debate on the call for a referendum on establishing referendum areas with EPA 628 number, or whether we will talk about everything. From the presentation of the parliamentary groups, we have been able to conclude that the decision is not at all referred to as the law on local self-government, where we see a conflict within the coalition, which has itself voted on the conditions for setting up municipalities with which it disagrees or we will be able to talk about amendments that have been tabled, which we do not know what their destiny will be. Let me get this straight. My procedural question is: Will you allow for a general discussion of everything or just the decision before us? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u22	Thank you so much for asking. The debate will take place as follows: firstly, a general and, based on Rule 122 of the Rules of Procedure, this is a debate on the objectives, principles, main solutions and so on, on the basis of the decree. When this debate is concluded, of course, according to the list you have before you, we will open a debate on individual amendments to the decision. Then we'll talk about these amendments. Experience shows that it is impossible to draw a sharp line between general debate and concrete debate. I expect this interference and integration to occur. Of course, I can no longer warn and beg; I could have taken away the word, but such radical methods are not intended to be used. Once again, I appeal to you - of course, the time is one, the time is common to the general debate and the amendments - to distribute it properly, to save it for the amendments, and in this general debate you are actually discussing in accordance with Rule 122 of the Rules of Procedure. I hope I answered your question. Of course, my desire, which I repeat over and over again, is that either in the general debate or in the debate on the amendments we are actually discussing only the issue or subject of the debate, but not those who have also been mentioned several times, for example when presenting the views of the groups. Thank you very much. We continue the general debate. I invite Mr Weber to take the floor because there has been an exchange with Mr Pecanovo.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u23	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! The establishment of municipalities in Slovenia is certainly one of the more difficult or interesting projects we are undertaking. The criteria that we want to design to put this process into some frame, we don't really know exactly how to define them, or if we already have them, we try to avoid them. This raises a key question to me why there are even proposals for the establishment of new municipalities. One of the first ideas, the first thoughts that arise among people, is, we want to shape our development, we want to accelerate economic growth in this area, we want to have more populated villages, we want to have more orderly roads. However, when we find out what the actual congregation is, especially those to be established this year, can itself act for this purpose, the framework of the possibility is given in this direction to actually arrange a municipal building so that several municipal roads can be set up, arrange a water supply [[sewerage is already a much more difficult system, which is also very difficult to build because it is linked to very high funding.]] And then here we begin to face the problem of funding these municipalities. While we are thinking that the number of inhabitants may be one of the key elements in setting up municipalities, it seems to me that funding municipalities is the most important element that should be a framework of thinking, a key framework of thinking. If a congregation in its territory really needs a cleaning plant and a sewage system, then I think their program is ready for the next 20 years and it is not possible to think about other solutions in practice. If they have all the infrastructure built, they can think about making the place a little better. However, it seems to me that it is also possible to regulate within the framework of existing municipalities and that therefore there is no need to increase costs, especially for public administrations, if I say so. I think it would be more appropriate that in areas where there are proposals for the establishment of new municipalities, some analysis of what these areas actually need and whether it would not be possible to address this need through the system of existing municipalities more quickly, especially in a way that we are not giving additional resources to the administration, but rather that we are giving these resources for development. Because the key moment to establish a congregation is to think about development. And here it seems to me that there is one major flaw in all these procedures, because there is not enough constructive thinking about how, in fact, the situation in the areas where municipalities are proposed can be addressed faster through the existing framework and, of course, we do not increase the costs of public administration. I am mentioning the costs of public administration because we have just adopted two budgets. We have found that these budgets have allocated far the most resources directly to the public administration. Funds to create new jobs to tackle unemployment were falling. This is what worries me, in all this thinking, because also the new community, if we reduce the state level of funds for economic growth, for technological development, for the resolution of unemployment, will not be able to solve these problems. Last but not least, it is not in its direct jurisdiction; it allows for some infrastructure, land and so on, which are then the basis for the development of the economy in this area. If this is not followed by a mechanism of the country which would allow this, of course we have done nothing but encourage a system of public administration in Slovenia. If we add to this the state's thinking that it is trying to reduce the number of its offices in these remote areas, then the functioning of public administrations or municipal administrations is further undermined by the fact that it is bound to carry out certain operations outside its headquarters and thus loses that sense further. I think that the country would do much more if it did not abolish the offices of geodetic administrations for the tax administration and would thus maintain those services that you really need in everyday affairs or in some more serious decisions as close as possible and that they are as high-quality and accessible as possible, and, last but not least, that allows the employment of highly educated staff. That is also how this thinking is in conflict with the interests that the applicants for the establishment of new municipalities imagine they will achieve in an area. It is possible to create the conditions for us to employ a highly educated staff, particularly through the preservation of offices under the authority of the state authorities. In this way, I think that we could form local self-government substantially more rational, efficient and I do not really see the very great need to set up municipalities that have exceptional or meet certain conditions that fall into exceptions, and we are not, at the same time, also interfering with financial compensation, which is also one of the systems that may be under-appropriate. For there are many things in this financial settlement written down that are not part of the financial settlement and should be excluded so that some things can, of course, be more effectively resolved by the congregations. That is why I think that the funding of the congregations, especially those small ones, is so incomprehensible right now that I do not see the great significance of establishing new congregations and not supporting them in further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u24	Thank you very much. Before continuing the general debate, I should like to inform you that the expert services have assured me that we will have a review of all amendments within one hour at the latest, which means that we will certainly have before the general debate or the opening of the debate on the amendments, which will certainly make our work easier. We continue with the general debate. My word, Mrs. Kucler Dolinar.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u25	Thank you very much, Chairman. Nice greetings to you, Minister, Secretary of State, fellow Members and Members of Parliament, and to all those who are with us today! The municipality is a fundamental form of local self-government, covering settlements or several settlements related to the common needs and interests of the population. Since, together with the initiators who have asked me to propose to this respected assembly to allow them to referendum areas, we assess that this decision is not fully a reflection of these common interests and the will of the people, I have decided to submit some additional amendments to complement this decision, which we are currently discussing, this is for the referendum areas of Rakek, Shentosht, Polhov Gradec and Dobrava, because these initiators believe that the situation within their congregation would be more appropriate to use the funds more effectively and rationally, as we have already heard, what should also be the basic purpose of creating a new community of people who feel and have the same needs and interests. This is the first reason why the amendments, which I will then further justify in the debate on the amendments, are. Initially, it was said that some, and this is also true, have been investing their initiatives for the second time, the third time, the fourth time. I am sure that this should not be just statistical information for us Members. This is information that shows that these instigators are confident of their desire, in their will, that, despite all the procedures and rejections, this has not yet prevented them from wanting to form a closed area of their own. Above all, it is my opinion that today, when we vote on the amendments, we must be sensitive and also pay attention to those who do not meet certain legal limits. All of you have also received an invitation from the Association of Local Communities of the Republic of Slovenia to support the treatment of new municipalities with a call to pay particular attention to further addressing those environments that do not meet certain limits. Secondly, even more importantly, the reason I think is that there is a complaint before the European Court of Human Rights by sixteen instigators. The Court has already decided on their formal procedural justification to deal with the complaint and, as they report, is also somehow in this process of hearing. Here I think that, despite some concerns about the appropriateness or inadequacy of some amendments, we must also have before us a recent decision by the European Court, which has surprised us. This is the Lukend thing, and I think we have to be open to it somehow and not close our eyes to any more unloving surprises when they warn us that somehow we do not meet the constitutional principles of ensuring local self-government. It is wise that we are prepared for this option and that is why it is justified to give these incentives an opportunity to present a referendum in their areas. In this general part, I think this is more than justifiable, in this first part, when we sign off on the referendum area. However, I will continue to justify individual amendments in the debate on the amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u26	Thank you very much. Mr. President has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u27	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr Vice-President, Mr Minister, the remaining two representatives of the government, the distinguished colleague and colleague. Our colleague, Mr Prevc, gave our thoughts in his presentation of the opinion of the Group, which, of course, concerns today's likely day-to-day agenda items, so that he would not repeat all these facts in this place again. I would focus on a few points in this first part, because, of course, we will discuss individual amendments in the second part. The fact is, we adopted a new law on local self-government in this same house months ago. Unfortunately, we have not covered all the necessary nuances that we should resolve in this amendment, but I am of course also convinced that all these conditions are difficult, extremely difficult to define in the law. Above all, I think it is important, this arbitrary decision, that we need to find out, in one way or another, with contacts with the local environment and so on, which is that area, as a future municipality, will be able to carry out its mission. This seems to me to be the most important decision, whether it is a financial aspect or all other extremely important aspects that are present in the functioning of a local environment called the congregation. The fact is that all of these decisions that we make every time we discuss in each mandate before the local elections are about establishing new municipalities or changing their borders, that these decisions have many consequences for some of the next decisions in the next term, i.e. over four years. I come from the area of Upper Savinjska Valley, where this National Assembly decided, I think about eight years ago, or four years ago, because I do not know that any area, one settlement is expelled from the municipality and joins another municipality. I claim that we have one of the main consequences today on the table, a proposal for a new congregation, because we have divided the existing congregation into literally or practically at least two parts. We must always think about the consequences of our decisions. As we have said in the introduction, we have already said that all the proposals that have been given are about the same, that they are of approximately equal working conditions and that we will decide arbitrarily. In doing so, I would say that we have added amendments in relation to what I will then comment on below. However, we also added, that is to say, an area where one of these conditions is not met, specifically health care and this health condition, which we have discussed extensively over the past month, outside this hall, or in our house. We have also added two proposals ourselves, which we believe should be decided in local environments in a special or separate referendum, in which municipalities want to live some of the local communities, which are not otherwise covered as possible new municipalities. The basic idea is for people to decide at the referendum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u28	Thank you very much. The next one has the word, Mr. Trophynik.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u29	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! Of course, we are back on the topic that occurs popularly every four years, but in a professional or substantive sense, despite the 11th year since the introduction of local self-government in the Republic of Slovenia, we have failed to make a good leap. We have entered Europe, and although we are not bound by any other document in terms of local self-government, we do not have money in Europe in trends, that is to say in further divisions. There have been strong trends in the area of local self-government in Europe for decades, where local self-government has developed a large tradition that actually works: trends in local communities. We're special, without knowing a valid reason, in the further fragmentation. By definition, the local community should carry out, to the greatest extent possible, the statutory and constitutional tasks entrusted to it, but primarily with its own power. This word power means in the widest sense of the word, meaning cadre, means material conditions, means finance, and is still involved. We're forgetting that. This definition is not followed in any way by our planned procedures or near decisions. And here is the reason why we are different in this area than Europe, and we do not want to be like Europe, which has experience with knowledge and, in particular, long-standing positive experiences. We even led the matter to absurdity. If there was an excuse for a very poor former law on procedures and conditions for the establishment of municipalities in 1994, when a new system was in some way established, the system of local self-government, and I will say otherwise, when we squandered local self-government, we have done nothing better by abolishing that law and transferring those bad ones in the law on local self-government, even claiming that we narrowed down the democratic process. The original sin is that the law gives a Member the right to propose to the congregations. Let us ask ourselves what would happen if Members had the right to propose a state budget. What would the state look like then? And that's very similar. This is unacceptable because it has all turned into the promotion of individuals or individual groups who do not pay the bill for this promotion. The bill is paid to someone else - in a financial sense to public finances and to others who pay for it. Otherwise, this is too often to the detriment of the quality of life, because even though they are full of the mouth of the proponents, how development will increase, how one will increase one another, thirdly, unfortunately with all these explanations, and even more so when reading these quasi-elaborats, one will come to realize that serious arguments for proposals are missing or not at all. And it is the greatest flaw that the law, not the previous one, nor the present one, does not know the exact criteria by which to determine or measure the non-arbitrary nature of the matter when it is necessary to establish a local community or to change its territory. We don't have this because we didn't want it, because then, of course, there would not be such a "freedom" in investment, but in particular in achieving some other political objectives with a means called the establishment of new municipalities. We have come to the point of absurdity because if someone cares for an existing local community for the equitable development of this local community, it is said that individual places develop to have a school, an ambulance, a kindergarten to have each other, then we will or willfully prepare them to secede and set up new congregations. We actually stimulate egoism, not stimulate development, but egoism. And this egoism goes so far that there are cases where someone wants to solve an undeveloped area because it costs too much. But this has something to do with what I said before. The right to self-government, which is a constitutional right, is being replaced by the right of its own congregation by the majority of those who discuss and proposers. These are two different matters - the right to self-government yes, and this is not the right to its own congregation when we translate it. This translation is poor or unworthy. Let me move on to a motion for a document, that's a decision. Indeed, the applicant is the working body of the mother, mainly on the basis of a proposal from the Members, with the assistance of the Government, which has drawn up an opinion on the basis of the proposals. This opinion is unruly, without explanation. He suggests something, but he does not hope to justify why a proposal for the establishment of a congregation is proposed for admission but not for another. Let this amended law be so bad, but it clearly states that the congregation under 5,000 inhabitants must meet the conditions that there is something special, in geographical, historical, borderline and, I don't know what else, but there must be less than 2,000 inhabitants. That's what they say. It's a commutation of more conditions. The Government, the Committee and the proposers claim that the conditions are met by law. We only see one. That's what they call the population. The answer, what is historical, what is geographical, what is borderline and what is the second reason, one word is not in any proposal. Not in those who are in favor, not in those who are not. I'm saying that the population criterion, the number of inhabitants, is the worst criteria. Some of you want this or reluctantly in some discussions about those problematic health stations that are really funny, as the argument that you want or reluctantly confirmed. And this is a fundamental problem that the government, which is also responsible in this area, does not have a more radical basis for its proposals in accordance with the law. I have to be fair. It's always been like this, but that's not the reason that we can keep going on like this, because it's like someone's been stealing, and I'd say, because they've been stealing, and I can steal. And here's the basic problem. An unreasonable government that serves as a decision maker. It will be interesting to hear the Constitutional Court because some of the decisions based on this weakness are well known. Of course, the government has prepared for us to be more likely to make decisions, one table, where the pluses and the minuses met the condition, and the rest of the congregation met the conditions. Again measured only through the number of inhabitants. Of course, the government had no interest in the impact of the proposal on the quality of life of citizens. If the local community is to carry out the law and the constitution of the entrusted task to the fullest extent possible, in particular with its own power, which is in the Slovenian context in view of the unpreparedness of sincere decentralisation, because decentralisation means the decentralisation of financial resources, in parallel with the decentralisation of decision-making, of course, this own power is difficult to ensure. That is why, of course, such fragmentation is not a contribution to the development of local self-government, to greater democraticism, but it is a willingness or unwilling support for the greatest possible centralism, because it has been and continues to be so. The government's views, as well as the elaborators, do not answer what will happen in a new proposed local community, at least through three criteria or three basic areas to be provided by the local community. Let us ask whether a new local community will be able to perform the administrative services or administrative tasks entrusted to it. It can't be because with 2,000, 3,000, more people, you can't afford administration. Not because it wouldn't be possible to have enough educated people, as someone said. No, because it is not possible to pay them in sufficient quantity and to a sufficient extent to cover all obligations, because we have this problem that local communities have the same powers, regardless of size, and it must be met. Those who substantiate that the law provides for the stimulation of the local community, which would possibly have a joint task, are in error. In a way, they tried to pass on positive experiences to Slovenia from somewhere else, where the trend of associations is. This is not compatible with the opposite trend of fragmentation. I would like to see local communities now claiming that they cannot live together, that they are exploited, that it is a closed development, and then they will have a joint administration tomorrow. That number of administrative and professional tasks will be multiplied by the same. If there was now one local community, if there were two or three of them, there would be several times the same tasks that could not be carried out by the same number of administrative and professional workers, regardless of whether they are in the same administration or are in the same administration or are split up, however we want them to be. And it's an illusion, or else it's not like I'm gonna say anything with it, deliberate deception, at least some. It's hard for me to have someone sell that kind of thing. It is said, in the area of administrative and professional tasks, these proposals, this decree represents higher costs, the inability to implement these things entrusted to the municipalities and, in the light of the affected citizens, lower quality while at the same time higher costs. Another area that we feel more and more like citizens is the provision of economic public services. On this question, whether it will be more quality or less quality, whether it will be more expensive or cheaper, the table, neither the government's opinion nor the advocates in the laboratories give any answer. This, however, is a fundamental mission or one of the basic missions of local communities. These proposals, at least some, break down comprehensive infrastructure systems. The local community is actually a field of solidarity. This solidarity is most explicitly expressed in the area of the provision of economic public services through the price of these services, as prices are generally uniform across the whole local community. After a trifle, it can't be, and no one says it will have consequences, firstly, at expense, secondly, at the very quality. Let me illustrate the performance of economic services. According to the Law on Local Self-Government, the infrastructure belongs to the municipality in which it is located. And now we imagine that when one part of a present congregation is eliminated, it becomes a water system, as an example, owned by a new congregation. But this water system, for the first time, is not only in the function of supplying drinking water to citizens in this new congregation, but also often as a transit system for another congregation or the rest of the old congregation. And now let's develop this to the end when there's a defect, who's going to pay for this defect, and what's going to be the security of supply with the basic thing, with the drinking water. If the government analyzes this, what happens in some areas that have been divided in previous areas, and that these areas are now slowly forced because they cannot, they come into the so-called tariff system when they differentiate the prices of municipal services, no one will say that, they will not warn citizens anywhere, but if they are warned, then the actors think it is intimidation. Of course, this field of solidarity is, I've illustrated only one. But there are more of these areas of solidarity, so the negative effects will be multiplied and there will be no correction. This is the case in the field of economic public services, similar in the field, here we are used to things, social activities. We are partnering with this proposal and, unfortunately, with the demographic situation that cannot be expected for decades, perhaps a few decades will improve so that the school environment is too small, the schools that are built will not be full, and similar matters. To the rest of the municipalities, in particular those who are specific to us and are most battered, that is to say, those are not cities, and they are not, I don't think, pejoratially, rural municipalities and perform some of the functions of sub-regional importance, let these be regional books, let them be museums, let them be working universities, let them be health homes and so on, all of this as a expense to the rest of the municipalities. This directly threatens the rest or the congregation so far and the quality of life. But the government has ruled out, the rest of them meet the conditions. Yeah, it's not hard to meet those criteria. But what will be the consequences, and the government doesn't say so, and even less so, the proponents. In the past, some of these anomalies have improved in large cities. In culture, the country took over a whole bunch of institutions, the founder of which was the municipality, because it wanted a political option, it came to the libraries in the past. But I fear that these acquisitions are now over, that the state will take over such institutions that have been financed by local communities so far, and that the opportunity will become a burden for the remnants of the old congregations. The ones that are just going to stay a little bit smaller. Because he's speculating with those split balance sheets that are going to be another problem. At least for two years they will stop the investment cycle both in the rest of the municipality and in the new municipality, because they will fight for at least two years or more. As long as there is strife or conflict, of course no investment is possible under the law until then. You can see clearly in the explanation of these quasi-elaborats when they write because the library is school. I mean, someone put the marriage in the armor, and the library in the armor, it could be school, but it's not the point. There's that speculation in there, and they better have the library or they better shut it down. If development is because development is something some want to measure. The fact is that the problem is in a variety of forms of infrastructure, but only with asphalt, development cannot be measured. Something else about claims that have been made, which also point to will, I say, some kind of ignorance or conscious dishonesty and seduction. To say that this will achieve greater democracy is kind of two-faced. At the meeting, when we consider a proposal for a law that strengthens citizens' accessibility in both active and local elections, it is also unprecedented in the European system of comparable countries with a developed level of local self-government. Of course, these unnecessary divisions, which are again concentrated mainly in the northeastern part of Slovenia, which is the least developed and which, of course, proves that fragmentation does not constitute any impulse for such or other development, would lead to people in individual environments wanting to protect themselves from these attempts. They do not want to be experimental rabbits, so they propose, in accordance with the laws and statutes of the municipalities, to separate individual settlements from the submitted new municipalities. It's an emergency. And this isn't the first time. From where I come from, from the municipality of Ormož, this is the third time in 10 years. On the basis of the amendment, I will also explain this in more detail if I have correctly understood that we will have the right to speak once again in the amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u30	Thank you very much. Of course you'll have the right, but given the time available. The next one has the word, Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u31	Thank you, Vice President. Let me demente immediately, regrettably, the lying colleague of Jelinčič, that I should defend the referendum in the entire Municipality of Koper in order to vote on the Ankarans and the Croatians. This was the idea of his friend and ally, Mr. Mayor, whom I also publicly rejected. So much for the information to be correct. Now to the point. Let me immediately say that I remain faithful to my belief that the atomisation of municipalities, the atomisation of their development potentials, which, as my colleague Trofenik correctly warns, is not only measured by the ability to get asphalt on the central village road. It is an increase in public administration, it is an increase in public spending. So investment in non-productiveity. And it's a symptom that we have to worry about, a decline in social cohesion and solidarity, which is primarily the responsibility of the mayors or the mayors and the municipal councils that are being atomized. Therefore, all honor is due to those who are still keeping their congregation together. So much for the introduction, which says that I will not support the decision to call for a referendum to establish new congregations, any amendment or amendment will be made during today's debate. Among these is the amendment of the initiator for the new municipality of Ankaran-Croatia by expulsion from the municipality of Koper, which we have heard in the introductions. The idea of such a congregation on the parental committee did not receive support. As it will be today, the majority will decide in the Chamber. I believe there has been a lot of lobbying during this time, pressures on those who do have a majority in the National Assembly. Of course, my landing will not, irrespective of the tabular fulfilment of the conditions, as the government does, and the perception, even personally, of increasing support for this idea and on the spot. In particular, according to the latest arrogance of the municipal leadership, which declares that the city council should be kept within the current borders and, by doing so, literally dismisses the periphery from it. And why won't my voice be? Because it's going to be the realisation of this [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u32	Mr. Yuri, I'm sorry if you can save the debate for an amendment. We said, first general [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u33	I wouldn't go back to the amendment, Mr Vice President, in the time we have, I would take advantage of it now and then I won't even come forward if you let me. It's a general definition, no matter how much I focus on this story. I will therefore oppose this amendment because the realization of this idea to the Kori society, the community, its further development, its competitiveness between the Adriatic ports and what else it creates among the leading municipalities in Slovenia would strike a huge blow. I think people will be less satisfied with everything, the conflict in space will increase, there will be new departures, new secession, in the illusion that everyone who will grow only their nursery will be better. Time will tell you who's right. That certain settlements today want to secede from congregations that have developed in the previous periods in the same way or in the same way, by expelling from the former congregation and with the same aims, proves that my fears are all but unfounded. However, if I go back to Koper and Ankaran, Croats, where some of the new municipalities want to get rid of the mayor and blame me, because I am making this wish difficult for them, we must remind the government and Minister Žagar of what is likely to happen today in the Kore Municipal Council. The mayor, as you know, proposes to amend the areas of settlements in three local communities, including Ankaran, in order, in particular, to deprive the latter of the possibility of exercising the rights of use of the building land by Luke Koper, in the event of a possible referendum, that the public concerned will not be paid for the transfer to the new municipality at the time of this loss of income. I don't know if the calculation's gonna work out, but I know the passions are in the heat. In any event, if the amendment of colleague Jelinčič, which is based on a concrete map and on specific calculations of the assets, revenues and expenditure of the new proposed municipality, is supported and the decision on the call for referendums will, of course, be adopted, what he will do to ensure that the latter is consistent with the new situation on the ground, with the new borders of the settlements in Cyprus or vice versa. I myself tried to call on the municipal council to postpone this point until the final decision was made here in the National Assembly. I believe that such haste and such overtaking, when the consensus of the affected environment has not even been found, is consistently extremely unfair that it is literally a lumper, but I believe that I will not be heard if the game played by the mayor is indeed the same as I described it. Well, tonight, when we decide here, we'll probably know how they acted in Cyprus. However, I hope, Minister, that you will observe that the acts of the National Assembly and the Municipal Council will be consistent. Let me conclude, I therefore object to the amendment of Comrade Jelinčič in everything, to the additional amendments as a decision, to him or to such amendments or without them, and recommend that all those who strive for a new congregation rather replace the mayor as a municipality when the time is right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u34	Thank you very much. You see, I have also graciously allowed for a concrete debate. Finally, it is the same time and, as we said at the outset, it is difficult to draw a line between general arguments and concrete arguments. We continue the debate. My word to Mr. Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Very briefly, I will somehow further elaborate on what I said earlier. I would like to say that when we speak for ourselves, we are a little embarrassed when we decide for or against, not for that reason, because we are doing this on an open stage, as our colleague warned us, when people are watching us, precisely because we honestly think about it, we are embarrassed. Regrettably, when we reject, say, amendments, i.e. exceptions, because many exceptions have been made in the past and it is unusually difficult for people to say that the congregation, which has all the conditions of 3,000 inhabitants, cannot be a congregation but can be another congregation but only have 300 souls within its framework. That's what's causing us some embarrassment. But we have to get out of this embarrassment by getting some equipment. What we can rely on are probably the legal conditions that lie ahead of us, and this can be called the will of the law. Therefore, those who are in opposition for the sake of the law may not be supported. Another embarrassment is that in a large package we are taking options for deciding at referendums. Over 30 municipalities, for example, were proposed and 10 municipalities were proposed. I am sure that it is also possible in Parliament to find a whole range of people who will now decide on fate, but very difficult to find these places without a map of Slovenia, or have never been there, or would have been lost if they had come there. How are we going to do the right thing now, something we don't really know, except after the very few words from the materials we got? So, because of these embarrassments, we are left to our conscience before we decide, and I hope that it will apply to us - so it should be - that despite everything that is the will of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u36	Thank you very much. The word is wanted by the Minister, Dr. Zhagar, who can come forward whenever he wants. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u37	Thank you for your word. Unfortunately, the Member is not here, but I would still answer his dilemma. With regard to any disagreement between acts adopted here or in the city congregation or any other congregation, it is possible to resolve it by means of an administrative dispute before an administrative court when it comes to what is now legally possible. The second is also the matter of political culture in this decision-making. I fear that decisions will also be taken in individual congregations. In doing so, I would also like to stress what has been repeatedly exposed to the fact that the government has not put itself in the role of proposing in the formation of new congregations. The proposals proposed by Members or individual municipal councils have been submitted by the Government, with regard to proposals and with a view to justifying the proposals put forward by individual applicants, to give its opinion or determination on the fulfilment of the conditions and not to take any other role. Of course, they are also in the sense that they do not want to interfere with the proposals themselves and do not want to change them, even as regards the justification. However, all these arguments, or all proposals, are available in the National Assembly and, last but not least, the National Assembly decides on the establishment of new congregations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u38	Thank you very much. Now I really give my word to Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u39	I understand why there is no explanation, and I also feel that there is nothing to be surprised about, for the repeated exercise from the past is also now ahead of us or has already happened. I think it is extremely bad that the government has not put itself in a position that follows the constitution and by law that the state is the one that sets the criteria or divides the state into congregations. This is a state function, and if I read Mr Šmidovnik and Mr Shokar, who has been involved in these matters for many years, then it comes first to deny here, and someone has already said, the right to the congregation of anyone. Under Article 44 of the Constitution, it is certainly the right to manage public affairs, much more so with municipal matters. Citizens have this right, and we have this option, and we certainly do not have the right to our congregation under the Constitution. We can fight for this on the political path and so can we. I'm sorry for what I'm supposed to do today. Should I follow the inconsistencies that have been done in this National Assembly for the first time, for the second time, for the third time, and not know how many times we have discussed this, or should I simply follow that there is some kind of mixing? I really don't see the same approach from this motion for a decree in all cases, even if I link the next point where some proposals are outside, but I don't know why, but some are in here. Sometimes the kids used to go stealing land, if you remember when they were drawing things. Here is one proposal to remove a settlement from the municipality of Lithium and join the municipality of Šmartno. Why? Because it's an industrial zone and because the municipality that they used to run in the previous term would know who cheered up like that, and then we let it go because it had 5003 inhabitants or whatever, they counted them overnight to meet the criteria of 5,000, and we then released one and only four years ago to the referendum and it was also established. Of course, at that time they probably forgot to draw the part that is being produced today, I don’t know, from the title of the building plot so much more than if that congregation were without it. But, look at the fraction, before I asked which end it was for, but now it's obvious that this parent congregation beat them over because it changed the decree and said, "No, no, you're not going to take this away from us, but we're going to give it back to this congregation." I think it is true that such cases need to be asked where the role of the State is actually. Even more so, I don't know what information he holds for this month, but last month it was only 12 municipalities that met the self-sufficiency criteria, that is to say, funding by means they could also afford from their own resources. Is that really self-government, local self-government? This is not local government, but it is the management of taxpayers’ money, because at least one part, when some municipalities up to 80% and some few percent get money out of the total sack. So I don't know how to define myself on these points. One of the congregations or suggestions for the congregation four years ago did not meet the conditions because it did not have - I went to look at it, the same job wrote it, the same people appeared there - there were no conditions because there were not enough people. Now, he has a lot of people, but he's under a heading or a pillar, which says that there's no perfect health care in the congregation, because they've been building homes around the local communities, and he's going to be a congregation now, and he's a smaller local community than yours, and he's not going to build a health home there because he's three kilometers away, and he's got fewer people. So, I'm in a dilemma when I read the papers of the same professional services, the same experts, because after all, we don't know how many and because I am absolutely for the respect of the law. And if I was then, four years ago, for one congregation to go through, then I must also be for all those who are now listed here and who meet the territory of the 2000 inhabitants, and I must not even ask myself whether or not I would rather look at which proposals meet the qualitative criteria that they will be able to survive with dignity. What does it mean, for example, to propose those amendments that are here so that complete health care can be provided, I don't know, tomorrow, tomorrow, within three months or so. Is this some kind of guarantee to support the amendment? I think, of course, we should look at this from case to case. If imperfect healthcare has concessions, someone can come in very quickly, even now that these relationships are very fast. Two spaces are quick to learn, if that's what this is all about. But I think it's something else, that it's a matter of meddling, of making deals, we're gonna let this go, we're not gonna let this go. That is why, of course, I will also explain my vote when I vote on the decision. But just as it is prepared, not reasoned, not equal to a "bath" for everyone, but even a departure from what the local self-government is and the right to local self-government is, of course, I have nothing else to say that if there were at least a market to say this yes, at this price, or whatever, but not so that no one knows why anyone does, why not.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u41	Thank you very much, Your Honor. It amuses me to hear this lesson about local self-government by members of the opposition and, of course, I find that the reasons for secession or the establishment of a single congregation are in reverse proportion to what you are saying. So everything you've said, we've already heard, nothing's new. I hope that today we will make a wise decision and give these people the opportunity and the right to local self-government and the right flower is what Mr Trofenik said, but he is not here anymore, as usual. He says that the right to self-government is not a right to the congregation. I recall that the king of the sun, Ludvik the 14th, in the French Parliament with a stick in his hand explained that his privileges were the country's own privilege. So something like that. Those who rule the congregations today speak of the fact that the right to self - government is not a right to the congregation. And if I come from our environment, so from the Armenian, it is not my whim, but my politics that I have proposed two suggestions for the congregation. That's what people want. Let us, however, give them once a chance to tell the referendum whether they want it or not. That is why they have been working for a decade, and I hope that today this national assembly will finally cut this Gordy knot. To talk about two years of fighting, why, if people are wise, honest, then they can make a quick deal. But if someone today says he's going to act like he's going to fight for two years, then that's probably what he's gonna do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u42	Thank you very much. Mr. Trofenic has a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u43	Dear colleague Sok. I advise you to read some expert literature on local self-government, then you won't encourage me to do such things, stupid. The right to local self-government is not equal to the right of the congregation.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u44	I very much ask that the debate or debate be conducted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and that you avoid the succulent expression that I will not say anything else. Mr Hwauc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u45	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, it is obvious that local self-government and the establishment of new municipalities are a very hot topic. At least I'm judging by how many different phone calls and how many different interventions I've personally experienced lately. I must say that I am fortunate that I do not have any suggestions or initiatives in my area for the establishment or division of municipalities, and from this point of view I can look at these problems in a slightly more calm and objective way. If we look back at this eleven-year period in which the reform of local self-government was carried out and what this has resulted in in these eleven years, then I must say that we have received a rather disorderly, chaotic state. We have municipalities that are relatively or very small, which have fewer than 500 people, we have municipalities that have 100,000 and more inhabitants, we have a large number of municipalities that are not financially independent, which, without the help of the State actually cannot survive, only a few municipalities are capable of being independent in this regard. The funding system for municipalities has in the past been inconvenient and inadequate. We failed, or not us, without me, because I was not yet in Parliament, we failed to regulate the second level of local self-government in order to establish the provinces. And all of this leads, in one way or another, to people wanting to have their own congregation, leading to the collapse of the congregations and to the fact that today we have a host of suggestions for better opportunities for people; at least they are confident that this will happen if each local community has its own congregation. Of course, I do not deny this right to anyone who wants to be a single congregation. However, I think that at least a few criteria must be taken into account. The first is definitely the law. As far as I'm concerned, I'm surprised when some colleagues are discussing how they could fully or almost fully respect the law, how they might sometimes get caught up in one eye. I don't think this debate is right - the law, whatever it is, has to be respected. That is why we are also in the first place here, adopting laws and discussing whether to fully respect or not to respect the law, do not seem to be in place. The second aspect to be taken into account is, of course, what kind of congregation is to be formed. The municipality is not its own purpose, and the congregation, which we will eventually legalize, must be able to carry out all its functions, which are also the reason why it is established by the Constitution and by law. The community must survive, the congregation must bring positive things to citizens and citizens. And third, which is, it seems to me that the will of men is also decisive. If people want to have their own congregation, and if other conditions are met, I think that every debate is superfluous. In doing so, we must also be careful not to fall into any trap, so that in the new municipalities where proposals are in some way intended to meet these legal conditions, it would be violent to use such a term, including individual or settlements or local communities, and they do not want to do so. It is also necessary to take into account that we will not, in fact, restrict the right of others to make their own decisions by allowing one work or a certain number of people to have a desire for their own congregation.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u46	Thank you very much. I invite Mr. Brenčič to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u47	Thank you for saying so, Mr Vice-President, Mr Minister, fellow Members, thank you very much. While I am aware of the tasks, competences and even the wider mission of the municipalities, with little logic of a good master, I am convinced that it should be on the question, namely the establishment of new municipalities and the setting up of municipalities, the trend or the process as it is here. The fact is, from the point of human resources rationalisation, from the concentration of services in the economic public services and thus the appreciation of the life of the population should lead us in the opposite sense as we perform. It is true, however, that somehow the interest in new municipalities is conditioned primarily through a system of funding municipalities, which is simply possible that this is practically one natural process towards faster, more coherent development of certain environments, but in the long term this is not the right way. However, if we are already establishing new congregations with a decree that is being tabled and the National Assembly has a practical role to play here, then I feel that we should not behave discriminatoryly or say localistically or otherwise. At the same time, I do not think that we should stand firmly on some limited state laid down by the law. Mainly on the issue of primary health care. The Basic Law, which establishes the primary health care system and thus the primary health care network, is the Health Act. This law specifically states in articles 9, 10 and 11 that, without quoting it, and this law is a lex specialis here and the predecessor of the Law on Local Self-Government and is with the Law on Local Self-Government in essence in college, should not otherwise be resolved, as this law provides for me to tell you in particular. Look, the proposal is for a new rakek municipality. The furthest settlement in this municipality is 6.7 minutes away from the health care home, which was built by the entire interior together, and it would be pointless to expose the physical additional infirmary or medical home in Rakek. Now I'm going to say, take it as a good master, the congregation, the environment, the Lower Idrija. The lower Idrija is an economic environment so that it can be compared with the most economically developed municipalities and does not have the conditions for health care, and again it is very close to the primary healthcare home. Now let us take the congregation of Kostanjevica, which has more realistic living conditions. So I don't think we can do that, and that's why I'm saying we have to decide on the content. However, if we act like responsible people, we must let the congregations, the environment, decide for themselves. Despite the full self-interest and personal interest associated with the proposals, let them make this decision and give them a chance to a referendum, which is what I stand for. The other thing is, exceptions. I argue that more than this limitation, which is in law, should be taken into account reasonably with regard to exceptions which are mainly geographically historic. There is nothing to help us if one environment has a health station, but there is no other rational way to improve our lives. I just remember that we made such an exception, which I once strongly advocated for the congregation of Blocke. Geographically and historically, this is part of the environment. We have done the best we can for this environment to do, but no criterion meets, and I therefore argue that there is a need to take into account the healthy measure of reason and a small farm of sound logic in terms of a good master. I think that this trend will sooner or later need to be halted by a strong amendment to the Law on Community Financing, which must be comparable to European work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u48	Thank you very much. It's Mrs. Uhan's turn. I'm sorry, Mr Pukšič has just arrived, so I'm giving you my word. Mr. Pukšič, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u49	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I didn't come from anywhere, I was here, but my fellow Member and I were just discussing some of the amendments tabled. Thank you so much for saying that. I am one of those who has been in this congregation’s history for the third time. I find very funny the discussions of some who had completely different arguments and different starting points and views four or eight years ago. Personally, I am sure that people need to be given the opportunity. Nevertheless, people are the ones who know best what organized group they want to live in. I can only remind you that eight years ago there was an extremely political decision on who got the opportunity to call a referendum and who didn't. It went like this: if the proposals were by the then coalition, then they received support if they were by the opposition, unfortunately to a large extent they did not receive support. I will remind you that already the Liberal Democracy has divided the congregation of Luče into two, the congregation of Solčava and the municipality of Luče. From 2,200 people they made the municipality with 400 people and municipality with 1,800 people. Today it is argued that the law does not give us the opportunity to call a referendum for municipalities that do not have 2,000 inhabitants. This option exists because there was this possibility even before it was not a condition of 2,000 inhabitants, but there were only 5,000 inhabitants. Both the law and the act, the resolution on the call for a referendum, are both at the same political level, one and the other adopted by members of the national assembly and are equivalent. I will therefore support all proposals for a referendum in the referendum area. There is no reason not to trust people, citizens and citizens. I think we have to trust them this time too, not only when we come out alone with ballots, programs, wishes and so on and ask them for their vote. But then we trust them and ask them for their vote. Those who say that the funding system is inappropriate are right. Of course he is, dear colleagues and colleagues! I spoke with three ministers - some are now in the National Bank, some were prime ministers and so on - none of these ministers had the balls to change the Law on Community Financing. For one simple reason, this law would amount to a withdrawal of about 25 to 30 billion funds from the city municipality of Ljubljana. However, that is also the extent to which these funds are needed for financial settlement. At that time, when a political decision was made in the National Assembly to change part of the funding from 30% to 35% of the income, some municipalities received 500 tolars and others 5,000 tolars. If we have thereby changed the image of this country, from the most important law on the establishment of an independent state to the next law on the establishment of local communities, namely the establishment of municipalities, in 1994. This map has changed significantly, but only in areas that can be regulated through the Law on Local Self-Government and Community Financing. If we gave more power and more money in the economic field, this country would develop even more evenly. To date, none of the congregations have proposed a merger. How would you do that? I come from central Slovenian mountains, I come from those places where there is gold and honey and mud and poverty. However, if anything has changed, it is in this area that local self-government, in the area of municipal infrastructure, has changed. The municipalities have set up or arranged many projects, both school, health, cultural, road, infrastructure and so on. In many congregations large projects have been brought together and are being carried along. Not to give funds to the municipalities, but to give conditions, spatial conditions for regulation and economic development. I know about the municipality, which has a project to invest in a tourist resort of €40 million, a project that will bring new 200 jobs right in the central Slovenian Gorica. Tell me, colleagues and colleagues, if this were one of them, or if it were one of the local communities together in the great city congregation. None of this would have happened. I agree, of course, with those who advocate and think that people need to be given the opportunity and that people should decide on the referendum. I'll give all thirty-three my own support so they can have that chance. However, I will, of course, also later, and also publicly, as I have always said, and I will clearly support the establishment of a congregation where a positive referendum will be held. Well, I'll respect people's wishes. They have the opportunity to decide on the referendum, to set up, to adopt the law and to amend the law is our will, which we have a mandate from people and is a political act, both of them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u50	Thank you very much. Once again, please avoid spicy expressions, especially those relating to individual parts of the body. It is my duty to protect both the integrity of this House and the integrity of Members. Now, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to invite Mrs. Uhanovo.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u51	Thank you very much for your words, Vice-President, Minister-in-Office, Representative of the Government, honourable Members and Members, and above all all those who accompany us on the Tribunal and hope in our votes. The proposals for the new congregations that I myself have submitted to the National Assembly, namely, Bizelska, Kostanjevica na Krka, Mokronog, Trebelna and Šentrupert, have come from civil initiatives and from local communities, no you or the local community have happened to be on my proposal, on my request or accidentally joined, for all I have papers, certificates, authorizations, and so on, to first clear up this matter, otherwise there will be more in the amendments if the time comes, and perhaps why these congregations or these people have decided to want their congregation, for the third time now they are trying to establish their own congregation. All the congregations now proposed were once congregations and were abolished in the 1960 ’ s against their will, and they were politically abolished. Today, there is little time to summarize their past and where their ideas and desires, their hopes for their congregations, the congregations they already had. Residents, we will not be satisfied with the current local arrangements and policies. They want a new congregation because they are confident that they will be better equipped with the money that is intended for the congregations, so that they can better justify the so - called chieftain, so that their places will grow faster and more evenly than ever. Even because of interwar and postwar beatings, because of such or other policies that did not listen to the needs of the population, people were evicted from these places. The population is old, young, educated, leaving because they do not see their role in these places, so the population split up when they were congregations. With the present law, by linking some places, today could once again be a congregation, for the third time today they are trying. The authorities have changed, we are willing to listen to them today and vote for the congregations, or we are just going to walk around the field and convince them how stupid they are if they have their congregation, how they will fail, because they are not capable, it is better that, as it is, someone else thinks instead of them, that someone else should share the money instead of them, eternal humiliation. In doing so, you only have your accounts where you will have your mayor's second year, where you already have it, where it is worth supporting and so on. As politicians, we are obliged to allow them to express their will at the referendum, so I will support all proposals and later take into account the outcome of the referendum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u52	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Petan's turn.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u53	Thank you for saying so, Mr Vice President. Your Honor! So, so many calls, and the messags, and the messages, and the letters, and something else I've received about the congregations, I haven't been for a long time. And among these letters that I have captured, I found one particularly interesting, although I do not necessarily agree with him in everything, but it seems to me that he is just highlighting something and I will read some of it, I will not tear the sentences out, but I will try the whole paragraphs, but it will not be much. "No new municipalities will have sufficient own financial resources to carry out their activities. Such municipalities will depend on the state budget, which does not mean, as often mistakenly thought and interpreted by some supporters of small municipalities, that more resources would be obtained in this way, and that the State would give these funds. It is forgotten that the so-called state resources have not been created in themselves, but are obtained through various taxes, and it can be again found that with the new municipalities there is greater public consumption and the need for new tax burdens on the population and the economy. The fragmented small municipalities have poor bargaining power in implementing socially beneficial ideas across the country, such as the size of an objective restriction on communication with the country, small municipalities also have objective staffing and professional restrictions, all of which increase the dependence of local communities on the state, namely the central government and the rejection of individual political bots, political parties or institutions. Such a situation is ideal for centralised countries, as it is possible to control municipalities in peace, and that the paradox is even greater, under such conditions, new bureaucratic levels can be established with the assistance of the same country, as municipalities lose honor, resources and energy. Well, there's been a lot of letters like that. This is a letter from someone who is against further division. Of course, we also had letters that are for division and show things differently. At the same time, we can ask ourselves which content or which will or which thoughts are the right ones, whether they are more democratic or have a greater weight than those who are in favour or who are against it. Everyone gives some arguments. Then we can also ask ourselves, because entire groups of citizens have expressed their will, we want to have a new congregation, help us, and there have been whole groups, whole buses, but we are against, and we do not want to be in the new congregation, we want to stay in the old congregation, or we do not want to have a new congregation at all. What is more right now, which opinion has a greater weight when we talk so much about human will. So that's the point of this question. And we here, who are going to be pressing the keys today, are going to have to decide which opinion has a greater weight, what's more democratic, what's more human. That's what it says. It's not exactly a simple task for us. We'll sort of define ourselves with that pressure. So it's worth a little imagination. Finally, some legislation is likely to have to be taken into account. We have adopted legislation, we have confirmed it, it is not necessarily what we have accepted that we have agreed on everything. They have recently amended a law that will be important for today’s decision. I can say for myself that I helped to bring this law into force. I admit that I didn't agree with everything, but I supported it, and now I can just say that I will respect this marriage. It doesn't come to my mind, even if I don't agree with a lot of people to look for slalom and say so, but here I'm not gonna respect it, and that's none of my business. That is the case, the law must be respected and if we do not respect it here, how can we expect other citizens to respect the legislation that we are adopting. This is where we accept it. So I've made up my mind, I've got a clean bill, and the bill is such that what I've accepted is what I'm going to respect. I will respect the law that was recently passed, and I will therefore support all proposals for new congregations that meet the requirements of the law, which I myself have helped to adopt. And those citizens, those citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, who will be given the opportunity to decide at the referendum to decide there and, of course, I will also respect that will. Of course, this is where a particular problem arises, as everywhere, what happens to those who do not want or want to have their own results. Well, I'll support that, too. If people want to decide not to want or want to live in a smaller area, then the result should be determined. I think that's also in line with this law, so my decision is clear. By the way, to conclude, even in a large congregation of Korah, not everything is as gold as some want to present, so that it is not all that is great.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u54	Thank you for your discussion. Before continuing, allow me to thank Vice-President Pavlich for his leadership so far and take this opportunity to congratulate him on his birthday on behalf of the National Assembly. Happy birthday. [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] But I'm not gonna tell him who he has because he looks younger than he really is. [[...]] I give my word to Ambassador Miran Potsch. He's not here. The text is by Ambassador Dara Lovtišar Bebler. She's not here. I give my word to Mrs. Eva Irgle.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u55	Thank you very much for the words, Mr President, honourable Members. Today we are talking about those areas that want to become a new congregation. It will therefore be up to us, Members of Parliament and Members, whether we will allow a referendum or a referendum to those people who can then decide whether they want new congregations or not. This possibility is, and it is, right for all those congregations that meet the conditions under the law to be allowed to make this decision. I myself tabled a proposal for the establishment of a new municipality consisting of the areas of the local communities of Renče, Bukovica, Volčje Draga and Vogrsko. In this area, if we were to confirm this today and then call for a referendum, that is to say, a new municipality bearing the name Renče-Vogrsko and, as I myself have spoken with the locals of these areas, they assured me that they wanted the new municipalities for which they had applied to the National Assembly in 2002. They were not successful at the time, even though they met all the conditions required by the Law on Local Self-Government on the establishment of municipalities. I think it's necessary to stick to the law. Above all, it is necessary to take into account the wishes of the inhabitants and allow them to decide whether or not they want new congregations at the referendum. The reasons why the area of Renče-Vogrsko secesses from the present municipality of Nova Gorica are in particular the following: insufficient investment of Nova Gorica in the development of an area that wants to become a new municipality, insufficient consideration of the interests of the inhabitants of the local communities of Renče, Vogrsko, and, last but not least, the lack of adequate urban planning. The new municipality of Renče-Vogrsko fulfils all the conditions under the law and, as a new municipality, is also able to fulfil the needs and interests of its inhabitants and to perform other tasks in accordance with the law. The new municipality, if formed, is said to be Renče-Vogrsko, a geographically rounded whole of three interconnected local communities, which are now part of the municipality of Nova Gorica. All three existing local communities were united settlements in Austria and later in Italy with the status of the municipality, which was later continued in the beginning of Yugoslavia. What I would like to stress in the case of the municipality of Rence-Vogrsko is this: that the most important social aspect of this new congregation is that it could be created. Because economic indicators and data on citizens' incomes show that the municipality of Rence-Vogris would have a lot of resources, potentials and staff to be more involved in the work and development projects of the new municipality. Of course. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u56	Ambassador Irgle, please allow me to interrupt you for a second. Part of the debate in which the National Assembly is currently sitting is devoted to the general debate on the proposal for a decree.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u57	Well, in this motion for a decree is also the municipality of Rence-Vogrsko.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u58	We'll move on to the debate on the amendments tabled later.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u59	That's not an amendment. I'm sorry, but this is not an amendment. Look at the amendments, and you will see that this does not belong to the amendments. So, as I said before, the social aspect of the new congregation is important. Many locals are also highly engaged in activities in cultural and sports societies and so on. Of course, there are still a lot of data that are in favour of the need to establish a new municipality of Rence-Vogris, but at this point I would not like to continue to discuss this. Now I ask you, my dear colleagues, to support this new congregation, which meets all the conditions for it to become a new congregation. So they can decide whether they want a new congregation or not at the referendum if they do, and I hope it will be announced. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u60	Thank you. I would like to remind all further debaters that there is a general part of the debate on the decision, in particular the objectives and principles of the decision, and not the debate on a particular place - probably the very well-known rules - which will be opened when the amendments tabled are considered. We continue the discussion on the basis of the list of applicants. Member Milan Petek has the following word. [[He's not here.]] The next on the list of applicants is Member Janez Kramberger. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u61	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! I hope that I will not be carried away by speaking in the context of the general debate. To say what colleagues and colleagues have said in support of the establishment of smaller municipalities, I would like to say the following. In central Slovenian Gorica where we set up three new municipalities in Lenart, Slovenia, eight years ago in this National Assembly, three new municipalities are seen in these three new municipalities of Benedict, the Council of Ana and Cerkvenjak, especially in terms of meeting the infrastructure needs of the people living in these areas. And the people are pleased with these congregations. They are pleased with the mayors, with the municipal authorities and have actually taken these congregations for their own. And now there is a desire to establish two new municipalities in this area, the municipality of the Council of Trojica and Sveti Jurij in the Slovenian Gorica. And one of these, we will probably be able to discuss this even more precisely later on the amendments themselves, does not meet all the conditions. I would like to support the thoughts of my colleague Stanek Brenčič, who spoke of the meaning of the provision in the law that speaks of health care and I am also sure that you are somehow with the law that speaks of the determination of municipalities that they are in some sense in conflict. In fact, an environment that has a healthcare home or a health station does not need to provide health services only to those who are from that area. It can offer them wider. As you know, we can choose a doctor and, for example, a man who lives in Maribor can have a selected doctor in Cyprus. So that shouldn't be an argument. I have been in our home and myself all the time, so for the third time I have met with the establishment of new congregations, I have always personally supported the establishment of smaller congregations. I think things are much more transparent in the middle. At the same time, I can say that in this national assembly we have never been able to vote or amend the Law on Local Self-Government in such a way that smaller congregations may have different powers than larger ones. And the arguments that some colleagues and colleagues have suggested that in European countries, for example, in Austria, I do not know, Germany or elsewhere, the small congregations unite. I think that, of course, is true, but this can't be an argument right now. Rather, those congregations in Europe that unite do not face or deal with problems such as those of our congregations, since it is primarily the problem of infrastructure. And when we exceed this development threshold, and therefore we will probably need some time, then the municipalities in the Slovenian space will also be joining together. So I think that we must, of course, support these referendum areas, which are in fact sufficient for the marriage proposal and also others, especially those which lack a specific healthcare home and, of course, support these referendum areas and ask people if they so wish to express themselves and then we will see people's will in the next phase and decide again on the establishment of municipalities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u62	Thank you. I give my word to Brada Pecan. She's not in the hall. The word has magic. Tomaž Strabe. He's not in the hall. Member Paula Gantar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u63	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. My debate will differ in many ways from the tone and direction of the debate, as we have heard from these last colleagues, Members and Members of Parliament. I also have to explain my personal position in some way and, of course, this is that I have been dealing for more than 30 years with the problems of social territorial organisation, with the development of social territorial communities, with local self-government. One of the basic starting points in this section is that the social territorial communities are of a kind, a relationship between people, territory and their activities in the territory. Less and less than one community has developed, this interdependence is greater, it is smaller, it is smaller, and local communities are smaller. More than it is developed, more than technology developed are the territorial dimensions of these communities, as the territorial dimension of human action is wider and larger. What is happening here today with changes to the law on local self-government and with this decree, of course, is going in the opposite direction. We deny all these general findings and we are actually doing something that is fundamentally opposed to what is happening at social territorial development and its politically different organisation. The arguments were interesting, and I have to say that among the arguments there was also a scripture of old, I hope that old and not only new commitments, I know a lot of literature, I have to say that now the literature on local self-government of the Holy Scriptures is an old commitment or I have not found a new one. But it is true that in the old covenant it is written about congregations and communities, but it is blood, not the territorial community, that those dealing with it should know. Today, we have heard some very triumphant triumphant statements from the supporters of the new congregations set up by the Communists, including how the communists destroyed local self-government in 1956, and I must say that these reorganisations of local self-government in the previous regime took place not only in 1956 but also in the 1960s and even in the 1980s. Few will recall that the most important reorganisation of competences in the 1970s was when Kardelj wanted to destroy the powerful liberal mayors of the week, such as Mirtič in Ljubljana, Blood in Škofja Loka, Šimac in Novi Gorica, when it was possible to destroy them only with a change, I would say, the jurisdiction of the municipalities and so on. The concept of the congregation as a commune was then established, the concept of the congregation as a commune, as some idealized self-governing community on a territorial basis. And today, gentlemen, what is a paradox, this concept of the congregation as communes is coming back to us in cursives, in catholic disguises. Kardelj is very close to you, and Kardelj is the one who is at the heart of these changes. And a very interesting story is who is the true successor of the previous regime when it comes to content and methods of change. This true inheritance is the one who used it for political struggles. I cannot avoid the impression that good work of these changes is behind some genuine interests of people who think they will be better off under such or other conditions. I respect that. I respect that. I respect that. The question is whether it is necessary to formalize it in the form of a congregation as we know it today. What is happening here in Parliament, not at local levels, I understand in particular as some kind of planning philosophy, as a philosophy, that it is necessary to install, limit, separate, separate and, if possible, benefit from it. This philosophy in a world that is inevitably globalizing will not succeed. Will these new congregations that will undoubtedly be established, and congratulations to all, be successful? Of course, they will be successful because the method of financing is such that it is worthwhile for them to establish new congregations. To all those who want to establish new small congregations, I tell you that it will be worth it, because this way you will get more money, and because in fact you will do more in the short term for yourself, for the entire rational organisation of Slovenian territory and country, this is extremely questionable. And many times today have been mentioned to object to such a position as I advocate, that we are actually opposed to people in the referendum making their own decisions. Certainly not to decide for themselves, I support the referendum, but let them decide for the congregations that they will pay for them. If they were confronted with this fact, then perhaps a number of decisions would be different. The main problem in Slovenia today is not too big a municipality, believe me, and there is not much to talk about today, the main problems in Slovenia today are too weak cities, too weak cities as development generators at local level and in competition with cities in Central Europe, we cannot speak at all in the world. And this attention moving towards small territorial units from the main urban problems in Slovenia will cost us a lot; unfortunately I do not have time for lectures. Otherwise, what can we say about the criteria? The criterion set out - I remember this from personal experience - in the first draft of the law in the government where we participated was the criterion of 7,000 inhabitants. This criterion is roughly in line with the criterion in the theory of central places, a somewhat outdated theory which at this level achieves certain functions of centrality. In negotiations with the then Christian Democrats and Peterlet, we went to 5,000. And of course we didn't stick to that either. And now you've put it up to 2,000, twelve years later, with all the technological development. And it doesn't matter that much either. I recognize that it is also appropriate to establish some municipalities in places that are less than 2,000 people and do not have all these functions if they have specific historical and other circumstances. I am sure that this would be a good solution, although a humorous many say that there are more eagles and bears than humans in the Osilnica. However, I am not quite sure about the two suggestions made by the municipalities, which I will not now name, which I find to be interesting, but they are relatively small. But as a method, the principle of fragmentation, we can't take that into account. And that's a problem that's going to keep beating us. You say we will reform Slovenia, we have a framework for reforms. This reform framework does not say anything about a rational territorial organisation. And the changes that are at work today will, of course, be a severe blow to the reforms you are planning. Finally, although I know that the debate on the amendments is ready, I would ask the motioner, Mr Kokalj, a fellow Member who has tabled an amendment to break the municipality of Gorenje Vas-Poljane, to withdraw this amendment, because until he knows where Hotavlje is and what Hotovlje is, it makes no sense for him to table amendments. This amendment makes no sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u64	Thank you for your discussion. In the second part of your debate you touched on the amendment, so I am obliged to give my word for the replica. Here you go, buddy Bones.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u65	All I have to say to Mr Gantar is that he is nowhere in the constitution or in the law that I need to know where Hotavlje is as an instigator and where Hotovlje is. That is why I will not withdraw this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u66	This will close the debate on this. Personally, I think it would be appropriate and necessary for the amendment applicants to know the content, much broader than the content that is written. We continue the debate. I give my word to my colleague Martin Mikolitch. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u67	Thank you for your word. Nicely greeted! Today we have 193 municipalities in Slovenia. No one in this national assembly will convince me that small congregations are a weak member of this 193 - congregation or local government. No one in this national assembly will convince me that this chain will be even weaker if we join these congregations in today's proposal, both in decree and in amendments. I must tell you that to say the five arguments of the bad side of small municipalities, I can give you at least ten arguments from the good side of small municipalities. I don't think about it, but these are facts, and I work 11 years in the local government or I'm a mayor in a small municipality. As regards some of the allegations, a billion additional costs of municipal administrations, because that is true. I would suggest that the municipalities now accept budgets, look at the budgets of large and small municipalities in the official lists and make an analysis, the common budget and the costs for this part, and you will see the imbalance in the costs of municipal administration in large municipalities regarding small municipalities. About one billion extra money, you know, that's not really two RTV referendums yet, no one's asking where the costs are going. And the third time, in this regard, you know a lot of highly educated people, or someone will be able to get a job, but in fact, given that we have so many college-educated people on the stock market, the unemployed, who actually get some social assistance, is going to come from Zhagar's or Bajukov's Ministry instead. And secondly, the debate on the least developed territory in all these small municipalities. I do not want to explain for the third time here that 1999 has been passed the Act on Promoting a coherent regional development that has not been implemented. One percent of the gross social product was then to go to these areas and respected colleagues and colleagues from the opposition, and you did not do so at the time. I can argue that if there were no small municipalities in these areas, a doctor, a livestock doctor or a firefighter with a car could not lead to a particular home. And thirdly, I do not think it is right that we have set a lower limit in the law concerning 2,000 inhabitants. I was not that reason at the time, or everyone in the New Slovenia Group. Today, we can see that some areas have a population of less than 2,000, and they are even more entitled to a separate congregation in terms of their specificity than some when they have 3, 4, or 5,000, or even more. So that I can repeat this view of the lower limit and, for example, I have here the congregation of Godojina, and there are some who would be justified to be a single congregation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u68	Thank you, Comrade Mikolitch. This time I must warn you and ask you to be more precise in your future performances when you refer to some of the political options for the opposition and you assign them in the past to rule, I must warn you that this has not been the case. I ask that you send political parties with a political party to avoid such problems. Thank you. I give my word to Ambassador Aleš Gulic.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u69	Honourable Presidents, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. I'll be brief. In fact, it is a matter of principle, whether this two million nation is to be completely divided into individual beams, kindergartens, accepted among themselves, and, of course, to make any joint projects more difficult. We know that people don't live like this for a hundred, or 2,000, by 3,000. Here I agree with all the debaters who say it is more than that. It is said that it is not just the number, of course it does not matter whether there are health homes, schools, etc. In a way, people have historically decided to live together and then see inside their identity whether they would have a congregation or not. Of course, like everything else in this world, it can also be abused and then I listen here to various stories that tell me that some places can establish their Kinderreiche. So, such kindergartens, which would then serve them, their childish desires, memories, joys, etc. Of course, it will also serve all who live with them, that is another question. To manipulate people to get excited, to even get them to oppose the existing one. Most with such, say, relatively transparent stories that more municipalities mean decentralisation of the country, which means greater local self-government, etc. The truth is that with such feudal pitching, we get partialisation, which is certainly not decentralisation, but it allows for greater centralisation, greater manipulation, of course also customerism and all that we are so afraid of at the verbal level. Therefore, I think it would be good for each of these amendments to think very well about who lobbyed for the congregation, how it actually happened, what was going on, what was behind, how many times an initiative had been put in, and whether it was only because of the inertia, etc. The main reason for this is that, after all, we all swear that people should be good and right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u70	Thank you, Comrade Gulic. I give my word to Ambassador Zammernik. He's not here. I give the word "magic." Genius. He's not here. I'm giving the word to Dr. Lahar. He's not here. Before giving the floor to the next person on the list, I would like to request or continue with the request made yesterday by Vice-President Pavlich to inform the Members who refuse the debate. Because it's about making it easier for you to prepare and guide when it's your turn. I give my word to Ambassador Jerovska.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mr President, colleagues and colleagues! For the third time or for the fourth time, as a Member, I am faced with this debate on the referendum areas, on changing the areas of the municipalities, and I must say that I am still carrying within me about the same opinion that I have been representing all these years. I come from one of Slovenia's largest municipalities, which has an interesting history of the establishment of smaller municipalities. In fact, six separate referendums were held in this area 10-11 years ago for the establishment of six municipalities. None of them were successful. The people's will was respected, and there was a single congregation from which the municipality of Oplotnica was excommunicated six years ago. By that time, the electorate had asked me to submit an additional application for the Polish Congregation, which had not been confirmed in the local National Assembly. At that time, Macolas wanted to have a congregation of their own six years ago. Although I come from a large congregation, somehow I do not understand all the observations that have fallen on the part of my forerunners. If I were to take it seriously or literally, then I should now declare that no one would mark me, that I am close to Cardel and Cardel's mindset, that I am in, say, 10 "liberal Reichs" in Slovenia and that I am not in any way in favour of establishing any additional municipality. Although I think that my congregation was very good at conducting congregation affairs, caring for its population, understanding the intentions of people, the initiative committees, the local communities, which are now also making a request through me and through the congregation council for their congregation. I deeply agree that comparable congregations for which we have proposed to establish some have worked extremely well in these periods and have made a lot of good for their environment. As a result, all these requirements for the establishment of congregations seem normal, meaningful and understandable to me, although I am also telling my constituents and my citizens that they must make their own decisions. I'm explaining their pluses and minuses. When it was said here by a colleague that this way they would get more money, that this is a strong argument that is legitimate. This argument is legitimate and citizens see it. As a result, I do not understand that one is repugnant, lamenting how the larger centers will now receive some money and even less notice to pay for the congregation. Such a lack of all solidarity in this country seems unbearable to me. In the country, financial centralisation took place at the time of the LDS, and it seems normal for those who benefit from this: the benefits of financial oligarchy to oppose any solution that also brings a financial injection to more remote places. However, the municipalities are financed by majority. Do not this basic principle of equality, at least some equality, recognise and disregard some of our colleagues? I think it's rude to label people and even those who make these demands as "planning." "Planed" is my view that those of the great centers must have more, and those of the others should suffer retardation and underdevelopment and so on. The theory that the larger places that are more developed want to have bigger centres and less develop smaller ones - yes, of course, it may be true, but at the expense of these large centres these places obviously could not develop, especially if they are faced with specific geographical characteristics and see an opportunity in this too. I firmly believe that this money, this tolar, which will be invested in small congregations, will be substantially better converted. He'll be much better turned around. I say that some congregations have so far created two tolars from one tolar, but, say, a large municipality, even a Ljubljana municipality, we see how the money is "chafla" and they've burned half the tolars of that principal. In fact, I think this criterion, which is now set, 2,000 people, is some sort of realistic criterion. However, due to the specificity in Slovenia, there are some other environments which, due to specific circumstances, would deserve an exception from this criterion. In the previous term, I have invested and requested the establishment of the municipality of Libelica, because of my enormous contribution to Slovenia, because of the enormous patriotic spirit of these ancestors from Libelic, who succeeded in changing the peace treaty, that Libelics came back from Austria two years after the signing of the peace treaty in Slovenia. I did not put this in today because local factors there did not understand this great meaning and even attacked me to impose on them the congregation. And yet again, Libeliče should be an exhibition window of the Slovenian state, with its 700 or how many inhabitants should be a separate municipality. And the sooner I think it will be established and local politicians will probably realize that they have missed their opportunity and opportunity for Slovenia. So, once again, I will support these referendum areas. And I must also say that in the past with regard to the Municipality of Koper, when we first discussed the decision of the Constitutional Court, I have found its constitutional non-compliance and that I remain here in the same positions, so I am sure that times have not changed so much that everything else has to be changed. I believe that the Constitutional Court's decision is in force and that it should be implemented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u72	Thank you, Comrade Jerovšek. I give my word to Ambassador Jozet Horvath. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u73	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The decade of Slovenian local government is certainly a long enough period for in-depth analysis. The ways of local self-government regarding the formation of Slovenian municipalities were almost always, especially in the years leading up to local elections, steep and winding and slippery. Whatever the analysis is, there's no going back. We have congregations, such as these and others, each with its own specific genetic makeup. Some errors in the establishment of congregations are irreparable and some are. Some of you have drawn parallels of Slovenian municipalities with municipalities in the Member States of the European Union. This comparison does not hold. The European Union is not a united country of Europe, but a family of European nations and a European legal order does not regulate the procedures for the establishment of municipalities and the field of local self-government, but is an area governed by Member States alone. This is a fundamental principle and ensures the political, administrative and financial independence of local authorities. With my initiative, I am not establishing the congregation of Godojin, I am not stopping the congregation of Godojin, I am opening only the door for people to make the most democratic decision and to say whether they want to live together or not. Small municipalities in Prekmurje have made a real infrastructure boom, so I do not accept criticism that small municipalities mean a decline mainly in the north-eastern part of the country. I come from a municipality that, with a 500 million-year budget this month, concludes 2 and a half billion heavy investment supplies, even two sewerage systems we have built. To return to the decade of local government history. We must have learned something. Perhaps it is also that citizens after the Slovenian poet "we are not just numbers, we are people". Today, it is difficult for those affected to understand the legal limit on the right number of people to establish a congregation, which is very difficult. A friendly country, ladies and gentlemen, should not view and treat its citizens as a physical crowd. Citizens who want to live together in one congregation are a valuable logical crowd. Perhaps even when discussing initiatives for the new congregations that we are considering today, this national assembly will learn something, perhaps even correcting a mistake of its own. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u74	Thank you. I call to the word of Ambassador Gezo Juban. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u75	Thank you very much, Chairman. First of all, I would like to say that I respect the President's warnings when he tries to direct us to the decree and that he does not allow us to walk by law or by a decision that is not an integral part of this agenda item. And I won't be angry if you warn me. I may be a surprise to whom I have decided not to oppose the decision, but to the one we have before us. In fact, I consider this decree to be the result of a legal framework adopted by the ruling coalition and containing solutions that are minimal. We have heard a number of times today that exceptions between exceptions are not justified by the fact that proposals for new municipalities are based on border-based geographically rounded, developmentally problematic environments, but are based on legal provisions. And I want to respect the law at this stage and because I believe that, despite all of this, this decree is within the bill, which some of you are deeply troubled by, I will not oppose this work if it remains as it is. But the reasons are as follows. If, for the first time in this decree, you look at the proposal for the Municipality of Apache, there is a model, although it is best among all the topics in this material, which has 3800 inhabitants, it is geographically rounded. I don't mind if someone on the other side follows us, listens to us, and someone in Radgona will say tomorrow that Juban Apache doesn't object, because there's a minimum minimum that could be a congregation. Of course, all the other cases in this decree are worse, but unfortunately worse to lower them, I will not support those matters. It has been said several times that, on the basis of these standards or previous ones, we have the most populated Pomurje with the congregations. And it is true that in the first stage we had some infrastructure boom, that these new and relatively small or smallest municipalities in the country built the most basic road infrastructure, partly water network, to a lesser extent sewage network, homes, social care and so on. That part really came up. And there is some peace because people are scattered among some local communities that have formed congregations. The second stage of the problems that arise is already concern for schools that are becoming half empty because they are within the territory of the congregations, and the libraries that we have been building for ten years have not yet been upgraded, because there is no agreement among the municipalities, the problem of exposing higher or higher schools, where the first government that was also on the first visit to Prekmurje said how it will help build higher schools - of which there is nothing, and says that the congregations should solve it themselves. Economic objects - not to talk! It is very difficult or impossible to reach agreement on how to run and run joint projects with the participation of municipalities and so on. This part shuts down and stops. And from here on out there are those problems where we should not go in extremes and if we go from these frameworks that you have set yourself, then we will really cause the other parts that are problems, and of course we will no longer be able to talk about helping to develop environments that are already affected. Of course, we have the largest number of municipalities and, as we see by statistics and otherwise, we also have the most developmental problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u76	Thank you. I give my word to Mr. Stannet Pike. Member Christian Janc has the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u77	Thank you very much, Mr President, Minister, Secretary, Fellow Members and Fellow Members. The establishment of new Slovenian municipalities is certainly the main topic today, and the debate also pays particular attention, which is also right. Last but not least, we are talking about options, which we will also be voting on tonight. I come from a large congregation alone, and so far it has not been shared in a small congregation. I guess that's why there's more than one reason, and I wouldn't talk about them myself. However, I think that of these new congregations that have been formed since 1995, there are certainly many of these very successful, good stories, where people in small congregations have shown that they know, that they can better combine their interests and interests, and that in this way they also get what those areas - they may have been neglected for such and other reasons, failed; in short, their voice did not reach the heart of the congregations and so on and so on. And that's why it was probably the reason that they went to the independent congregations and showed the Slovenian space and the local government that they could do it on their own. I think that with the new Ministry of Local Self-Government and Regional Development, we have received one serious partner, an interlocutor who can do something for these Slovenian municipalities, where there are still extremely large differences between small, medium, large, urban municipalities, under the financing law, about which something has already been said here today of course this is far from fair and fair to all Slovene municipalities. Here lies the ministry, probably the government and us Members, still a difficult and difficult work, to balance this more honestly with Slovenian municipalities, which are such and different, and also the calculation of funding can be specific and usually not the most accurate. I think and my fundamental principle has always been and will continue to be that the will of people and the rights of people and their fundamental message is that if they so desire and want to have their congregations such and different, under certain minimum conditions which this national assembly has also confirmed and accepted in some way, then there is no reason for us not to offer these options to people. Let us be so democratic and proper and give them and not let them decide in advance. I don't think everyone's gonna get a positive referendum, I doubt it, I don't think so. But let those who choose to do so have their own congregations. To talk about money, about costs, about it, it's a little bit demagogic. Of course, now the cost is a lot more than just Slovenian municipalities and mayors and those municipal administrations. It's, "don't drink water." But I have to say something to shorten it, because then there's little time at our disposal. In the end, I'd say that. My personal opinion of this story is that. I speak from my own experience as mayor. If I have tried to follow in a congregation all the interests of the great congregation, local communities, etc., and that there has not been any appetite for new congregations, I feel that I have been a successful mayor or yet. And probably even in these existing municipalities in the mayors, in the municipal councils, in municipal policies, there are probably some reasons for these congregations to decide for their congregations. Therefore, those mayors who will lose part of their territory should also ask themselves whether they have done all the right things not to set up new Slovenian municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u78	Thank you. I give my word to Ambassador Anton Kokal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u79	Thank you very much. I would like to start with some of the starting points that I think are important for me to think about what we are actually doing today. If we quote the 138th Article of the Constitution, which speaks of the fact that the inhabitants of Slovenia exercise local self-government in municipalities and other local communities where upgrading is meant to be possible only at a higher level, it is said, for example, the provinces. 140. Article 140. "Members of the municipality shall belong to local affairs which the municipality may handle on its own and which concern only the inhabitants of the municipality". In addition, Article 142, "a municipality is financed from its own resources, municipalities which, due to poor economic development, cannot fully ensure the performance of their tasks, the State provides additional resources in accordance with the legal principles and criteria laid down". This is so that we do not lose out on unnecessary words about the financing of the congregations and what the congregation is. The fact is that, on the basis of this constitutional basis, the law under which we deal with today's decree is very bad and, above all, the criteria for establishing municipalities, which in no way take account of what the Constitution requires, lays down, not the number of inhabitants at all. The number of inhabitants is a completely hair-attracted category, which unfortunately no government suit has been able to argue in any way in ten years. It is said that the size of the municipality in itself is not the criteria and has not been assessed criteria to date nor to economic, not in terms of spending public resources, especially in terms of administration, as is often evident, and I miss this very much. From the government service, I must be honest with you, I would expect one serious analysis after ten years, but it is not done, and that is why today we are deciding on new municipalities in our minds, completely in our minds and extremely political, which I think is extremely problematic. The European Charter on Local Self-Government is perfectly clear. The report, which some referred to today by the Congress of Local and Regional Authorities, was also very clear. If we only touch on the problem of funding municipalities, it states as follows, "let's wait until the funding system is regulated as it should be regulated". The problem is not the municipality, the problem is in the country. If the congregations do not operate and where there are problems in the congregations today, the problem is that legislation is not implemented where it could be. And I'm going to quote some other articles of the law that some of our colleagues refer to today, if you're going to stick to the letter. I would ask you to read the law to the end and consider whether we will stick to the following articles. And if we did, I think the situation in some congregations today would be a little different. "The State authorities shall monitor the legality of the work of the bodies of the municipalities. The rule of law of general and individual acts in the municipalities in matters under their jurisdiction shall be exercised by the ministries, each in their own field." Is that what's going on? "In order to exercise control over the legality of the work of the bodies of municipalities, the Ministry shall ensure appropriate cooperation, mutual information and professional assistance to the bodies of the municipalities. The Ministry must draw attention to the authority of the municipality which it considers has issued an act which is not in accordance with the Constitution and the law and propose appropriate solutions to it. The Ministry must also alert the competent municipal authority if it finds that the municipal administration does not comply with the law or other regulation and proposes appropriate measures." I'm quoting a specific case. If the municipality does not accept the final accounts if it does not submit the budget to the Ministry or Government, the government shall not act. So it's not a problem in municipalities, it's not a problem in the number of people, it's not a problem for municipalities to do bad jobs because of what they are. The problem is in part of the country, all the time since the local self-government has been established with us. Now for the very number of municipalities in Slovenia and their size. A study was carried out in this National Assembly, which showed that Slovenia has an average size of municipalities, according to the average of countries participating in the Council of Europe. This means that we have a problem, as mentioned in the above-mentioned report of the Congress of Local and Regional Authorities, that differences between municipalities are enormous. This is because the congregations are unprofessional and the process is now continuing. I expect the government to prepare an optimal proposal for distribution, territorial distribution, local self-government to a system that should run in Slovenia. We now have a situation, still, from the times of the former Cardelian system, that local communities in some municipalities are indispensable if the congregation wants to provide what is written in the constitution in order to provide the congregation. Firstly, this is not legally consistent, it is not systemicly consistent and it is not politically hygienic. With a population of several hundred thousand people and a community of several hundred people, there is no problem with the number of municipalities with a constitutional aspect, but with regard to the constitutional aspect, there is a problem with the number of municipalities with very large numbers of people. These have greater difficulties in ensuring what the Constitution requires of them than that of small congregations. That's what I hope to say. Therefore, I myself think that Slovenia would need about 300 about the same size of municipalities, abolishing local communities, says the local communities without which some municipalities are still unable to operate, which are indeed the rest of the former system. These local communities are to be merged into normally large average municipalities suitable for the Slovenian geographical situation and population. We know that Austria has an enormously higher number of municipalities and on average a significantly smaller number of inhabitants. There is also tension between the government and the congregations. And when I spoke to one of Austria’s finance ministers years ago, I asked him if they had made a calculation of what the optimal size of the congregation in Austria would be, in terms of what the congregation was supposed to provide, and in terms of economic conduct. His answer was: about 2,500. Approximately this is the average size of the congregation. This does not mean that this is the lower limit that we now set in the law, but I did not support it. I will therefore support all the suggestions made for the congregations. I am surprised, however, that all the parties and politicians in this country are not prepared to give work to those who are willing to take it. The municipalities must be of assistance to the State; if, of course, the State carries out its tasks, the congregation shall carry them out. Therefore, I simply do not understand the logic of the opposition to the establishment of new municipalities and the association of old local communities. This is not the division of Slovenia, this is the merger of former non-life units that should have their function, in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u80	Thanks for the debate. I give my word to Ambassador Rudy Mohet. He's not in the hall. I give my word to Ambassador Tomaž Stebeth. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u81	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! I will speak unburdenedly and out of righteousness, but with a thorough preparation of thinking, I could prepare, in an orderly manner. But I will exchange principles or starting points with opinions on our assessment of compliance with the criteria and on the appropriateness of the criteria, without going into dispute that Parliament is even deciding on this. It is both human, civil and ethical to leave or to allow democratic and constitutional rights in our role under self-determination. The right to self-government is equal to the right to a decision - whether a community wishes to establish its own local authority. I myself experienced entering politics through the first democratic elections, which have led to Slovenia's independence and statehood after we took the right to self-determination at the referendum. And I have experienced old municipal, large municipalities that have formed with, we can say, violent association based on party directives. And I experienced the establishment of self-governing municipalities, in 1994 and 1995, mainly with a decree of Parliament. And that's because that was the case with the media and the public at the time. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u82	Comrade Šteba, please allow me to ask the Minister and Members of the Republic of Rezman if you continue the debate outside. Please, Comrade Staba.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u83	And that is because even then, the media and public situation was such that people did not know whether they would cause the end of the world by deciding on new congregations. There have been quite a number of intimidations that are still present. Today we are even hearing about gardening, negative decentralisation, fragmentation, which will lead to the collapse of even countries. When the municipality meets the minimum conditions, it is primarily for me to decide to be a self-governance or to rule independently and responsibly. It is certainly more than pointless to mention between the conditions of electricity supply or the provision of postal services, which are not at all municipal activities. It is similar with meeting the conditions for primary health care or library services. These conditions, as well as others, give the impression that the areas that want a new congregation do not have all these public services so far. Then there remains the criterion for the number of inhabitants. This criterion, however we choose, is also difficult to argue. It could have been just one block village, but if there were no numerical border, the congregation could already be any pawnage. Personally, I believe that the essential ability of tradition or willingness to act as a community as a family is essential. That this community, if it is smaller, has at least a few settlements, and that is at least a few territories and some of its diversity, and that it borders neighbouring congregations. Historical circumstances, as well as the practice of the operation of the new municipality in the current situation, such as the local or rural community, could be very important. The reason for the good conditions of operation of the municipalities is not only the cooperation that is still in the wake of Slovenia. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] by means of provincial administrative and regional functions and competences, as well as by increasing the introduction of electronic services, bringing them closer to citizens or citizens. [[...]] The latter could even be an argument for some to abolish municipalities. I believe that now the legal criterion is perfectly clear only for the number of inhabitants, a minimum acceptable number of 2000 inhabitants, as stated in the law in force. Other substantive criteria are feasible or are met, although not in physical form. As it is said, the services required are certainly carried out in areas that want to make democratic decisions and from their own willingness to establish a new congregation. We're a modern country. Throughout the world, in Europe, most democratic countries are regulated so that there are no specific restrictions on the size of municipalities. Thus, there are often municipalities with fewer than 500 inhabitants, even for just a few hundred, such as France, Switzerland, and the United States. We actually have one of these in Slovenia. The vast majority of small and new small congregations, especially the latter, but we also know that they are developing significantly better than in the larger congregations, and that even larger congregations have better development conditions. However, circumstances that are not conducive to the formation of new smaller municipalities are: lower design, intermediate forms of congregation and state organisation. In 1994, when the reform of municipal communities was to create administrative districts, this failed or was not a serious wish to succeed. A very poor starting point is also the previous policy against smaller municipalities, but of course the current one, and the policy against the right to self-government, which is, in addition, unbalanced and incompletely presented in the media. One of such duly designed arrangements to make the establishment of new municipalities or their elimination as bitter as possible are the provisions or recommendations for the sharing or dispersion of property. If the family property were to be distributed according to location, as recommended, those leaving the house would in fact keep only a sense of personal belongings. In my opinion, such an arrangement was even intentional. It is not fair to speak of more expensive municipalities, and both the state and the municipalities decide on the costs of their management. In Slovenia alone, the state apparatus has only increased since the country's initial design. The growth is now shifting to a reduction in the number of employees in the state administration with the current government, which is actually promising this year or the following year too much of the reduction of employees will also occur. All congregations are subject to the same rules regarding income and expenditure, and then there is no basis for talking about expensive smaller congregations. Cost allocation and income decision-making is a fundamental right and responsibility that must be enabled. So that the right to self-governance is not equal to the right of the congregation, so thinking is wrong in my opinion, because I do not think there is a clear reason for such an opinion, because the municipalities are a local self-governance community, freedom of choice requires that this democratic right of decision after self-governance be made possible, so that it is possible for me to manage myself, in a large way. An analogy with a family facilitates understanding of this right, such as leaving home and creating your community. The right to decide on the formation of a self-government community of their own local authorities, which decide on the corresponding and earned or earned revenues and are responsible for the use and management of their own. In the end, only a clear legal provision on the absolute minimum number of inhabitants remains to me, although this may also be a questionable criterion. And if we have to decide not to give anyone the right to make a decision at the referendum, then I will follow this only clear criterion, which cannot be interpreted or replaced otherwise. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u84	Thank you, Comrade Steba. The next on the list of applicants is Member Slavko Gaber. He's not here. I give my word to Ambassador Ivan Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u85	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Today we have an opportunity to hear a number of interlocutors who support the establishment of new congregations, some of whom have concerns. I see a fact or truth somewhere in between, and I stem mainly from Article 138 of the Constitution, which says that the inhabitants of Slovenia exercise local self-government in municipalities and that they can be decided at the referendum itself. However, it should be borne in mind that newly formed municipalities must have at least those minimum conditions for their operations and that they can provide people with those expected development opportunities. As we know, all these minimum conditions are laid down in a law that we have already adopted a few months ago in this National Assembly. As we know, we have received in the procedure over 30 initiatives, proposals from local communities to discuss and decide on them. If we analyze these proposals, we see that some meet all those required conditions, but some do not. I myself have received many calls from those local communities that have put forward these proposals, especially from the environment from which I come from, this is from Dolenjska. The contents of these calls were different. Some have lobbied to support their proposal, but to my surprise, more have been those who have lobbied that we should not support these proposals if people do not want it to be the interest of individual local Februaryes who want to exercise their interests in this way. Personally, I believe that the most democratic way is to allow or allow people to make their own decisions at the referendum. However, here I support the need for all these proposals to have the conditions laid down by the law. In doing so, I personally welcome the fact that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia was correct when it gave its position on this subject, and in doing so it has practically complied with this law. I personally put forward one proposal for the establishment of a new congregation from the local community in my congregation from which I come from the New City. And before I decided to put forward my proposal, I analysed the laboratory and was satisfied with both the content and the arguments that in fact suggest the possibility that this municipality will be able to develop itself better than it is now. I will, of course, support this proposal. I will also support all those proposals that meet these legal criteria, conditions, and then the locals will have the opportunity to decide for themselves at a referendum which, we know, is expected to take place on 29 January next year. On the basis of these decisions, then, these congregations can, in fact, be established or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u86	Thanks, buddy Grill. I give my word to Ambassador Joseph Bajc. I give my word to Ambassador Miran Jeric. Member Marijan Pojbič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u87	Your Honor! I myself will support all the proposals contained in the decree to set up new municipalities or to change their areas that meet the conditions under the law on local self-government. The law adopted this State Assembly this year and I am convinced that it has laid down this law, which deals with the conditions for the establishment of new municipalities, should be fully respected, as it was supported by all coalition parties when it was adopted. I will respect the law because it is the only way we can expect citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia to respect the legislation adopted by this national assembly. At the same time, I am convinced that it is necessary to avoid the agony that has taken place in the past with regard to the establishment of new congregations in this national assembly precisely because the law in force, which regulated this matter, was not respected at the time. Under the Law on Local Self-Government, Articles 13 and 13a clearly state which conditions must be met. And I will quote Article 13a, which stipulates that the municipality has at least 5,000 inhabitants. At the time of its establishment, the municipality may have fewer than 5,000 inhabitants, provided that a new municipality is established with a merger of more than or two municipalities, and for geographical, border, ethnic, historical or economic reasons, a municipality of less than 5,000 but not less than 2,000 inhabitants may be established. The fourth paragraph provides that the criteria set out in Articles 13 and 13a of the Law on Local Self-Government should be respected as a whole when establishing municipalities. I will therefore support all the congregations that meet these conditions, but I am also convinced that in this part we are following the electoral promises we have made to citizens and citizens in the last national elections to support the will of the people and the establishment of new municipalities, which, of course, must meet the legal conditions, which is also enshrined in the coalition treaty. It also seems important to me to emphasise that I will support all proposals for the establishment of municipalities in the constituency in which I was elected, which, of course, meets all the conditions set out in the Law on Local Self-Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u88	Thanks, buddy Pojbich. We continue the debate. Member Davorin Targeton has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u89	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So all the congregations we are establishing today are essentially an exception to the law, which has also been amended before the establishment of new congregations. I think that the establishment of new municipalities is also linked mainly to the financial consequences and is also encouraged by the financial interests of the municipalities, because we know that small congregations are rewarded and not like in some other countries, where they even promote the integration and integration of municipalities. I allow it because today's debate is developing, as if some oppose smaller municipalities, I allow exceptions and even smaller municipalities, but in these cases the country must also take over special tutoring over these municipalities, because there are cases where a community is geographically or, say, rounded up in such a way that it is not possible to meet all the legal frameworks. Of course, we have a situation where most municipalities are donated by the State, especially those that meet all the conditions. In my view, the funding system should be designed so that those who meet the conditions should be self-sufficient and, for exceptions, the state would accept tutoring. I am very, I would say, encouraged by Mr Kokal's debate. He talked about comparable municipalities, that's exactly what - Cardel's way of exercising local self-government. At that time, we had comparable congregations of the size and number of people, and I would point out that the European scratch is different. If you look at France, they have municipalities without a population, because of their history, but they have Paris, which has no idea how many, 10 million people. So this is not a comparable category and I cannot agree with this debate at all. However, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the government should take a more systematic approach to the division of municipalities. It's not just what's happening, it's what's left. I would like to illustrate this with one example, the case of Nova Gorica. The municipality of Nova Gorica, which we call the city municipality, will now remain with the core of Nova Gorica, from which a particular urban section has already separated in the past, was the congregation Šempeter-Vrtojba, which is essentially entangled in the very city of Nova Gorica. The municipality of Rence-Vogrsko is now separated. I am not opposed to an initiative which, according to the legal framework, is legitimate and which was legitimately proposed by the proposer. But the government should see what's left. And now we have the municipality of Nova Gorica, if this is accepted, with the urban centre to which the part has already been taken, along with the hospital as an important attribute of the city and region, on the other hand we have in this municipality Nova Gorica, Banjšica, Banjska Planoto, where, if you take the word from your colleague Gantar, you can say that there are many bears or more bears than humans. On the other hand, we will have another part of this congregation, which will remain in the city congregation of Nova Gorica. Here I am thinking mainly of the settlements Brannik, Dornberk and Prvačina, which are not actually infrastructure-related to their centre at all. No smart infrastructure, no road leads to the center and if these citizens want to go to the seat of their congregation, they must travel through two municipalities; over one already established, and one that will - if it will. So this is a completely, completely non-systemic work, and the government, if not a proponent, should propose a solution that is consistent and that would circle the area geographically. And this is a typical example of how we "sharp" according to the map after a free assessment of Slovenia and set up municipalities without asking what remains of those municipalities from which they are excluded. And here I think the government canceled. I would also like to say that I am surprised at the position of the new ruling coalition on the committee when they rejected the proposal to establish the Ankaran-Croatian municipality. It would be no wonder if we opposed it because we always opposed it because it was not the will of the people in the city congregation of Koper. But if we remember history, then the opposition, the current ruling coalition, has always supported it. More divisions than just that and that, is the only case that meets all the legal requirements! And now we're going to set up all the exceptions, and whoever's no exception, they're not even going to get that right at the referendum. This is absolutely, so to speak, a work that introduces new confusion, certainly, into the map of local self-government in Slovenia, so that I do not touch regionalisation and others. Only in the previous term, when the coalition was quite large, in my opinion, did this pressure abstain, and it was approximately respected by law when we established only one congregation that fulfilled all the conditions under the law at that time. These proposals also comply with the amended law, but they are all in the category of exceptions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u90	Thank you, Comrade Terchon. I give my word to Ambassador Paul Rupar.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u91	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues! Maybe a little history. That we today have such different opinions from Members and Members of this National Assembly, we can find or find an apology in the past. Regrettably, in establishing congregations, previous coalitions adopted laws or laws in this area that were later disregarded or failed to comply with the law. Which is perfectly logical to some extent, because it is the creation or giving of a green light for referendum areas, only for political will, which is the only logical thing in this House, because everything else, as regards expertise and other matters, is, in most cases, only apparent. The establishment of congregations in the past was or is still merely and exclusively a lobbying matter. This is how MEPs of all parties present themselves today in one and the same parties, amendments or proposals are tabled by Members of all parties, and very rarely happens to find such a compatible party that they can say, even the smallest, and these are uniform. She's not in this national council. As a result of the injustices that have taken place in many congregations or places in the past, we today have a similar situation as has been done in history. People still hope that we will break the law, they still hope that we will take into account the opinions of individuals, including those parts in Slovenia that are in no way sufficient to meet the conditions and are entitled to this hope completely. Because we have failed them so many times in the past and have failed them so many times, some, but not that it is entirely logical, that is their hope. Unfortunately, however, the new government and the new coalition have decided to amend the law on the establishment of municipalities, where, according to my assessment, it has made a huge mistake, sorry, colleagues and colleagues from the Slovenian Democratic Party, too. We all stabbed ourselves with the number of inhabitants, or zero or 2,000 or 5,000, then there was a proposal for 3,000, and we came up with some, in my opinion, a senseless number of 2,000, which was just a compromise proposal and then proposed to receive a national assembly, where most of them also accepted it. In dealing with the number of people, however, we have completely forgotten all the other criteria. Thus today we hear that it is pointless to use in marriage the provision that it is necessary to have mail, which is really pointless, a trade, which is totally unrelated, because they have it in all places, an absolute school, each with a library, because it is in the education law. We even forgot to change the health condition at home. And here comes the biggest dilemma in one party and another, whether it is now the health care home that needs to physically stand with the infirmary, or the infirmary itself, or whether it is enough for them to have an organized health care service in these places. Once again, there are misunderstandings, different interpretations, different opinions, which, at least in my opinion, no matter what happens after the vote today, will not and must not affect the situation in the coalition and the firm commitment that these coalitions will lead all the other programmes forward. It's simple. If we were to hesitate or argue in such very minor matters as 15, 16, or 33 places in Slovenia, then we really are not worthy to lead this country. Because I have a different opinion and I trust in strong ties, and other programmes that are much more important than these few smaller villages that are supposed to become congregations, I think that today the process will go as before, in the sense of lottery: some will get, some will not. And believe me, soon, as before, things will be pretty normal again. And if I have been critical of the adoption of laws and of these laws, then I will say that I can and am rightly critical of those who will not respect what we have adopted. I can be critical, and I can be disappointed to some extent, because I personally believe that there is no mandate, there is no political decision that could give rise to violations of certain laws, as I have already said many times before, then let us politically consider giving any arrest that he has killed, or any thief who has stolen, a political decision that he may have broken the law and that he may be completely innocent from this point of view, but that certainly cannot be. It may not be the most appropriate comparison, but it's pretty absurd, and that's why I think it's so much more understandable. Respect for the law, at least in this case, is at least a perfect logic for me, and I am already apologizing in advance to all those who are carrying out really terrible pressures, especially to the President of the Local Self-Government Committee, but to look at the magnetograms from the past, what he said about one congregation, how he was cheering for a third, how he then broke the law elsewhere. So this is true, and I admit for myself, that in view of the widespread violation of the laws or acceptances of those days, this was allowed somewhere, and I now estimate that this is no longer the case. In particular, not because those who had taken individual initiatives knew what the law was like, but because they had gone ahead to make individual proposals beyond that law. So it was some pressure on individual Members by the motioners who knew that the Member had to break the law if he wanted to meet them, and they did it anyway. Is that fair? I'm sorry, I don't think that's fair if we know in advance what they've determined that being a writer and blackmailing individuals is impossible here to the limits. Therefore, let me be forgiven in advance for not supporting such proposals. I have a very big concern with the congregation of Ankaran-Croatia, mainly because it is an artificial division, but unfortunately the only congregation, the only proposal that would be properly and meaningfully supported, is that it meets all the criteria. The only one, the number of inhabitants and all the other conditions. Everything else is exclusively and only political matter. So it is the political opinion of the government, if you want, of the individual parties, so will the vote. However, Croatians, Ankaran-Croatians, nevertheless experience one particular story. This story, however, is the third proposal and the third time it will be the referendum. In the past, there were two referendums in the Kopra area and in these areas, in 1996, people decided by 83% that the remainder of the entire Koper congregation, the next election, or the next referendum, were even 85% in Croatia and also later, in 2000, the percentage of people who somehow expressed the desire to remain in the same congregation in the city of Koper. Here is my thought, the only reason why it makes sense again and again and again to apply for a referendum where people have decided more than a two-thirds majority not to want the congregation. It is for individuals, as in most cases, this path in Ankara and Croatia by those who read today's novel by one of the colleagues from the United List who appeals to the saints, so it is easy to secession, but it does not make a city, but it works finance. It's about money. In Cyprus, it's nothing more than Luke Koper and the money that everybody's fighting so hard for now. If the referendum in Ankara and the Croatians is confirmed, then of course I want it to take place there as the will of the people will. I certainly do not allow it, and I cannot help but overtake certain criticisms for a bad congregation, the Municipality of Koper, in order to misguide it, for example, those rulers now in power in Koper, if Koper is so despicable now that Ankaran is currently being vaccinated. So it's a very big political manipulation and a great danger, because then those who have been defending the Single City Hall of Koper all these years are simply lying. Hence, they probably did so only after a political decision and some weighting of political stability or popularity, not for the benefit of people, but for their own benefit. Of course, I hope that today’s day will unravel so that as many people as possible will be happy. They will be pleased to have the opportunity for a referendum, as will some, against the other, who will not. Because about all the suggestions, all the people are far away from wanting to have their own congregation. Even so, we have announced visits from parts of the congregation that some of the candidates who have given you nothing to do with it, so that if we don’t have a full glass, but we will pour a little rain, no matter what’s in there, it’s important that the glass is full. The joy will certainly not die for those who today will not get this opportunity to comfort them and call coalition partners if we say that we have a completely meaningless law on the establishment of municipalities, which is the truth, hand to heart, is old, is somewhat frivolous, but it is seeded; if we want to have a new hairstyle here, then we need to change hair. And in this case, I call for us to sit together immediately after this process, so partners together, and make a new law. The law, which will cover both the establishment and the integration of municipalities, both in financial terms, is the financing of municipalities, the region, regionalism, and, of course, the integration and establishment of new municipalities. When these components are brought together in the new law, from then on believe that there will be no more conflicts, whether we want many small municipalities or want to unite congregations, if they determine the clear and smart ones, which I hope this coalition, together with the opposition, can accept, then we can define the establishment of municipalities for many years, for many years. As long as we're going to play games, bats, but as long as we're in this room, there's going to be total chaos and nothing but barbarism for you and me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u92	Thank you. We continue the debate. I give my word to Ambassador Drag Koren. Member Matjaž Švagan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u93	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. I can say that as the mayor of Zagorje, I speak for most of the parties in our municipality, except New Slovenia, which also proposed an amendment to the establishment of Izlaka. Of course, the first amendment was rejected by the government or the local government. I just want to say how, in what way, these municipalities were established in Slovenia. Just an example of this congregation, where NSI or colleague Capuder set up this congregation right under the table. When these two were negative opinions, they passed the will of the people - to at least anyone to visit them - because the municipality of Izlake, if it were, would be an island within the municipality of Zagorje, which would be a unique case in Slovenia or Europe. And such a way of establishing a congregation, it seems to me that it is hidden from the will of the people, the countrymen and the peoples of Poland, who have been forcibly joined by the government to fail to meet the conditions, under the local community of Izlaka as a referendum area. And yesterday was an extraordinary meeting of the municipal council, where it was clearly stated, with the signatures of 90% of the voters and voters of Polšina, that they did not go to the municipality of Izlaka, that they were pleased in the municipality of Zagorje, so I also tabled this amendment. And I suggest that you support it and therefore respect the will of the services for local self-governments, the will of the locals and the locals of Polšina, the municipality of Zagorje and thus democracy in Slovenia. And I propose that NSI also respects the will of the country and of the country, not of the local community. And of course, as I have also pointed out publicly, I admire the Prime Minister, Mr Janša, that he has a NSI party in the government that does not respect the will of people or countries and country women in these cases. And I suggest you support my amendment under the 12th point on behalf of the people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u94	Thank you. I invite Member Bojan Kontic to the floor. Replica, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u95	The law is so written that Members make proposals. As for people's will, you have 90 percent of the country's signatures. I also sign 16 countries and it's very interesting about this thing that quite a few countries appear on both lists. Or on those lists where they are against the congregation and on those lists where they are for this congregation. That's why I think it's really the best decision for people to decide for themselves at the referendum and then say it. However, New Slovenia is such a party that it will respect the will expressed in the referendum.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u96	Thank you. As a rule, there's no replica to the replica. Allow me, colleague Švagan, also the debate in which the replica and the basics took place is part of the debate around the amendment. When we are finished with the general debate, the purpose of which is, as explained earlier, the objectives and principles of the motion for a decree, then we will be guided by the debate on the amendments tabled. I believe, and I know that then will be a suitable time for this kind of bilateral position to be given. We continue the debate. I give my word to my colleague, Bojan Kontic. [[He's not here.]] I give the word "magic." Capudra.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u97	Thank you very much. There are many arguments for and against the new municipalities. But the fact is, local self-government has been well received in the last 11 years. In Slovenia, about half of municipalities have fewer than 5,000 inhabitants. These are primarily new congregations, and I am sure that most of them work well together to be successful. It is important to stress the important fact that there is no proposal for such a municipality to cease to exist or for more municipalities to unite into a new one. The situation around us in Austria, Germany, Croatia is similar. At times, congregations are even smaller than our own. I am convinced that the system of local self-government is a very important development tool and some strict economic eligibility or a strict self-sufficiency requirement cannot be argued that the new municipality would not be established. When we founded the University of Primorsk, we were very well aware of its positive impact on the development and preservation of this area, although then and even now there are not all conditions for its normal functioning. In my opinion, suitable municipalities can be a very important tool for rural development and for solving the demographic picture of our country. Just insistence in large congregations often leads to uneven development and neglect of remote areas of larger municipalities. Areas acting as autonomous municipalities would be very difficult to obtain a better development instrument than the municipality’s institute. In such municipalities there is at home innovation and willingness to work, even for free, all for the common good. That, I'm sure, says enough. That is why I will support the motion for a decree, because I am convinced that the inhabitants of an area should at least be allowed, if not the other, to decide for themselves at the referendum whether they will have a new municipality in that area or not. Of course, I will respect such referendum will, I reiterate, I will respect it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u98	Thank you. I give my word to the Lady of the Flower of Zalokar Orazem. Member Branko Marinič is the last person on the list registered for the general part of the decree. Then I ask the government whether, in the context of the questions that have been raised regarding general work, he wants a word. [[No, no, ……]] Then I conclude the general debate on the proposal for a decree. In accordance with the agreement at the morning college, we will first proceed to the discussion on the sections and amendments tabled, which I will lead on the basis of the review of the amendments you received, according to my information, 40 minutes ago on the bench. I ask whether Members and Members have received a review of the amendments. I take that as a yes. So, once again, I repeat, we are moving on to a debate, not a decision on individual amendments. We will decide after we have discussed all the amendments and divisions tabled. I am putting the first section and amendments to the debate for a new A point. We have 8 amendments before us, the candidates of the Slovenian People's Party's parliamentary groups by the first six, at the seventh, the motioner, Mr Franz Pukšič, and at the eighth, the Slovenian People's Party's Group. I'd like to ask all the discussers to tell us which amendment to which order number they're advertised under. I'm opening a debate. Mojca Kucler Dolinar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u99	Thank you very much. I will discuss the amendment under point 2, concerning the establishment of a referendum area for the establishment of a municipality and the identification of part of the municipality in the new municipality of Rakek from the existing municipality of Cerknica. I myself am the proposaler of the amendment, which is under the second heading, and I believe that this amendment is justified and that is why I also invite other fellow Members and Members of Parliament to support it. In particular, the initiators, who have also asked me to forward their initiative to this respected National Assembly, stress that local self-government in their and specifically in the Rakeka area with the settlements of Ivanje village, Rakek, Rakov Škocjan, Slivica and Unec is at a very low level and fell to the lowest level years ago. On the other hand, they note that the funds spent and acquired in the Rakek area have not been proportionate for several decades to those funds which the municipality receives as income and which it then invests back in their territory. So there is more income from the countries from this area, while for a long time it has been delayed by some of the urgently needed investments. In particular, there is a justification for historical reasons. Rakek was already his congregation, which served very well, and was also the seat of the district with the court, the post office, the school, the kindergarten, the music school. And over the years, it's all moved from their place. In particular, the initiators, in the context of the municipality so far, want to say that it did not know or wanted to take advantage of certain options towards faster economic development and conditions for the development of entrepreneurship, and thus justify and I believe that the reasons are both historical, geographical and economic. The healthcare home might be the only obstacle that some Members would turn away from voting for this initiative, but they justify in their report and in their elaboratory that health care is ensured and that it is not an obstacle to deter someone from supporting this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u100	Thank you. We continue the debate. Member Michael Prevc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u101	Thank you very much for your words, dear colleagues and colleagues. Indeed, the Slovenian People’s Party’s Parliamentary Group has tabled as many as seven proposals for the newly formed municipalities, all of which are those municipalities that meet all the conditions, except that there is no medical home located in these municipalities, but we are convinced that primary health care in these municipalities is fully ensured. And that is why I do not agree with some predecessors, who, of course, are already scaring us in advance, those who have proposed amendments to break the law. I'm sure in this case it's not a violation of the law. I just want to say one thing. These proposals come from the will of the people. Only one short article, which was published today in Dnevnik, is the proposal of the newly formed congregation Log-Dragomer, which is to be removed from the municipality of Vrhnika. It reads: "With raised hands the inhabitants of the two upper local communities Drager, Lukovica and Log pri Brezovica confirmed on Tuesday the efforts of the civil initiative to establish the independent municipality Log-Dragomer. This time they have a few more options." Perhaps even an elaborate or 1,500 signatures were collected in these two local communities. So it appears that in these local communities, there is a great desire for a single congregation among these people, and let them decide on their own congregation at the referendum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u102	Thank you. Member Marjetka Uhan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u103	Thank you so much for saying that. I am discussing the establishment of a referendum area for the establishment of the Municipality of Šentrupert. I do have a request on behalf of the Stuprupert local community instigators. The municipality has 2,400 inhabitants today, or local communities, for the third time in their efforts to establish their own congregation, which was abolished after 1960 against the will of the people. The municipality itself was the centre of the Mirska Valley, economically and culturally developed, with a rich history, today has about 600 jobs. And they are convinced that in a single congregation, they can better meet the needs of the local community. Because of their ten years of longing for a new municipality, they were deliberately hindered in the municipality of Trebnje in their efforts to develop the place, especially with regard to investments, especially in the construction of a healthcare home or the upgrading of a school, a kindergarten that is too small for the needs of the place. This congregation also meets all the conditions, except for the health care home, for the reasons I listed earlier. They have a dental clinic, and they have attached a statement by a private company willing to invest in the construction of a healthcare home as soon as a new municipality is established. Otherwise, we all know that the presence of a healthcare professional at home can't force anyone to really be their patient. Thus, the locals are already bound to various health care homes and not only Trebnje, where they belong, but also to Mokronog, Novo mesto and elsewhere, because we know for ourselves that it is a free choice of a doctor. As noted earlier, they strive for it, but it is impossible to do so under the present congregation. I find it really childish to insist on a healthcare home, since today they especially need our political will. I really don’t know if they’re going to try the congregation for the fourth time or if they can still rely on political promises. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u104	Thank you. I give my word to Ambassador Jacob the President.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u105	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Not to repeat, we have made quite a few suggestions. Only those proposals for the establishment of municipalities or the holding of a referendum where this condition is missing are those proposals, some of which have also been held in this National Assembly by some debaters. I would like to take a third-party call, this is point 5, which is the referendum area or the exclusion from the Municipality of Mozirje of the local community of Vrečič. I have already pointed out one case in the general debate before, and this is the one where, by a decision taken by one of the then Members, who is still a member of the Social Democrats today, this is the one where he proposed the removal of one settlement from the Mozire Congregation and the accession to another municipality. In this way, I had already advocated, of course, that in this way we had broken up one congregation in two parts, but at that time I was not understood in this national assembly. And one of the consequences, of course, is this proposal that, of course, this cut-off part be established as a new congregation. Second of all, as far as health care is concerned. The locals of this place now benefit most of the health services in the third congregation and not in the home congregation because of the extreme proximity of places and because of such a way of organizing health care. This is how I support this point, of course, and in others we have already spoken out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u106	Thank you. Member Brenčič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u107	Thank you very much. But I have said something before, and I will say this to Mr Rupar, President of the Commission, that it is absolutely destructive to rely on limited conditions after the provision of insufficient health care. Nonsens would be that, for example, Rakek would supply himself some space, some exhibition, some health care home, if he was five minutes away from the Notranjska health home, which he built and that's why it's nonsense. That's what I was gonna say. The other thing is. There's a bunch of ego in it, but let's let people decide for themselves. Far from the fact that Rakek was not invested in the local community, as Mrs Kuclerov said, I know it well, and I worked there. The easiest is one rich, concentrated part of the municipality to eliminate, they will be self-sufficient, that is the only truth. Rakek’s local community invested a lot while I was there and throughout the church congregation. It's a lapus, as they say. But let us give people the opportunity to identify themselves with responsibility for what they can expect better for life than for a single congregation. I'm sure this environment will make the right decision. Thank you. Of course, I will support the amendment, let us give them this self-determination, and let them also take responsibility for the continuation of life in this part of Notranjska. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u108	Thank you. Member Franz Pukšič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u109	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm going to do something like this that I would actually recommend to a lot of fellow Members to look for their magnetogram from the previous term and read that performance he had at the time of the establishment of the municipalities and, of course, everything will be told. On 21 February 2002, Franz Pukšič said at the 13th regular meeting concerning the establishment of the municipality of Leskovec: "I am joining the proposal to vote in favour of the establishment of this municipality and what they wrote is correct. Proposal for the establishment of a new municipality, Leskovec. The Municipality of Videm supports the establishment of a municipality in the area of 1980. The proposer shall justify the proposal with a rounded geographical whole, a boundary position, an area and a position in the hilly part of the present municipality. I think they have all the right under the applicable legislation to get the referendum area. "Thank you." This time, too, my amendment is because none of the other Members or Members' groups have tabled it, but their role has been the third time on the table. From the review of compliance - even ironic - Upper Leskovec also meets the so-called health care home. So they have six "yes" at all points. The consent of the municipal council of Videm - yes. It is only us who will give them the right to decide what kind of congregation they will live in. To them too, I am sure, so I ask you, Members and Members, to vote in favour of this amendment and give them this opportunity. However, I am joining all those amendments, and I will support them, regardless of whether some under the so-called health care after interpretation, which I think is wrong. Even if someone has read the interpretation of the Ministry of Health, what health care and health care mean, everyone else who has this "no" in here also has these conditions met. And the only fair thing from this national council would be to give them that opportunity. I am very pleased with the previous statement by the President of the Commission for Regional Development and Policy when he said we have bad legislation. That is true, I agree with him, but because someone has not done something in this national assembly, so he has made bad legislation, we must not now prevent citizens and citizens from making decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u110	Thanks, buddy Puksich. I give my word to Mr. Matjaž Švagan.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u111	Thank you very much again for your word. I would merely replicate to Mr Capudre, who gave this amendment, the annexation of part of the congregation under "as the former congregation" of Izlaka that I am right. 90% of the country’s and the country’s countries do not agree to be placed under the Izlaka Congregation as a referendum area. Of course, it is much easier for him to mislead the public than for me who live there and I also want democracy to still be at home in Slovenia, not in political parties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u112	Member Christian Janc has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u113	Thank you very much. What I stressed earlier in the general debate is that it is right to let people decide if they want their own congregation. The minimum conditions, those who have been amended, meet, and let us leave this open road for them today to make the day better for those candidates and candidates, but at the referendum they decide on their will. A number of such congregations have already been added to these amendments, and I am sure that a health moment cannot be a decisive condition for them not to make decisions about their congregation. That would be nonsense, of course, despite the fact that this is enshrined in the legislation. I am sure that this condition has a step further, in the next place where they have jointly built health homes, hospitals and other matters, and thus, of course, there can be no obstacle. Since I am a neighbor of the congregation of Šentrupert, or congregation of Trebnje, where Šentrupert has been actively trying to get through this story since 1995, he may succeed this time. I believe it will be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u114	Thank you very much. I give the word to Paul Rupar, who at the same time apologized to him for my failure to overlook. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u115	I didn't say anything to the chairman. Mr Brenčič as well as his colleague Pukšič. True, it is nonsense that because of a definition of marriage, people have to give up or not have the opportunity to establish a congregation, even though it is a health home that is only five minutes from the border of the original congregation. But, gentlemen, hand to heart, this nonsense we have written down in marriage ourselves, we must apologize to those people who now hope that we will break because we have accepted it ourselves, and they will not succeed. And we have to put our hands on our hearts and say, please forgive us, we have made a grave mistake, because we have overlooked some of the provisions that are now unfortunately in force in the pit, in panic, in inattention, in the confusion. And this is my excuse to all those who will not be able to pass the law in a different way than my conscience dictates. But not now in front of these people, individuals above all, to strain and sneeze with no idea which feathers, but those who are now passing the law will give you congregations, but before you fucked them up when you didn't look at these laws. This is my criticism of the adoption of this law, and perhaps the hope of an apology, of course, has assured us that we will have to sit down and, in the next term or the next local elections, adopt such an orderly law that it will no longer allow these absurdities which we face here.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u116	Thank you. Replica, Comrade Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u117	It's not a replica, it's a correction. There's nothing over the law or over the law. The Health Act was formerly a law on local self-government. And the Health Act establishes a network at an appropriate level of health care and everything is in accordance with the law. And the content that should be taken into account under this law by the local government and the commission - you are not, but you must. The law tells you that.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u118	Thanks for the debate. We'd like to take part in the debate - peace in the hall, please. [[...]] A colleague of Puksic has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u119	I replicate in that part, in the part where my colleague Rupar says that someone would be breaking the law now, in contrast to the law, they would give someone this opportunity and others would stick to the law and act in accordance with the law. That's not what this is about. It is about the fact that the referendum law in a certain referendum area is the same as the law; one and the other, it is adopted by this national assembly and cannot be in a colossal state; and we must give citizens and citizens the opportunity to define themselves in what kind of organisation they want to live in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u120	Thank you. Does anyone else want to discuss the available time of the parliamentary groups? Comrade Juban, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u121	Thank you very much. I apologize for not passing, Mr President, the debate on the amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u122	From 1 to 8 to the first section.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u123	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u124	Good. I give my word to the Pecans.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u125	Thank you very much. After all, there is still enough time left for me to allow myself to introduce a little dissonance into this very agreeable singing assembly that we have heard today. In fact, it is very good to hear that it is necessary to leave future citizens or current citizens to exercise their will and to say that they want to have a congregation that is now formally or with minor corrections, with minor beautiful errors, meeting the conditions of the new law. Of course, there is now the question of what the terms of the law mean. Perhaps it is only that the government coalition can keep its conscience in mind that those municipalities that were established in the first round, the second and third rounds, and far from capturing the conditions not only those that were written in the original law - 5,000 inhabitants and all the rest - but also those first, new conditions - are said to be 2,000 inhabitants and those that are among them - are far from fulfilling, but were established at the will of not the inhabitants, but at the will of the Members and Members who then voted the possibility of a referendum in areas that did not meet the basic legal conditions. Today, too, by voting those who have tabled amendments that do not comply with the law will be given the opportunity to allow the inhabitants of individual areas in Slovenia to decide that they will have a municipality in an area that does not meet the legal conditions. Your will, your responsibility. I think that, however, consistency, one of the Members has now also warned, consistency in his work through all the mandates that Members of the Social Democrats and formerly the United List of Social Democrats have followed that the establishment of new municipalities that do not meet the conditions - not only that, but also the new municipalities that need to survive in order to survive not from year to year, but from month to month, they need the enormous amounts provided by the State in their budget. This does not mean that these municipalities have provided better conditions in their area for the development of the economy, for better employment. If we just look at this fact that in northeastern Slovenia there are so many municipalities that according to the logic of the things that are all co-financing, they are all subsidized, these small municipalities in northeastern Slovenia, but unemployment is still the highest in Slovenia, economic development staggers, and thus the claim that life is easier and better for the population does not hold, because they have small municipalities.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u126	My colleague Pecanov, if you'll excuse me. I must remind you that we have concluded our general debate on the motion for a decree [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u127	I am talking about the amendment, Mr President. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u128	At this point, I will allow the debate exclusively on the proposed amendments. Please give me the serial number of the amendment you're talking about.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u129	From 1 to 8 I say, because every new congregation that is formed is in this list Good, I will read: "As a referendum area is designated part of the congregation Bled to the new municipality of Gore." [[...]] I think it's unhealthy, it's immature, because it's gonna be touched, so it's not going to develop any faster. I feel the same for Rakek, Ivanje village, Rakov Škocjan, Slivice and Unec, from which the new rakek municipality is to be formed. I also find it pointless that Lower Idrija is created as a new municipality by conflicts between the two companies in the area. I find it pointless that a new congregation of St. Yuri in Slovenian Gorica. It will certainly achieve a very high level of balance, and this will not be known in their employment growth area, in economic growth and in all other positive moments. Nor will it be known that the new congregation of Rečica near Savinja will be expelled from the Mozire Congregation. When I see in four years' time the statistics on employment in this congregation, which will certainly be produced, because you will vote on this amendment, I will ask you if I will not be in Parliament, otherwise, publicly, in writing, prove to the Members of Parliament and Members who have made it possible for you to create a new congregation that does not evolve as you say that it would develop if, or that it will develop today, how this statement of yours is not realized. The same applies to the municipality of Šentrupert. Even there, I could see with my own eyes that there was no reason for the Needs to be divided into a number of congregations. Because Trebnje is a very promising congregation and it would be beneficial for people to become more united and to develop together more rapidly. The same applies to the municipality of Zgornji Leskovec. This is a very special case. We talked about this municipality back in 1994, when the law on local self-government was first adopted, and the fact is that there is even a problem with the number of people. Unless it has been possible recently, there has been such a high birth rate that it has exceeded 2,000 inhabitants. And go ahead. The same applies to the Municipality of Log-Dragomelj. Why should some set up congregations in need of additional State aid? Why? If that were to produce some results in a better life for the people -- okay! The roads will be better, the sewers may be better received, the water pipeline will be built - 50.60% of the funding for important municipal investments from the state budget will be paid for all of this. But this does not guarantee the accelerated development of the municipalities, my people! And I say the same thing about the separation of the congregation of Bogojin from the Moravian spas. We also have two different proposals for the congregation that is supposed to be formed, Dobrova - interesting. Are the inhabitants familiar with this, colleagues and colleagues? And so on and so forth. I do not think that it is necessary to bind itself to the amendments, Mr President, it is generally clear that the municipalities are being established in the hope that some who have taken these initiatives will become mayors, that they will be important people in their environment. However, let them say today before they go to the elections whether in four years they will be able to prove that the standard of the population is greater, not in the sense of where the state "fila" the municipal budget and co-finances investments, but in the sense that the number of employees is greater, that the personal standard of the population is greater, that the population is more satisfied with their lives, that they will not have to go to the neighbouring congregation and drive the children into kindergarten, but that they will be able to do all of this at home - not only make children, but also take the children into kindergarten, into their own congregation kindergarten. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u130	Peace in the hall, please! Comrade Pechanova, you yourself have observed Peace in the Hall! [[...]] Comrade Sok, if you'll excuse me, please, I'm in charge of the session. Comrade Pecanov, you yourself have noticed when you speak unprepared to go through a section that is even open. You went to section number 2, to which Members have warned you and to which I have also warned you, but, of course, everyone has the opportunity when the microphone is turned on to say a lot of things. We will continue the debate. I ask all future debaters to stick to the subject of the amendment. Once again, we have concluded with a general debate. Whoever was not here during the general debate is his mistake not to burden the national assembly. And we're moving forward effectively. A colleague of Trofenik has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u131	Thank you for your word. I'm going to talk about the amendment at 7th or 8th. In point 7, the proposal for the establishment of the municipality of the Centre ob Drava, but two settlements, Grabe and Obrež, submitted an initiative under the law and statute to the municipal council to call for a referendum to join the local community of Ormož because they do not want to be in the new congregation. The content of the amendment is that for these two settlements in the proposed new municipality of Medišče ob Drava, a specific referendum area is established, as the result will also be determined for the municipal referendum. The same content is also proposed under point 8 for the new municipality of Sveti Tomaž, where Gornji Klukarovski wishes to carry out the same referendum to join the municipality or local community of Ormož, and the amendment is to separate the result in this referendum area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u132	I also have a member of the Parliament of Jerovsk on the list of applicants. He's quitting. My friend Kokalj. Here you go. Let the others hear you too.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u133	I'm sorry. I understood that we are now discussing under point 1a to point 8. So, to page five. Mr. Trofenik has discussed the amendments far further. So now I'm asking if we can discuss the first chapter, the whole of it, or whether we can follow the points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u134	Look, I can't know what any of the Members or Members of Parliament is going to discuss. I just can't predict it in advance. The more I try to steer you, the more I just can't. We continue with the debate tabled. A representative of the government also took part in the debate. Mr. Rokavec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u135	Thank you for your word. Dear Members, Members, President! I would just like to comment on that part of the debate, I think that the honourable Member, Mrs Pečanova, has said that the municipalities that are being established are in fact all the municipalities that will be allocated from the state budget. I think it is necessary to establish that in this country we have 90% of all municipalities at the so-called financial level now. With the exception of the proposal to establish a new municipality of Ankara-Croatia, perhaps also Rence-Vogris, all proposals are in the area of municipalities which are already on financial standstill. And the system of funding the municipalities we have, in some ways by establishing new municipalities, does not have any new financial implications for the state budget. This is a so-called redistribution of funds within that area. It is true that resources are needed for the functioning of the administration, but this is the old autonomy of local self-government, where necessary, of course in this context, everyone will assess in his/her capacity how much resources will be allocated to the functioning of his/her local administration, how much for the remaining resources and for development. I therefore believe that in the framework of the existing system, which I do not claim to be the best, but in some ways I have to contribute to certain transfers of financial resources, because Slovenia, as well as the potential of obtaining its own resources from municipalities, will never be able to ensure such acquisition of financial resources and such a system so that all municipalities can be self-financed. Then we will make the system of funding and independence to carry out key local tasks for local self-government significantly worse than we do. In the government service, we will seek to reach a system where this percentage would be significantly higher, but a certain framework for redistribution of funds will be urgently needed, so-called preservation of a certain part of the financial settlement, even in the future, if we want to ensure the effective functioning of local self-government. It is illustrative to discuss that municipalities should fully provide their own financial resources for their activities in the light of the possibilities of the area in the Republic of Slovenia. If we want to go in this direction, then we will make it literally the other way around so that it will not actually be possible for entire areas to carry out those urgent tasks, which are, of course, also recorded in the European Charter on Local Self-Government. Therefore, I believe that these comparisons will never be possible and will never be feasible in the sense that the system would be effective and that it would, of course, also bring its objectives.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u136	Thank you. In connection with the amendments to the first section, he applied for the word of his colleague Pukšič. Excuse me, please. Procedural proposal? My colleague Kucler, please. Mrs. Pecan, you'll have to wait a little longer.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u137	I merely ask out of caution, President, will you also open the debate next to the other points of this section or not?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u138	I'll give you an answer. Look. I put to the debate the amendments that are on the pages. The first to Section 1 for a new a point proposed by the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Below the amendment under order number 2, where they are the same in point 1. -proposer of the Slovenian People's Party Parliamentary Group on the other hand. Furthermore, the amendment on the other side of the review is also proposed by the Slovenian People's Party Group. Furthermore, on page 3, the amendment under order number 4, also proposed by the Slovenian People's Party's Group. On the same side, we have an amendment with order number 5 proposed by the Slovenian People's Party's Group. In doing so, I remind you that the amendment that you received from Ambassador Mirk Zammernik came out of the review of the amendments. Then we have on page 4 of the amendment under order 6 proposed by the Slovenian People's Party's Group. At the bottom of the code 4 page there is an amendment with code 7 and is proposed by Ambassador Franz Puksič. And in the debate at this point, only the amendment under order 8 is proposed by the Slovenian People's Party's Group. I believe that now we all know what is the subject of the debate, but not the decision-making. A word? You wanted a replica, Ambassador Pecanov? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u139	Chairman, very short. It is true that in Mr Hribar's case I failed my mathematical exam, but my mathematics is very good, you know, Mr. Rokavec. And I have to tell you, I know very well how to calculate the compensation for subsidised municipalities, if I may say so. The rule is that when [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Help me, but tell me more out loud that I'll know what you're about to say. I won't go any further if you don't tell me what kind of comments you've got, or if you don't call me when it's time. I wanted to say that the rule is that when the municipality receiving the compensation is divided into two municipalities, the sum of the two settlements after the divorce is greater than the original settlement. Rule. Not always, but it is a rule and there are only exceptions that do not confirm this rule. When the calculation was made for the division of the city of Koper, the only potential congregation of Ankaran was such that it did not need to be compensated, the real city municipality of Koper, which is self-sufficient, would then be divided into 5 municipalities, three of which would receive very much compensation. So don't hold what you're saying, Mr. Rokavec. The fact is that the formation of these new congregations, not only those in the amendments, including those former ones with the exception, as you said, probably Ankaran, Croats, Renche and I think that even Rakek would probably not need to be compensated, whereas all the others would be more than the sum. The total will, as a rule, be greater for all than by not being a reallocation, but by increasing the expenditure of the state budget. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u140	Thank you. We continue the debate. A colleague of Puksic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u141	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. The Municipality of Leskovec, Zgornji Leskovec, which will be created as long as we give her the opportunity to call a referendum, and the other amendments tabled have a positive component for the development of this country. That's proved to be true by now. We have 193 municipalities in the country. When I read the reports of the Courts of Auditors, they mainly found corruption, theft, irregularities in large municipalities. Substantially less than or almost nothing - the errors that occurred were in smaller congregations that were already heading toward. This is also one of the reasons why it makes sense to fix it. If local self-government gave municipalities more powers, more opportunities, then even in areas such as the economy such as social care would be significantly better conditions than they are today. What local communities got in control of this is basically, I'm not going to say 100% - here and there between the beautiful wheat fields is also some weed. However, they mainly controlled the quality of life in this area significantly: not only asphalt, but also, if you want, programs, B programs in primary education, learning two foreign languages, learning computer science, for all, not only for those whose parents have the resources. Therefore, Members and Members, I appeal that we support these amendments and allow for the better development of this country, which we are also responsible for.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u142	Thank you. The Secretary of State, Mr Rokavec, has entered the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u143	Thank you for your word. Just two items. What Mrs Pecanova previously said about the financial implications for the state budget. These consequences are not yet calculated at this time, once the proposals have been finalised when the electorate and the electorate are identified in each area. Globally, however, they are negligible in relation to other government budget expenditure. Given what local self-government is contributing to the development of the Republic of Slovenia, these financial consequences are negligible in relation to the remaining expenditure of the state budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u144	Thank you. I call to the floor the Ambassador of the Deputy.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u145	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I also thank you for the notification you made earlier that my amendment had fallen out of the amendment review; otherwise, I do not know why this has happened. I hope that this is why this proposal will be supported. Because years ago, when we had decided on this, I had sufficiently argued in favour of this matter, so I will not repeat it today. Of course, I admire and wonder at the same time at people who know so accurately all the events throughout Slovenia and know in advance what is good for people and what is bad for them, and I would almost like to see that it is decided what is good for people and what is bad for people, at some possibly party meetings and they would tell them, it is good for you, it is not, but they would not give them the opportunity to do so. I do not hope to say this, so I insist that the local population, which just wants to decide on development, should decide, but not that some party secretaries and officials tell them what is good for them and what is bad for them. Therefore, dear colleagues and colleagues, I ask you to support at least my amendment, if not others, for the River of Savinja. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u146	Thank you. Comrade Ambassador, I can assure you that the withdrawal of your amendment had no deeper political significance. There's just been a technical error, and I believe you'll take it upon yourself. Anyone else want to discuss the first chapter and the above-mentioned amendments? I understand your silence as not, so we are moving on to the debate on Point 2 and the amendments - I am speaking in unity - proposed by the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Who wants to discuss this amendment and only this amendment? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. I beg for peace and hearing in the hall. Comrade Jerovšek, would you allow me, please? Thank you. I am going through and opening a debate in conjunction with the proposal for a new point, where we have one amendment proposed by Ambassador Joseph Horvat. Can I help you? Comrade Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u147	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, honourable Members and Members. True, at this moment the eyes of many citizens and citizens are particularly opposed to us, Members and Members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. So also the locals of Bogojina, Ivanec, Bukovnice and Filovec, who really want and strive to live in their own municipality of Bogojina until the beginning of the reconstruction of local self-government in Slovenia. You all know Bogojina through Plečnik's sacral pearl, the masterpiece of the Philosopher's potter knows the whole world. He's coming today, the only one on the left bank of Mure [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u148	The tenth warning today, I sincerely ask you, let us all listen to the speaker who has the word. Let's be so respectful, in the end it's the content that he wants to share with us and wants to convince us of his right, listen to him, please again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u149	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Today comes, the only one on the left bank of Moore unfulfilled, the congregation of Bogojina for the fourth time in the National Assembly. The people there have an indestructible hope. Their wish was clearly expressed for the first time in the 1994 referendum, attended by as many as two thirds of the electoral beneficiaries and decided by about 80% [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u150	Comrade Horvath, if you'll excuse me, one last warning, then I'll stop the session. Comrade Ambassador, it's for you, for all those who don't respect my request before, I look at you for five minutes, you don't do anything else than you say when you don't have a word. You have heard my warning, and I will interrupt the meeting unless you listen to the speaker who has the word, and at this moment, the only word is Ambassador Horvat Joseph. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u151	Thank you again, Mr President. Their wish was clearly expressed for the first time in the 1994 referendum, which was attended by as many as two thirds of the electorate, and about 80% of them decided for the Bogojin Congregation to the extent of the four settlements mentioned earlier. Unfortunately, the formation of the congregation of Bogojina did not occur because the then national assembly simply listened to the referendum expressed people’s will and established some congregations beyond the expressed will of the people. Later, two more attempts followed. Unfortunately, there was never enough political will. During that time, many congregations were formed, but Godojina did not succeed, even though she then fulfilled the legal requirements, even more so than some who succeeded. I am asked what would happen to the state of Slovenia if, after a successful referendum and a declaration of independence, the international community did not recognise it. That's not how you do things in a civilized world. Therefore, on 30 September this year, I submitted a proposal to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to initiate proceedings for the establishment of the municipality of Bogojin and for the establishment of its territory, as a sign of the correction of the injustice that has occurred to these people in the past. In the event of an initiative to establish the municipality of Bogojina, we can see that in 1994 citizens' right to exercise local self-government directly under the European Charter on Local Self-Government, ratified by the Republic of Slovenia, was violated. The constitutional principle of respect for the will of people at the referendum for the Bogojina Congregation was also violated. Therefore, the affected citizens complained to the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. The complaint is based on the provisions of the then applicable law on local self-government. For the fourth time, I hope you will listen to the congregation of Bogojin and give a positive vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u152	Thank you. Member Geza Juban will be involved in the debate in connection with your amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u153	Thank you very much, Chairman. I would like to add the following to this amendment by my distinguished colleague Horvath. The municipality of Moravske toplice has 6300 inhabitants and is one of the most developed municipalities in Prekmurje. Investments are currently under way, amounting to around 8 billion, but economic investment is not an infrastructure investment. He is one of the least indebted congregations. It is true that many members of the current government, from the prime minister, the minister and so on, were in Bogojin and promised the congregation in the manner that Mr Horvat correctly presented. A few of you sitting here were there. That's the first part of the story. The initiative of the congregation of Bogojin was unusual. She provided reasons and information that were not true. On the one hand, it was said that an area where the congregation was supposed to be received nothing from the congregation of Moravian Toplice. We have in the section that they have almost everything. This means that in spite of everything that was invested in infrastructure, in school, in everything that is being invested in and per capita in the municipality, we have calculated that this part has received much more than the bitter part that is in the scattered terrain and so on. If we look at the table, the existing municipality of Moravske Toplice will no longer have 5,000 inhabitants. The newly formed municipality will have 1397 inhabitants. This means that the condition will not be met. And it will not meet the other conditions, for health care is not provided as required by the law that you have adopted those who have walked in God’s way and have promised the congregation. You have accepted here the criteria, four, five conditions and 2,000 inhabitants, which they do not have. And now it will be up to you, above all, to decide whether you will respect the legal criteria, as my colleague Rupar said, not to repeat what he has explained to you, or not to respect the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u154	Thank you. Is there anyone else who would like to discuss the proposal for a new item? No, no, no. Then I conclude the debate. However, I am opening a debate on a new point 3a and an amendment by the motioner Mojce Kucler Dolinar. Who wants a word? Here you go, Mr. Kucler.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Given the short period of time, only for a little while. This year, the National Community of Dobrava decided for the first time to establish its municipality from the existing municipality of Dobrava - Polhov Gradec, where two initiatives remain, namely the new municipality of Polhov Gradec and the new Šentjošt. Indeed, they themselves have found that they are united places, which each have their own lives, and above all justify their initiative for geographical and economic reasons. Above all, it is a suburban area which has different challenges than the other two areas, namely Polhov Gradec and Šentjošt. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u156	Anybody else want to discuss this? [[No, no, ……]] Then I conclude the debate. We are moving on to a discussion on the link with the proposal for a new point 4.a. Under this item, we have three proposed amendments, the first proposed by Ambassador Mojce Kucler Dolinar, and the second and third proposed by Ambassador Anton Kokalja. Who wants to discuss it? Mr. Kokalj, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u157	I will support the amendment because, as a Member, I have this constitutional right and also the authority of the people. The congregation’s proposal makes sense. The volume of 33 settlements, the congregation already existed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u158	Thank you. We continue the debate. Mrs. Kucler, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u159	Thank you very much. I have already explained the amendment under point 1 concerning Rakek. With regard to the initiative for the new municipality of Polhov Gradec, we base this proposal, in the sense of the applicants, on the basis of demographic, historical, geographical reasons. It's a round whole. The city has a primary school, kindergarten, health care and other legal conditions, and they estimate that the incomes of the future congregation would, of course, be sufficient from the settlements, as contained in my initiative and the amendment I have tabled, for the functioning of the future congregation within its jurisdiction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u160	Thank you. Member Paula Gantar has applied for the debate, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u161	Thank you. Very briefly. This third amendment should either be withdrawn because it is technically flawed or wrong or I call on you to vote against it. The proposer does not know that he existed in this municipality, the present Gorenje vas - Poljane, the place of Hotovlje and the place of Hotavlje. And they put the place of Hotavlje in a new congregation. This is the place that's here, Hotavlje. But there's a hotel here in Poljana. And that mistake is perfect nonsense, and that's why it's not a press error. Because this place exists. Therefore, I propose that the amendment withdraws or declares technically invalid or that, if not otherwise, all of you vote against it because you will cause ridicule and disgust in the Polish Valley. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u162	Thanks for the heads-up. Member Kokalj has entered the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u163	I'd like to replicate. I thank Mr Gantar for warning me earlier on about this mistake, which has apparently been ploying over time. It's written right on the initiative itself. And this case will also be redacted. I have also tabled a change in time so that it will be made as necessary. Thank you very much, Mr. Gantar, for this warning.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u164	Thank you. Comrade Gantar, I give you a debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u165	Replacing a theft can't be an editorial repair. Desires are a place. That's not a mistake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u166	My colleague Kokalj said that in his basic text, if I understood you correctly, the place was correctly written.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u167	Thus, the place was properly written in the initiative, I do not know where this mistake has crept in and I immediately warned her about it and it was ensured by the services that the editorial amendment would be corrected.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u168	I ask you to make another written correction before the vote, so that there is no misunderstanding in connection with the vote. And I thank my colleague Paul Gantar for his warning. Anyone else would like to discuss the three amendments in connection with the proposal for a new point 4a? [[Nobody.]] Then I conclude the debate. We turn to the proposal to point 5 and to the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Anybody want to talk? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. We turn to the proposal to point 5 and the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Anybody want to talk? Nobody. I'm closing the debate. In the debate I am putting forward point 7 and the proposal for a new, fifth paragraph, of the drafter of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia. Anybody want to talk? Nobody. I'm closing the debate. In the context of the amendment to paragraphs 7 and 8, I am opening the debate on the amendment proposed by the Liberal Democracy Group. Anybody want to discuss this? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. And I'm opening a debate with a new a-point, we're on page 10. Comrade Sok, to the previous point or to this? To the previous point or to this? To the last one. I'm sorry, I haven't seen you, but I've closed the debate and I can't give you my word. I'm sorry. I am opening a debate on the new 8th point and the amendment of the proposed MP Mojce Kucler Dolinar. You have the floor, Ambassador Kucler, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u169	Thank you. Since 1994, the inhabitants of Schengen have been working to establish their own congregation, their initiatives have also been presented here, and they are probably well - known to all. They showed their will at the 1994 referendum, when they voted for their municipality in their referendum area, but did not prove to be good and effective. Thus, their proposal is justified from a historical point of view; these places need to be taken into account in particular; they are geographically rounded up. In fact, they differ from the rest of the lower part of the existing congregation. The greatest interest is in the municipal area where the country which has kept them in the artistic composition has not been able in all these years to completely asphalt state roads from Ljubljana towards their places. So, honourable Members, I ask you to take a look through the window of this Chamber and give us the opportunity to determine and confirm in this area. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u170	Thank you. Someone else would like to discuss it within the time available. No, no, no. I conclude the debate on the proposed amendment. And I am opening a debate in connection with the new 11th and one amendment proposed by Ambassador Marjetka Uhan. Who wants to discuss it? My friend Žnidaršič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u171	Thank you very much. It is a desire to establish the congregation of Schentrupert, which has already been mentioned here today. In doing so, I would like to point out that it fulfils the criteria of 2 000 400 inhabitants and all other conditions, except for a health station which has not been obtained in Schentrupert for many years so that they cannot be expelled from Trebnje under the applicable law. I think that the fact that this medical care, which is provided in any case to all citizens in a healthcare home having a legal occupation of doctors, is so good that violating this condition does not constitute a major sin, given that we have more than a dozen municipalities with fewer people who have established their own time past the applicable law, so that I think it would be helpful to support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u172	Thank you. Someone else wants to discuss an open article with a debate. Nobody. I'm closing the debate. I am opening the debate on the 12th item and the draft amendments proposed by the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club. Anybody want to talk? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. I am opening a debate on the proposal for a new 12th point, the drafter of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. Who wants to discuss it? Pecan's emissary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u173	Of course, I cannot speak here about the same reasons as before, because I know very well that if you vote on this proposal, the Ankaran-Croatian municipality would have the necessary resources to self-financing, which is 400 million dollars in surplus over what is needed after calculating the appropriate spending. By not taking into account the compensation for the use of the building land that this municipality may expect, unless the mayor of the Municipality of Koper succeeds in taking away part of the area from the future territory of the municipality of Ankara by joining the city of Koper. But I wouldn't talk about it. More importantly, there is a mistake in these settlements in this congregation, namely, the place is called Premančán and not Premenčán; I do not think it was likely that this was a change due to the transcribing of individual texts.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u174	Thank you. Member Aurelio Juri has entered the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u175	Thank you, Vice President, again. Furthermore, as a result of what colleague Pecanov said and what she had pointed out, I have not yet received a reply from the minister to ensure that both acts, decrees today and decrees on the municipal council, which will meet in ten minutes, will be in line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u176	Thank you. The Minister has signed up for this. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u177	Thank you for your word. Well, I must say that I have already given this answer, and the Member was outside the Chamber. Of course I'll do it again. In the event of such a discrepancy, it is possible to resolve this with an administrative dispute, of course, there are no other options. The second part, however, is linked to purely political culture. I think that this decision, both in the urban world and elsewhere, must take account of the actual situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u178	Thank you. Here you go, Ambassador Pecanov.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u179	Very short. I thank the Minister for stressing that political culture must nevertheless be followed in such matters. Even if we are opposed to being formed from a congregation of two or to being divided into two areas, I must say honestly and frankly that if that mayor and that congregational council representing and running a congregation, whether it be Moravske Toplice or Trebnje, before deciding whether or not the new congregation will be formed, I can afford to use such a very unusual expression, gestures that I simply try to take away a future congregation from the area. I think this is immoral, and I think it absolutely does not contain any political culture. So thank the Minister for what he said.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u180	I give my word to Ambassador Paul Rupar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u181	Thank you very much. I'm glad it's my turn now. It is a double game, ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democrats, for the double game you run in the case of the Koper municipality. As far as I can tell, a handful of people who proposed the secession of Ankaran-Croatian were, in the past, even members of your clients. But it's about finance. This is the port of Koper, from which only the current mayor and the current municipal authority managed to obtain a share of the financing from the use of the city land. Here are the appetites of individuals who want to simply take this away from Koper. All the honor of Popovic, all the honor that he had in the hope of daring and overlooking this, at least after my assessment of the gross immoral move, a serious immoral move to take the city’s Koper financial share out of the port of Koper. If this work is going to change the city’s world today by staying in the city congregation of Koper, then you, who have been the major advocates of the single city congregation of Koper, will be happy that the remaining congregation of Koper will have enough money for its development and for its survival. But if your purpose is double, which it is, I read this today from an article written by Aurelio Juri, but it will immediately appear if the referendum is voted, because they have already condemned in advance that this part is displeased with the current authorities and current mayors only because it is not a communist, just because and for nothing else. You play a double game and you play a very immoral policy and you play with the Municipality of Koper as a whole.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u182	I give my word to Ambassador Aurelius Yuri, it was earlier.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u183	My friend Rupar is poorly informed and speaks nonsense. He himself knows that on the local self-government committee I myself have proposed that the committee have taken over the amendment by which we have excluded from the proposal for a decision on the Koper municipality. That's one fact. However, the second fact is that when the game starts, it has to be brought to an end by the same rules and not to change the rules during the game, so I say and I have not accused anyone or whatever else, it is important that the acts of the municipal council and the national assembly are harmonised. The Minister himself points out that this will be possible to challenge after an administrative dispute, the question follows who should initiate the administrative dispute, whether the state or the local community or the municipality of Koper are affected. Of course, he's talking about us leading the story very conflictedly, instead of looking for compatibility, an agreement. Even when it comes to changing the boundaries of the areas, of course this must be done in agreement with the affected areas. Whoever's doing something quickly without looking for social consensus is doing something unfair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u184	Thank you. Member Paula Rupar applied to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u185	Only so, from the tapegram and from the witnesses who were on the committee, it is clear that he was the proposer of the withdrawal of the referendum by Pavel Rupar and not Aurelio Juri. Mr. Yuri, hand to heart, you took that right behind me. Right behind me. Although you haven't denied anything in the media, which seems very unfair to me, it's only because you have the feeling that you can master the scene and because of course you have to lie to these voters and those people to blow your soul over the position party, but rather the opposition, in order for Koper to "break up" so that we can have it, I don't know how many parts. We who have always been in favour, but we are the proponents. That wasn't true. And something else about these acts, every municipal council, every city council, has the right at any meeting and at any time to change the internal boundaries of individual local communities, if that is the case in the municipal world. Perhaps one day before the decision to call for a referendum. By law, in fact, there is no law on the local community at all and there are some artificial works with us and there are lari-fari, if you want, you can by municipal law, based on municipal acts and on the majority in the municipal or municipal world vote any border, whenever, in any account, without therefore having to ask specifically, for example, which one you are harming, because in this case the most affected is Koper as a whole. Who would we ask now in Ankara? No one. Because Ankaran remains intact. It goes, as far as I know, to join the port of Koper to the municipality of Koper, which now belongs along the borders of Ankara, and there is no one to ask, because unfortunately there is no resident. At least I don't know if there's a man living in the port of Koper around here.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u186	Thank you. Comrade Yuri, I will report you to the debate, but you have a fellow Member, Mrs Pečanova. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u187	I would only say this here that the very harsh expressions and words we hear in this National Assembly and also at the meetings of the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development are by no means worthy of the political culture referred to earlier by the Minister. And that's what I understand, under the words of political culture. However, I will respond to what Mr Rupar said earlier. So, Social Democrats and previously the United List of Social Democrats, we certainly don't play a double game. The Lord is among the initiators, but, as far as I know, Mr Jelinčič has signed the initiative. There was not one of the people of Ankara who proposed the establishment of the municipality of Ankaran-Croatia. However, which you mentioned, if you would say the name, you might say that this is not what I think it is already two or more mandates or a second term as a member of the Slovenian National Party, not the United List of Social Democrats or today's Social Democrats. So I don't see any reason to talk about this being a double game. I didn't want to talk about the reason why the congregation of Ankaran was. I've just told you how moral it is to let this amendment go through, I'll vote against it, I'll vote against it personally, as well as the other colleagues in our parliamentary group, but if it will be voted out, which depends on you, then people should be allowed to decide on the establishment of a congregation like today, not like it will be in fifteen minutes or an hour when someone in Cyprus invents that they simply pick up a part of the territory - even the inhabitants are something in that area, because it's not just the port area of Koper, but the Boniface, the Ankaran Boniface, so-called. And when we're talking about places that we don't know directly, I think we need a little caution.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u188	Thank you very much. Mr Aurelio Juri has also been reported.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u189	Once again, Comrade Rupar, the only one who tabled an amendment to the decree in writing, as well as the rules of procedure, was me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u190	Thank you very much. Mr. Milan Petek has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u191	Thank you, Vice President. I myself took part in this meeting, which is currently under dialogue, and in the name of the truth, it must be said that Mr Rupar mentioned Ankaran in his performance, but he made a written submission, of course, to Mr Juri. That is why one and the other truth is true, although I think that, formally speaking, Mr Juri is the one who has tabled the amendment. But there's something else I'd like to say. So the debate and the way Mr Rupar is discussing is a way of working that is unworthy of the President. It communicates with us in such a way that it irritates, arouses passions, and this has shown before us all today, and this is a picture of the leader or chairman of the Local Self-Government Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u192	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Rupar.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u193	Well, I simply oppose such disqualifications, especially Mr Petk. If anyone tells you the truth, what has happened many times before, is marked as a thief, a thief, an impatience, an impatience, a misbehaviour, is all - if anyone tells you the truth. It's worse to tell you the truth! Upstairs! Because get on it, if necessary, even physically, even with physical liquidations. Therefore, Mr. Friday, as far as this is concerned, you have done this in all your history, because, what else have you been as liquidators, give no peace! [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u194	Mr. Rupar, let's limit ourselves, please, to the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u195	No, I'm sorry! In any case, I request an apology. I didn't hurt anyone. I wasn't into anyone. Mrs. Potter, we've already made a deal. But to everyone else, please, the dignity of others! And I also ask patience to others.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u196	I have great respect for those who think differently, but I would like to ask you as chairman to calm down and not insult each other. Please be aware that we are sitting in the Slovenian Parliament. Thank you very much. [[Back-up advertising.]] Excuse me? Procedural question, Mrs Mag. Spending.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u197	Proposal, Mr. Vice President. There have been many insults in this national assembly. And I didn't talk to anyone about any of these insults. It was agreed, however, that the meetings of the National Assembly would be chaired so that they would not be offensive to Members and Members. A member of the SDS has just declared a political option to which I belong to be liquidators. This is an insult which is insufferable and unproven and unproven and I demand that the Member apologize.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u198	Thank you very much, ma'am. Spending. Please calm down. I would not like to continue the meeting in such an atmosphere, so please again, I have said my part and warned you that you are sitting in the Slovenian Parliament. And I want the debate to go on as it must, without offense, even though we are otherwise thinking, please, no offense and with dignity. Thank you very much, and I hope you will listen to me as President at least for the rest of this session. We continue to discuss the last two amendments. In your review, this is on page 13 of the second section and on the fifth section. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] In doing so, we have concluded our debate on the review of the amendments to the proposal for a resolution on the call for a referendum and setting up referendum areas for the establishment of municipalities and for the establishment or modification of their areas. Since it has already been said at the beginning of this point that we will vote on the amendments in the opposite, immediately after the discussion and no later than 16 p.m. and since the 16th hour has already passed, or I will tell you to proceed immediately with the vote. We will vote on each individual amendment. When deciding on each individual amendment, you may explain your vote as a parliamentary group or as an individual. Here you go, Mrs. Zalokareva.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u199	Mr. Vice President, I would like to ask you procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u200	Procedural question.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u201	Not a question, but a suggestion. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, I request a 15-minute recess before the start of the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u202	I agree. I'm giving you 15 minutes off. We continue the meeting at 4:20 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u203	We are moving on to the decision-making on the amendments, which is the first item of the agenda. Before making this decision, I would like to remind you that every opportunity to explain its voice or on behalf of it - I would like to ask you to calm down - either on behalf of the parliamentary group or on behalf of myself, but I would ask you to concentrate on the amendment and talk about the amendment. I would not like to see another debate or debate come to light. We are moving on to the review or decision-making of the amendments. For the new 1.a point we have the first, second, third, fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh, eighth amendment as well as the additional amendment to point 5. We move on to point 1 and decide on the amendment under number 1. Anybody want to explain their voice? Procedural question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u204	It's not really for you. It's for the SNS. Did you correct the name of the village of Premáncjan, as it is right? Because I think otherwise, if you succeed in voting this amendment, it will be the wrong text. I'll vote against it anyway, but [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u205	Mrs Pečanova, if you would like to repeat the place and the correct entry of the place once again.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u206	It's premeditated, but it should be premeditated.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u207	That's what you're saying. He's right. He's too manly. From now on, we are talking about Premančán, so it will also be recorded on the magnetogram and we will also decide on Premančan. I ask again, does anyone want to explain their voice? Mr. Prevc. On behalf of the delegation?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u208	Yeah, that's right. Thank you so much for saying that. We have tabled this amendment in the Slovenian People's Party and will also support it. This is said to be the establishment of a separate congregation of Gore, to secede from the present congregation of Bled. This proposal came out of the government proposal, mainly because they do not have a healthcare home in Gorja, but all those who know this area know that Bled alone is very well cared for, we know that a healthcare home, a health institution in Bled was also built together by the people of Gorje, and we also know that from Gori 10 minutes to Bled, so that health care for the people of this municipality, who are supposed to be newly established, is in fact very well cared for. And there's one more thing. It seems to me that this proposal is very logical, because we know that Goreje is actually a rural settlement, while Bled himself is an extremely tourist village and I actually think the establishment of a new municipality is perfectly logical, so the Members of the Slovenian People's Party will support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u209	Thank you very much. We move on to the decision to the amendment under point 1. We're voting. The vote is under way. The vote was 67 Members and Members, 22 votes to 37. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 37.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving to the amendment under point 2. Mrs. Kucleva, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u210	Thank you very much. The establishment of the municipality of Rakek from the existing municipality of Cerknica is referred to under point 2. I myself, as a member of the New Slovenia - the Christian People's Party, was the proponent of the procedure for setting up, at the initiative of the Rikek Initiative Committee and the first signed Majdo Zupan, I also tabled an amendment, which we will now decide on, which has somehow fallen out of the government's opinion on the grounds that the conditions for the provision of health care are not met, but I think as well as the initiators who further justified their proposal that health care is provided and thus the provision of health care for citizens, in accordance with Article 13. The medical home is a few miles from the center where the new congregation would be established, so that I myself will support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u211	Thank you. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. The vote is under way. There were 72 votes in favour, 23 against 42. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're moving to the amendment under point 3. Mr. Bajc, please, on behalf of the delegation?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u212	Yeah.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u213	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u214	Mr Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I myself have tabled a proposal for the establishment of the municipality of Lower Idrija, on the proposal of five local communities to form the future municipality of Idrija and to take account of all the materials we have delivered to them, the Committee itself would find that the area proposed for the municipality of Lower Idrija meets the conditions. All that the law provides for, from the number of residents to the health center. In the first phase, when we transmitted the material along with the proposal to establish the Idrija congregation, there was no such material. However, we subsequently delivered material that in the area of the future municipality of Lower Idrija is a health home, which is not in service, because a doctor covering this area on the basis of a concession granted by the municipality of Idrija is doing so in a health home in the municipality of Idrija. And if we set up the municipality of Lower Idrija, it will also be possible for her to have a health care home with a doctor who was also selected by the inhabitants from the area of Lower Idrija and provides this service within the healthcare home in Idrija. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u215	We're voting. 71 Members and Members, 27 votes to 39. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 39.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We move to the amendment under point 4. Mr Kramberger, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u216	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! I have tabled a proposal for a referendum area or for the municipality of Sveti Jurij in Slovenski Gorica at the initiative of the Council of the Local Community and also of the local community of Sveti Jurij in Slovenski Gorica. The only condition that this area does not meet is a healthcare home. I think it's only right that we confirm this area, and I'm asking you for your support.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u217	We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. 71 Members and Members, 22 votes to 42. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it that the amendment under point 4 has not been accepted. We are moving to the amendment under point 5. You have an additional amendment to the amendment under point 5 of Mr Mirk Zammernik. In doing so, I inform you, if the first amendment is adopted, the second amendment will be irrelevant. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u218	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. So we put this amendment under point 5, on page 3. I have pointed out some facts twice, or at least twice, in explaining or discussing individual amendments. The first fact is why this request was made for the establishment of a new congregation, from the present congregation of Mozire, the congregation of Rečica ob Savinja. The first fact is that, years ago, one of the settlements in this local community was exempted from the present Mozire Congregation and transferred to the Nazarje Congregation at the request of a fellow Member sitting opposite. So this is one of the reasons why this proposal has come up. The second is that we believe, of course, that, as with everyone else, we have not been heard that the problem of health and health care is, that in the new situation, of course, it is different, and we believe that this condition is not one that is necessary and necessary and so on, and that all the inhabitants of the River or most of the people of the River do not benefit from the health care home in Mozir, but also benefit from the health care home in Nazareth. Given that, of course, these three major places in the lower part of the Upper Savinja Valley are very close together. By calling on my colleagues and colleagues to support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u219	Thank you very much. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There were 72 votes in favour and 32 against 35. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 35.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are also deciding, as I have said, on an additional amendment to point 5, this is about the amendment of Ambassador Zammernik. The amendment was not accepted. Mr. Tank, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u220	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr President, you have said earlier that two amendments have been tabled under this item and since the first of the same contents has not been adopted, the second is probably irrelevant.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u221	Once again, because it has not been adopted, we must also vote on the second amendment of the Ambassador. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. 71 Members and Members voted for 32 votes to 30. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 30.]] I take it that Parliamentary Ambassador Mirk Zammernik's amendment has been adopted. We're moving to point six, to point six. Yes, Mrs. Uhanova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u222	Thank you so much for saying that. I have tabled a proposal for the new congregation of Šentrupert in the National Assembly, and both of us have already explained the reasons why they want a new congregation. It's a third attempt. I must say that I am sorry that the MP from the sea has stepped into this amendment and that she is so well aware of the situation in Shentrupert and Trebnje. I don't think she knows them and I'm just gonna see what people really want at the referendum.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u223	Thank you very much. Master Žnidaršič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u224	Thank you very much to the president, colleagues and colleagues. This amendment speaks of the establishment of the congregation of Šentrupert, which belongs to our constituency, and if I were to now vote against the number of votes that I have received there, I am not thinking about who voted for me, but I am thinking that I am a representative of all the people. And if people are there to have their own congregation, then I am obliged to support it. As far as I'm aware, this desire is extremely strong and in two years they will have a medical station there in any case, so I will support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u225	Thank you. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 28 votes against 37. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 37.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We move to the amendment to point 7. Mr. Pukšič, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u226	Colleagues and colleagues! The proposal to establish the municipality of Leskovec is the third time on these parliamentary benches. The Municipality of Leskovec is one of the municipalities of Halo and has all the conditions met under these criteria, including the healthcare home. But it is true that he has a few fewer inhabitants than is now recorded in this law. If we have given some in the previous term the opportunity to make decisions and live in their own congregation.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u227	Mr. Puksich, a moment. Excuse me. Could we interrupt parallel meetings in this House? Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Puksich.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u228	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'll be brief. Colleagues and colleagues, I ask that in the third, however, God be pleased with the Halo Congregation of Leskovec. I beg in their name for this voice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u229	We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 37. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 37.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We're moving to the amendment to point eight. Mr. Prevc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u230	Thank you so much for saying that.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u231	On behalf of the delegation?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u232	On behalf of the parliamentary group for the newly formed congregation, this is the municipality of Log-Dragomer, which is to secede from the municipality of Vrhnika. I myself have proposed this on the basis of the great desire of the citizens of Log and Dragomer, that is to say these two local communities and on the basis of 1,500 signatures. This is actually more than half of all electoral beneficiaries from this area. The fact is that they meet the conditions, certainly this area meets the conditions for the establishment of a new congregation. This is said to have primary school, child care, and health care. He doesn't have a healthcare home, but there's a health home in Vrhnika. Together they built this health care house and even near Vrhnika, 10 km away, so that primary health care is fully provided, and respected, there is no violation of the law. I think we made it clear earlier in general that the Health Care Act is the one that says that more congregations can build a health home together. And as it was said, first the Health Care Act was only then the Law on Local Self-Government. And perhaps Mrs Pecan's reply, which, interestingly, has already calculated the appropriate consumption of the newly formed Log-Dragomer municipality and awarded it a very high financial compensation. By the way, the laborate is very accurate. There would be no financial compensation for this congregation, and this congregation would be exclusively financed. By avoiding such deception as it was. In fact, if, by the previous vote, we have given a green light to a municipality that does not have a healthcare home, it is only right that we have given a green light, yet let us give a green light new to the municipality of Log-Dragomer, where there is a great, great desire of the people to make this wish come true to them. I think they deserve their own congregation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u233	Thank you very much. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. 73 Members and Members voted, 27 to 40. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 40.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We're moving to the amendment to point two. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There were 66 votes in favour and 36 in favour against 23. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are voting on the amendment for the new second point. Yes, Mr. Joseph Horvat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u234	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, Members of Parliament, Honourable Minister with Fellow Members! Godojina is the only unfulfilled congregation on the left bank of the Mura River. This time Godojina comes to the National Assembly for the fourth time. I have taken the initiative to establish the congregation of Bogojin as a sign of the correction of injustices. Those Members and Members of Parliament who have already had a much longer legate than I have, you certainly know the congregation or the story of the congregation of Godojin well. Even as such, you all know the Goddess by Plečnik's sacral pearl, the Philosophers, as I said today, know the whole world. Godojina is not my constituency, it is not, believe me, no egoism, no politics, it is to listen to the real wishes of these citizens who want the congregation. Godojina would come from the congregation of Moravske Toplice, which has a truly exponential development, and this development will not suffer if Bogoyina becomes a single congregation. I must also say that the congregation council of the congregation of Moravske Toplice opened the door to the congregation of Bogojin, which is certain to say something. I will vote in favour of this amendment and I invite you to follow me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u235	Thank you very much. Anyone else, please? Here you go, Mr. Juban.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u236	Thank you very much. I believe that I have given sufficient illustration of the case of Bogojina, where the legal framework makes it impossible and Godojina does not meet the conditions, nor the exceptions or the five conditions that it must be, and the 1,300 inhabitants and the rest of the congregation will not have 5,000 inhabitants. However, it is up to you, especially those who have adopted a legal framework, to decide what will happen to God. True, the municipal council has a positive opinion. On this congregation council, where I am a member, I have abstained, and this is how I will do now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u237	Thank you, Mr. Juban. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There were 73 votes in favour, for 15, against 48. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a new 3a point, namely the first and only amendment. Mrs. Kucleva, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u238	Thank you very much. I will vote in favour of this amendment, and I propose that you also do so to fellow Members and Members of Parliament, in particular because of the initiative of the proponents who wish to have a new Dobrova municipality. Only if this amendment and the next two amendments, which are for the congregation of Polhov Gradec and the congregation of Shentjosht, are supported, will the will of the people be respected. If I focus on a concrete amendment. I will vote in favour because the area meets the specific conditions required and because this is a specific area with regard to geographical and economic reasons for the remaining places. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u239	Thank you. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There were 70 votes in favour and 17 in favour against 44. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 44.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We move to the amendment for a new 4.a point, first under point 1. Here you go, Mrs. Kucleva.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u240	Thank you very much. I would like once again to invite my fellow Members and fellow Members, in this vote, which will actually be repeated, in relation to the formation of the Rakek municipality, which actually meets the legal conditions, except for the one we have been and have listened to one of the just confirmations of the referendum area that we are voting for this proposal and for this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u241	Thank you. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 42. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 42.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We're moving to the second amendment for a new 4a point. Here you go, Mrs. Kucler.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u242	Thank you. It is an initiative to establish a referendum area for Polhov Gradec, which would be excluded from the existing municipality of Dobrova-Polhov Gradec. It is an area that meets the conditions and is based on demographic, historical and geographical aspects. In view of the remaining areas, the newly voted Dobrova area, where it is on the one hand a suburban area, the next amendment, the Schengen area, is a hilly area, it is a specific area. These areas have the conditions laid down by the law in Article 13a and I will therefore vote in favour of this amendment myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u243	We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 17 votes against 49. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 49.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We move to the third amendment under point 3. In doing so, I would like to remind you that a correction was made, an official correction of the name of the place, wrote Hotavlje, it is correct, Hotovlja. That was done. Here you go, Mr. Bones.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u244	Thank you very much. Thank you very much for alerting me to this correction. I myself belong to a political party which is further developing democracy in Slovenia and consistent regional development as a basic objective, so I will support this amendment. Given that I believe that, through the establishment of new communities or through local self-government, these two processes can only be successfully developed, it is said from the bottom up, it seems normal for me to support such initiatives. However, I must say that the government has expressed a negative view of this initiative that the current old municipality from which this area is to be excluded is made up of two local communities, which means that this matter is actually very well founded if we look at the customerly unburdened. Of course, I also expect all parties or representatives of parties who have a democratic name to listen to and adhere to the principle applied to the same law for the same initiatives four years ago when they were not yet in the government, regardless of the fact that they are now in the government. I think that the basic political principles of a party and the actions of Members are merely a fact that you are in the government or are not in the government, cannot be replaced. That is why I expect my colleagues to be able to take such principles into account when voting for this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u245	We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There were 74 votes in favour of 14 and 55. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 55.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're moving to the amendment to point five. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There were 75 votes in favour of the MEPs, 46 against 24. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 24.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're moving to the amendment to point seven. Here you go, Mr. Trophynik.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u246	Thank you so much for saying that. The locals of Graba do not want to be in the proposed new municipality of Centre ob Drava, so they have submitted with signatures a supported request to sign a referendum in this area or join the local community of Ormož and thus remain in the local, remnant of the old municipality. The municipal council has adopted this initiative and the majority referendum will be held on the same day as the state council, if I say so. This amendment would allow the results to be separately determined or in this referendum area separately, but would otherwise not affect any other decision. It is the same with the amendments that I do not report to the 7th and 8th paragraphs following this amendment. That is why, of course, I will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u247	Mr. Sok, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u248	Thank you for your word. So, honourable fellow Members, I propose that you vote against the amendment. The point is that one village Grabe, or five villagers in this village, does not agree that Grabe would also be in the new congregation of the Centre near Drava. As much as the will of most villagers in this village is such, and I believe that it is not, since five people cannot be merciless for the whole of you, then, as fellow Member Trofenik said, the municipality has the full possibility, in accordance with the law on local self-government, in article 18, to call a referendum on you for this. At the same time, of course, there is also a referendum in that local community where this one should join you. At the moment we do not have this proposal on the table, we have only that Grabe should not be included in the referendum area. I ask that the National Assembly not vote against this, but the local community, in accordance with the law at its disposal, find the majority's will, if the majority is really in favour, then the cost of this referendum is likely to be borne by the home congregation itself, not by the state or by the national assembly. At the second amendment, I'll be in touch. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u249	We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. 75 Members and Members voted for 30 to 40. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 40.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We're moving on to the amendment to 7th and 8th. Mr. Trofenik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u250	Thank you for your word. I repeat that this is the second settlement in the proposed municipality of the Centre ob Drava, which does not want to be in the new municipality, this is the third time since 1995, so there is a sufficient number of signatures collected, more than 20% of 493 voters in the last elections and, of course, such fraud as the previously misused institute of explanations of vote, and I must also abuse and draw attention to the lie that was previously told. And, of course, the referendums will be announced and why they would not allow people to see the will here in the same way that the referendum area is a settlement that does not want to be in the new congregation, because the second box will be the same day on the polls, which they will express that they want to be in the old congregation and join the local community of Ormož. I am protesting the abuse of the Rules of Procedure, as was the case in the previous vote. The referendums are supported by signatures, in accordance with the law and the statute, and will take place on the same day. However, you prevented the previous vote from identifying the will of the settlement in particular. That is why, of course, I will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u251	Thank you. Mr. Sok, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u252	Thank you very much. It is the same or similar amendment that we have already voted on, that is, no signatures have been seen by the National Assembly, and in fact it is an abuse only on the other hand, by Mr Trophynik, by the fact that there is such an abuse in this amendment that Obrež belongs to the local community of the Centre, which is to become, if the will of the people in the referendum is to be such, the new municipality of the Centre, while the Upper Klutarovci belong to the municipality of Sveta Tomaž, which is to become, if the will of the people of the peoples is to be such, the new congregation of Sveti Tomaž. If so, we should vote on these two matters separately, not the same. This, of course, the proposer also knows, but he is, I would say, used to parliamentaryism and adept at such moves and has combined this amendment into one. Of course, I ask you to vote against, it is also a couple of individuals, a couple of individual families, who see another interest, have an option in the law on local self-government, and the congregation can determine this without interfering with this matter by the State Assembly. Once again, I ask you to vote against this amendment and I thank you in advance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u253	Mr. Anderlich, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u254	I've been talking this morning about not knowing what kind of work I'm really involved in, but now it turns out that it's really meddling, and it's not trading, really. You have previously voted that in one case, the results shall be determined separately by law according to all the positive rules. Not in the transitional vote, we have a case here again. For God's sake, if you rely so much on the right of people to have their own congregation, and if there is in the same law, where we are supposed to identify or create the conditions for the establishment of a congregation, the possibility of finding a separate outcome, why don't you let that happen, what is this magic of your doing here? Because later on in the decision, I will discuss or explain the voice of another case, which had happened before, exactly the same, but with the outcome on these lists completely the opposite, one is yes, the other is not. I have no problem with this, I will vote in favour, because I believe that at least what it is, it is right to call a referendum and to find out what those people in that area think and where, after that result, this result should be included, whether in plus or in minus, no matter how many people here want to ask or convince people just because we are privileged to sit here and we have this opportunity to beg or to vote as it is. I will vote in favour because I believe that the law is the right thing to do.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u255	Thank you. Mrs. Pecanova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u256	Thank you very much. I will vote for this amendment. By apologizing to the people of the Wall Bridge, because I pushed against it by mistake before, because I mean something. All those who oppose the fact that, or oppose the fact that parts of individual referendum areas could be counted separately, you point out that you are afraid that in fact they do not want to be in the new congregation. Very logical. If you do not want these people to be specifically treated, to count their votes in particular, and to find out that they do not want to be included in the new congregation, it means that you are afraid that what you are really saying is that this is the 5 families and the 3'mandelians' and what I know is that it does not hold that you really know that most people are against being involved in the new congregation and that you do not want the referendum area to be divided and that these people can clearly express their will not to be included in the new congregation, but that they want to remain in the old congregation. Well, I have to say, that indicates that it's actually a double morality. It's actually a double morality. And for this reason, I think it would be right and fair, allow them to do so, because if they are in favor of being in the new congregation, they will vote for it anyway, they will not oppose it! Well!
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u257	Thank you very much. I would like to remind you that we now have an explanation of the vote, an explanation of the vote of the Group or on our behalf. I therefore remind you that you are not discussing how others will vote. Discuss how you will vote those who ask for a word and an explanation of vote. Mr. Grimes, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u258	Thank you. A little while ago, the LDS gentleman said it was a matter of meddling. It may have been something on their part today, but in this case it is only a legitimate and legal confrontation of arguments. And it is simply that Mr Sok was significantly more convincing than he was. And I will vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u259	Thank you very much. I'd warn you again because it seems I've been too loud or too vague. But I was clear, so please stick to what I said. Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u260	In my own name, I would like to say that I will vote against it with determination. But I have to explain that this is not the same case. Župelevec is part of the local community of Kapel and was proposed to join the municipality of Bizeli. So it stays, if they're native to the local Kapel community. In this case, it is Obrež, which is part of the local community of the Centre, which has five villages and part of the local community of Sveti Tomaž. And they did not tell us where they would then join, if it were to be determined that, on the basis of the discomfort, some people did not want to be in the new congregation. I will therefore vote against it. And once again, the congregation has the whole mechanism that, as my fellow Member has said, it can launch a referendum and determine for itself whether these two villages want to be in these congregations or not, and, of course, also in those local communities, there can be a referendum to join at the same time. And that's the essential difference. Therefore, of course, colleague Anderlich, it is not a matter of meddling, but of comparing apples and pears. I ask you to vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u261	Thank you very much. You've explained your voice. It's probably a replica, Mr. Anderlich? No, no replicas, sorry!
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u262	It's procedural. In my best faith, I believed that the explanation was voice. [[...]] [[Back-up advertising.]] Yeah, of course I have faith in infidelity if you want. Since this is an explanation of vote, it is my right to explain my voice and others. However, it is not possible to be politicized on these grounds. And I'm just saying I'm voting for something because I think it's the same. Of course, I think it's the same. And it also applies to others. So I ask you to consider this further, or I myself will, I don't know, use all of these abuses, even though I'm not comfortable with it.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u263	Thank you so much for explaining your voice. I hope I've made myself clear and you'll stick to it. Mr. Stab, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u264	Thank you very much. I will vote against it because I do not imagine that, in the case of a referendum on Slovenia alone, one city, or one street, such as Izola or 1 May Street, could have the right to have its own referendum, its own vote and decide otherwise than the whole country. I can't imagine a case like this. I think that's a good assignment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u265	Thank you very much. We were discussing an amendment to the Obrez settlement. We are moving to a decision or a vote. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 36. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 36.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We're moving to an amendment with a new 8a point. Mrs. Kucler, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u266	Thank you. This is the last amendment I've ever tabled. Regardless of the previous vote, I ask for support in this regard, support for the initiators who decided in 1994 to vote and have their own municipality within the referendum area. It's the fourth time I've had my initiative. It is a specific place, both historical and geographical. I will vote for myself because the St. Georges and I think others can look at and see that we must be attracted to the support and attention of many of the communities that have been established as municipalities in these years and which contain much fewer inhabitants than in Schengen, yet they clearly improve the standard of their places in all areas of residence. That is why I will vote in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u267	Thank you. Mr. Grimes, you have procedural procedures.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u268	Mr President, I would just like to ask you to enforce the Rules of Procedure and colleagues of the United List, who, with loud laughter and ridicule, have been constantly disturbing each other in their conversation, Mrs Kucler Dolinar, please note that this is meant to be elsewhere. Because it's the first time they've broken the rules of procedure. Another time, some ethics. For the third time, the attitude towards women, which they usually have a lot to say about. And the fourth time, because that's on the street. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u269	Mr Grimms, I absolutely agree with you. But from this chair, I have a slightly better view of the entire hall. And believe me, this afternoon or this afternoon, I should have given up everything in order, so I wouldn't have decided for one. And so please, if we continue. We're voting. 72 Members and Members voted, 16 to 49. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 49.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We're moving to the amendment for a new 11th point. Mr. Mag. Gnyardsich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u270	At this point, honourable Members and Members may correct the error they have made in the amendment under number 6 and give support to this matter and then it will be as if it were. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u271	Thank you very much. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. 71 Members and Members voted 34 to 29. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 29.]] I take it the amendment was adopted. We're moving to the amendment to point 12. Mr. Schwagan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u272	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Today, I have already twice outlined the reasons why the local community of Izlaka, the initiative committee, annexed part of the municipality of Krajina and the townspeople of Šentgotard, and we have received the signatures of 90% of the voters and voters of this part of Polšina, who express their indignation at the Member, Mr Capudro, who made such a proposal and, of course, to take into account the opinion of the government, who gave an initial negative opinion on the decision of the government or on the initiative of the local community and the opinion of the Slovenian Government on local self-government and politics. With this you will support your government, of course, country women and locals, all political parties, except New Slovenia, which really collected signatures itself in Poland and wanted to get more signatures than they brought to the municipality of the country and the country. I know this thing is as bad as it gets for the coalition that you won't support my proposal. However, I ask you to consider, on behalf of democracy, those who wish to live freely under the congregation of Izlaka, not under duress, because of the interests of local, local February. Once again, I ask for your support for my amendment and for the "yes" key. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u273	Mr. Mag. Capuder, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u274	The proposal for the municipality of Izlake fulfils all the conditions laid down by law and has also been confirmed on the home committee. This is not the first attempt to establish the congregation of Izlaka. The first was in 1994, when 47% of the electorate and electorate decided that they wanted to live in their congregation. At that time 49% voted for the congregation of Zagorje, and the congregation of Zagorje became a congregation. The congregation of Izlaka did not become its own congregation. The next experiment was in 1998 when Isaacs tried to connect with the other three local communities, but at the time these local communities did not give their consent. That is why now the local community of Izlaka has decided to submit this proposal on its own and I have taken this proposal, it is not my wish, I have taken their proposal, and I agree with the applicants that one part of the village of Polšina should be included in the new congregation, mainly because the people in this village, in this village, are divided among themselves, this is what the signatures show for, signatures against, and even some who were against it have also been for and these are quite something. I am therefore convinced that the referendum is the right opportunity for the people in the referendum to decide whether they are for the new congregation or not. I therefore ask you for support on behalf of all the applicants who have proposed the establishment of a new congregation in this referendum area. Thank you very much. That is why I cannot support this decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u275	Thank you very much. Mr. Gantar, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u276	I'd like to explain my voice. I will support this amendment of the LDS Group of Members, but not because it is an amendment of the LDS Group of Members, not because it refers to the municipality of my fellow Member, but simply because if you support this amendment, you will make one of the greatest social territorial anomalies that will show all the arbitrariness of such a decision and from some single urban system created by some peoples and settlements of Zagorje, Izlake, Kisovec and so on, you will make some kind of mistake that will not work, neither territorially or spatially. That is why I really urge you to be smart enough not to do such nonsense that you will establish another congregation within the congregation of Zagorje. This is territorial, spatial and actually social nonsense. Thank you very much. So vote for these amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u277	Mrs. Shirca, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u278	I will also support this amendment for two reasons. First and foremost, this new cell, which would have formed, would have been a foreigner because an island was formed within a closed structure and secondly, because no one ever knew that the president of the country had elected a new congregation.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u279	Thank you. Mr. Gulic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u280	Dear Presidents, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! Of course, I will support this amendment because I know this situation there. The matter is tied up and what I said before, "Kinderreich." This is about games and kids. Finally, Slovenia will look like one chicken and the egg will be killed on that chicken’s eye, so that the congregation will look about. Thus, San Marino is a foreigner who will not be connected in any way, and on the other hand, I must also say that, despite the various lobbying, I have never actually heard the right arguments for this congregation in all these 11 years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u281	We're moving on to decision-making. Excuse me. Mr. Bones, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u282	I will not support this amendment for a simple reason, because if we stick so consistently, or keep the law, no matter how it is written and when it is written, and of course all the conditions are met here. I think it is a moral policy duty to allow for a referendum for an area that really meets all the legal conditions, whatever the law is. That is why I call on others to oppose this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u283	We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 37 votes against 38. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 38.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. Please, Mr. Rupar, why did you raise your hand? Thank you very much for your answer. We're moving to the amendment for a new 12a point. Mr. Jelinčič, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u284	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. It is an area that is only fully in line with all legal provisions. And if we have previously heard from a number of LDS colleagues and the United List that people should be allowed to decide at the referendum and to show their opinion and that it is legal and proper to do so, then it makes sense for us to allow these people to decide at the referendum how they want to live, what kind of congregation they want to live in. I hope that those colleagues who were so full of justice will also vote in accordance with what they have already said today. And I hope that they will not, by the opposite vote, prove that they are speaking one and they are doing another. And I also hope that no one will plead on the full moon that is today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u285	Thank you very much. Before I give you the word Mr. Jelinčič, on behalf of the parliamentary group that proposed this amendment, would I ask you - Mr. Jelinčič, are you following me? [[...]] Earlier, a correction was given to Mrs Pečanovo according to the place Premenčany, which she said was properly Premanced. Let's make this right. Do you agree with that?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u286	I agree, Mr President.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u287	Thank you very much. Mr. Battelli, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u288	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Members, I may have more than a minute. Of course I will vote against this proposal. This proposal is only one of many in a series of steps for the destabilisation of the coast. Koper and the Coast must not be left alone. This proposal is completely artistic and artful, regardless of the certain problems that exist there, regarding the relationship that the city and those places should have to have to the presence of Luke, because Luka Koper is one of the rare cases in the history of humanity where the city did not develop around Luke, but vice versa, Luke is around the city. So at first, the population was completely wiped out, 50 years ago. And now it's being harassed all the time, all the time, and you know what it feels like to me at the end, no matter what speculations happen to land, because there are no land owners. Regardless of these speculations, changes in destination and so on, it's not here and it's not a fear that those territories would get lost because they were "acquired". This is a reflection of the fact that in certain circles in Slovenia, which are very influential, which also influence the determination here, these circles are the fear of Kopra as such, because these circles know that Koper does not belong to them, culturally, historically, however, it does not belong to them. That's why all this is happening.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u289	Thank you very much. We're moving on to decision-making. Excuse me. Excuse me, Mrs. Pecanov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u290	Thank you. I will vote against this amendment, because I believe that the Municipality of Koper is certainly one of the best, I will say in rural areas one of the best-ordered municipalities in Slovenia, if not even the best-ordered municipality. It is obvious that the municipality of Koper does not care for its villages, that it does not care about Ankaran and Croatia, of course, are not real and therefore I believe that the damage to such a municipality, which has always been done so that the inhabitants of the entire area, of all 360 square kilometres, do not feel hurt or detained, would be bad. I would also like to say that, by the way, when it was plebiscite, we voted in a very large number in Slovenia for Slovenia alone, and we did not want to become any special republic, so that some would explain it, although I know that it is not commercially correct what I am doing now.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u291	Thank you very much. Mr. Yuri, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u292	Thank you. Let me explain again what I have already said in the debate that I will do as I have announced. I have always advocated the unity of the city congregation, and this colleague Jelinčič in many years, even this time I will do the same. As I suggested on the committee that this process should stop, I will also vote against the amendment tabled this time and, of course, defend the unity of the Municipality of Koper because we know, as colleague Pečanova said, that today and today it remains second in the social product per capita in Slovenia among the leading Slovenian municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u293	Thank you. Mr. Friend, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u294	Thank you very much, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues! I don't know if we're listening in this room. I, Mrs Breda Pečanova, will of course support this amendment, the duality was in your debate now and a little earlier, 20 minutes ago. This is about the billions of Ankarans who have the presence of Luke in a degraded area, and this money undoubtedly belongs to them. And it's nothing more than the non-transparent use of this money in Cyprus and, of course, half the private investment, whoever it is, and in most cases the real estate owned by the mayor. No one has the right to give, on behalf of a third party, the initiative given by Mr Aurelio. To decide on behalf of the third party. Let the people who create money belong to them decide for themselves how to spend it in the place where it belongs. I will therefore vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u295	Mr. Brenčič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u296	Thank you very much. This proposal only meets the legal requirements because there were many wise men today who agreed to it. And I'm sure we owe it to people to let go of the judgment and the decision. And I am also convinced that the municipality of Ankara-Croatia will also have much more control for the good of people without Luke Koper, will be better able to manage and offer more than the municipality of Rečica, which we have passed the rules of law, the right to establish or make decisions. That is why I will be responsible for supporting this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u297	Thank you. Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u298	We will vote in favour of our Group of Members. We also voted on the committee when this proposal was excluded from the Government's ruling and we are convinced that this is not the only proposal that meets the conditions, as my predecessor has said. That's how he interprets the law. The conditions meet several proposals, although I do not know why the Slovenian People's Party would table as many amendments as it did. We are not interested in billions, nor are we interested in the function, but we are particularly interested in giving people the opportunity to tell the consultation referendum on 29 January whether they want it or not. That is all we are about to do, and that is why we will vote decisively again in favour, just as we are on the local self-government committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u299	Mr. Gantar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u300	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I'll vote against it. I wanted to remind you today that the main problem when we talk about territorial organisation and local self-government in Slovenia is not too many municipalities that are alienated from people and that the smaller municipality does not automatically mean more local self-government, more democracy. I wanted to remind you that there is a great problem in Slovenia, that one of these cities is too weak and one of these cities is being re-broken or we are giving way to breaking. Just like we gave in the Zagreb urban agglomeration. I would like to stress in particular that the borders have fallen, that there will be no borders at all, that at the edge of the Slovenian urban system we have great strengths: Trieste, Gorica, Celovac, Gradec, that we then have Zagreb and that we are weakening the urban system on the edges and that we will have an urban system whose influential areas of foreign cities will be greatly affected by our space, because we are breaking cities on the edge and this is Ankaran and this is the destruction of the Koper municipality. Many LDS in Ankara will not look at me with friendly eyes because of what I am about to say, but we must have the whole thing in front of us, and therefore I urge you not to make this mistake because you will harm the urban system entirely and precisely with the proposal of someone who considers himself a Slovenian nationalist. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u301	Thank you very much. Mr. Bajc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u302	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. One of the colleagues said it would be right to vote by law and truth. Since we're something today [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u303	Mr. Bajc, the explanation of the voice is not controversial.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u304	Yeah, yeah. In view of the fact that we voted today, not by law, and even in a few cases not by truth, I will also vote by my own judgment this time.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u305	We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 38 votes against 28. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 28.]] I take it the amendment was adopted. We are moving on to the amendment to the second chapter, which, I must remind you, is irrelevant, because all the amendments of the drafter have not been adopted, so once again, this amendment is irrelevant. We're moving on to the last amendment to the fifth section. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. I find that there have been 60 votes in favour of Members and Members of Parliament, 41 votes against 9. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against the 9th.]] The amendment was adopted. After the final decision on the amendments, we are moving on to a full decision on the decision. I am informing you that the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development or the Legal and Legislative Service has not informed me that the decision would be inconsistent. Mr. Contic, do you have a procedural question?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u306	Yeah. Your Honor, Mr. President. On behalf of the parliamentary group, I request a 10-minute recess before the decision is taken.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u307	I'm taking a 10-minute break. We'll continue 10 before 6:00. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u308	We're going to continue with the 1st point. Before the interruption, there was a desire to explain the voice. Please, once again, who wants to explain their voice? Please, Mr. Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u309	Thank you very much. Well, I don't have the power to make such a discriminatory approach to people who are behind individual proposals who expect them to say that too. And there is no justification that we have given the green light only for two proposals that do not comply with basic, primary health care, although it is fully provided under the Health Act. But for everyone else, we said no, my dears, but you have no right to do so. I will therefore vote against the decree in a responsible manner.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u310	Thank you very much. Mrs. Zalokarev has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u311	Thank you very much. We will not support this decision in the Liberal Democratic Club of Parliament, because what is happening here today seems to us to be another farce in the form of fars going on, and we do not want to contribute in this way to the further misplaced story that is happening to us in local self-government. All that's going on in this area is one store and a bazaar. And also this coalition, which has always claimed that it can and will work differently, today has shown that it is in fact exactly the same. So we really don't want to be involved in this 1994 rock. In doing so, I stress that, in the last similar vote in the National Assembly, we did adhere to the principles and voted and supported only one congregation, which, in fact, met the conditions of Šmartno pri Litija at the time. So, the last vote, once again, was in principle in 2002. This time the farce is perfect. One amendment with the same content received support, in half an hour the same amendment with the same content does not receive support. And in such a story and such indiscretions, which I think is really hurting the most Slovenian self-government, we really don't want to cooperate and we don't support such a decision. But all responsibility for all that is happening falls on you, the ruling coalition.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u312	Mr. Bajc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u313	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I explained once before that we did not vote today, not in truth, not in law. And given that some would like to reduce their work before the new year, when they are equally entitled to be included in this list, they use other remedies, by challenging this decision, which would be voted on today, I will also vote against the decision myself.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u314	Thank you. Mr. Kontic, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u315	Thank you very much, Mr Vice-President, otherwise I expected a word after the adjournment of the meeting, as is the case with the Rules of Procedure, who is asking for an interruption, but in fact this is not the most important thing. As we have already said in the introduction on behalf of the parliamentary group, the establishment of new municipalities is, of course, an invitation to a referendum in one way or another, but all the exceptions that thus become a rule for Members and Members of the Social Democrats are unacceptable. The parliamentary group in this composition will vote here today against the decision we are taking today, because of the lack of arbitration and the actual political judgement. And as I said in the introduction, I firmly believe that the Constitutional Court will have much work to do on this decision or on this decision, and at this point no one knows what will come to an end or what will be the result of that decision. I would also like to point out, for example, that we have voted differently on the same content of the amendment, but that I am not talking about the different settlements that wanted to become referendum zones. We have judged the political likeness or affiliation of individual parties. The Group of the Social Democrats, I repeat, opposes such a decision or decision and we will all vote against that decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u316	Thank you very much. Mr. Yuri, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u317	In my personal name, I will also, of course, object to the decision itself, which, in my firm belief, creates only an illusion, repeat the illusion into a better future. Regardless of the bazaar we have staged, the respected bazaar here today, I have already been determined to oppose this decision, to be convinced that fragmentation also reduces the development potential and potential of each individual environment, increases conflict in space and certainly does not contribute to social progress and social solidarity. With regard to the referendum on the possible municipality of Ankara-Croatia, if the decision is taken, I hope that the inhabitants and residents of this area will not inherit those who are being expelled by word or action from the municipality of Koper, in order to contribute to the fact that the Municipality of Koper will, of course, remain united, linked because they will continue to rule by co-existence and solidarity and will also be shown by the indicators of development. If they're not happy with the mayor, they'd better make sure he gets replaced in the next election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u318	Thank you. Mr. Rezman Willi has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u319	In the DeSUS Group, it will be difficult to find a common way out of this confusion that we have brewed in Parliament because all the criteria have fallen. The criterion has been common sense for some time, but of course it has not been said whose common sense is true because everyone has his own. The criteria were legal conditions for some time, and they were again challenged, and so also the right one in his own way. Because it is difficult to predict that tomorrow someone else could tell us what is right today, we cannot vote in such a way that we are committed to how to vote. He will vote in his own conscience, so he will vote by trying to find his way out of this confusion.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u320	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Kramberger.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u321	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, I will not support this decision. I've made two suggestions. The number of people in both referendum areas is roughly the same. In fact, both areas have almost identical conditions, including health care conditions, so that one area does not have a place where this activity is carried out. And because of that, of course, I can't explain to these people why some people can have a referendum area and others don't have one. I will therefore vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u322	Thank you very much. Mr. Kumer, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u323	Thank you for your word. I'm voting against the ruling. I haven't spoken to you yet. But I was convinced by all those who said today that we voted in violation of the legislation in force today, that we voted against the law in the temple where we adopt laws. Some of the discussers were talking about it. And as a Member, of course, in the legislative body, I cannot vote for a decree that is obviously illegal in advance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u324	Mr. Gulic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u325	Respectable and respected, distinguished president. Of course, there's been a lot of confusion. It is true, as many here say, that for some time the vote was passed by reason of reason, for some time after marriage, for some time after "bypass", for some time without reason. And of course, all of this has created such a thing that is not really like anything. The only way, of course, is to kind of erase the matter, fix it, just vote against it and give up all this work, the results of this. But let's keep the experience from all of this. It's an experience about how it's not good to work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u326	Thank you very much. Mr. Tarchoon, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u327	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'm not going to back this decision. I happened to look at the calendar yesterday and I realized that today is about 5 p.m. a full moon. Clearly, Members and Members of the ruling coalition have borne considerable weight in their decision-making, because they are primarily responsible by their majority to make quality decisions. These decisions were not of quality today, but they were on the moon after the full moon. And that's why I can't answer if the moon is carrying you and I won't take the decision, I'll back you up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u328	Thank you. Mr. Kokalj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u329	And unlike the predecessors, I will support the decision. Even though my initiative for Mr Aureli's joy was the worst supported. She didn't make it through, but I think it's a shame to challenge the other people's right to make a decision. As I said before, I think that support is local self-government - and as long as it is still the will to have people take over the work in their field, it is necessary to support them - the only way that this country may develop a little more democratically and possibly more coherent regionally is gone, there are no other instruments.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u330	Thank you. Mr. Anderlich, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u331	I will not take part in this vote for three reasons. For the first time, because I have not received an answer to the question that I have asked in the morning, why the land is being stolen in one congregation and given in another, the decrees are changing just like that. I know why. Because they have a godfather from there, but I didn't get an answer here. Secondly, because you do not allow yourself to be separately identified as being a legal right, the result in a particular area. This is an essential fundamental right which all citizens and citizens have by law are not allowed. One me, the other not. And thirdly, because I don't really know which decision we're voting on. In the vote before that, we voted on the same amendments several times: once it was not voted, the second it was voted. So, I vote on what? Is there an undeclared amendment or a motion? But there is likely to be a law enforcement office and a business commission, or a court of law, or a court of law, or a court of law, or elsewhere, to explain this embarrassment. But that's embarrassing. And if you want, there's a fourth reason. I've got two votes here, one score is 32, 30 for, and the other vote is 28 to 37. And I look at the other paper, tables and the same thing, 30 more people in that municipality, they're both in excess of 2000, and the word's in the vote, and the other one's possible is not. Of course, in the correctional exam, if that's what it is, it was the other one, but it's an unfair job, so I can't be a part of it.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u332	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u333	Thank you very much. I will also support the decree, there is no reason not to support it, but not all the proposals we have proposed in New Slovenia have received support. But today, as far as municipalities are concerned, in fact Slovenia is one bullshit nest, in fact guilty of the Liberal Democracy, which for 12 years established the municipalities as it wanted. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u334	Mr. Sok, a voice explanation, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u335	I'm just explaining. Before me, colleague Anderlič spoke all sorts, was the leader of the parliamentary group and influenced here how they voted. Once again, I will support the decree, the will of the majority in this National Assembly is such that a consultation referendum is held in these areas and there is no reason to reject this decision today. I'll vote in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u336	Yes, Mr. Trophynik.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u337	Thank you for your word. I will, of course, vote against it for a simple reason, because a direct constitutional decision - one you do not know - has been violated - which guarantees and is enforceable that a separate referendum area or clarification in the referendum area should be made possible. That's the first reason. However, the second reason is that the grave violation of the Rules of Procedure in explaining the vote has led to a lie or a false statement. However, it will be interesting to know why the leadership of the National Assembly has prevented Members from obtaining the conclusions of the municipal council with which they were adopted and the statement just before the vote was directly contrary to the already adopted decisions of the municipal council on this issue, so I will vote against it, of course.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u338	We're moving on to decision-making. Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u339	Thank you. On behalf of the parliamentary group, I propose a half-hour recess before the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u340	Mr. Tanko, it's been one break. Please, Mr. Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u341	Mr President, everything is fine and fine, but as far as I know the rules of procedure, it was already a day before the vote, and it is not possible to give it again. But you are the chairman, and you do it by your own conscience and by your knowledge of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u342	You offered to take a break. It's been used for 10 minutes. Please. The same question may be settled for a maximum of 45 minutes. It's been used for 10 minutes. 30 minutes rest, at 6.40 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u343	Your Honor! We continue to interrupt the 1st item of the agenda. And given that in the course of the debate, especially in the last part, there are still some issues that need to be clarified, I would suggest or assign a 10-minute break. I'm taking a 15-minute recess to consult with the leaders of the parliamentary groups in room 217. At 7 p.m., we resume the meeting. I think it's very serious.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u344	Dear Members and honourable Members! We continue the session with the 1st and 1st points. Given that both documents are very linked and there have been some complications at the time of the vote and it is expected that the coordination of both documents, both acts, will be necessary, I will not proceed now with the final vote on the decree in full, but we will move on to point 1b. Thus, point 1a will be interrupted, we will move to point 1b, we will hold a debate and vote on the open amendments, because then we will see the extent of non-compliance if there is any chance. Then we will move to a vote on point 1a and then on point 1b. When we move to point 1b, I remind you that you have an amendment review of 15.12.2005, but all amendments are irrelevant, except for the three amendments. They are irrelevant because they were adopted in a decree or rejected in a decree. The open amendments on which we will vote are the amendment to the 12th point, the amendment to the 13th point and the amendment to the 17th point. So much for an explanation. Now there are a number of procedural issues, first of all Mrs. Zalokar. And you were the first? Excuse me, Mrs. Zalokareva. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u345	Thank you very much. Mr President, at this consultation that you have called on us, we did not do anything but say what anyone thinks about a particular matter. And now, given that the President-in-Office's Rules of Procedure during the meeting of the National Assembly, I ask you whether the amendments we have adopted to this resolution were in fact irrelevant, because the same content as those two that were previously rejected, whether these two amendments have been adopted and whether these two amendments are contained in the Referendum Decision and the establishment of the Referendum Areas.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u346	These two amendments have been adopted and therefore the amendments to point 12 and point 13 are open under point 1b. Mrs. Zalokarev?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u347	Yes, I'm sorry, I've been thinking, it's very difficult to follow all of these correspondences that we're actually getting here today on such an important subject as the establishment of new congregations. Our representative couldn't explain it at the meeting either, and I'm joining up and I'm actually asking again [[...]] [[Intermediate speaking.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u348	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u349	I ask again how we can move to a vote on the decision, because the decisions and decisions are in fact fully linked. [[...]] I don't know why we're terminating the decision, you haven't given any explanation. After what I have learned from my fellow Member, this explanation has not been given at the meeting of the leaders of the groups of Members, so I am interested in why we are interrupting the decision on the decision because the matter of the decision has been taken, and I have already warned you this morning at your meeting, completely intertwined and if we do not know what is in the decision and how and what the decision has been adopted, or whether the decision has been adopted at all, it seems impossible for us to go forward and vote on the decision if we have not yet adopted the decision. These mothers are connected and we can't talk about them anyway. There really is something here that a person would hardly realize is possible in this world, not in Parliament at all.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u350	I think that the matter is not so vague and that also your representative in the morning and it has been very clear now that, as you say, both decrees are very connected and the amendments have been in a couple of days, that is to say, if a certain amendment to the decision has not been adopted, then the amendment, the question of the amendment in the decision, is irrelevant. Three amendments to the decision were adopted, so three amendments were opened in the joint. Mr. Anderlich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u351	Despite all this confusion, the matter of force is simple. From the moment you, as chairman and as interpreters of the Rules of Procedure, took the view that the amendments, which, in my opinion, have been put to the vote in dispute, meant that the debate and the decision on the amendment to the decision on the establishment of the municipalities had ended and that the decision on the establishment of the municipalities should in fact be voted on. Whether someone will challenge this decision by the President that it was right until the end of the vote on the amendments is another thing. But right now, the thing is crystal clear. You said the amendments were in the vote, they were adopted, we are voting on the decision. If this decision is adopted, we can go to the next point to say, but these proposals, which I think were also proposals for the establishment of referendum areas, did not come into force. We also vote on that proposal. That's all. So we really don't have to interrupt this point and go to the next. I also represented this in that discussion, because it was not so clear there that the three contested votes were interpreted in the way that the second vote is in the way that you take it into account.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u352	I would ask you to consider that there is no debate on my decision. I've explained the decision and we've moved on to point 1.b. If anyone has a procedural proposal, say it. Mr. Gantar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u353	Mr President, I don't understand your decision. It is true that, under point 1a of the decision, certain amendments were adopted, which were rejected, but those amendments do not have legal effect until the decision has been fully adopted. You cannot say that amendments are already a legal fact if the decision is not taken. Therefore, we cannot go to point 1b until we have adopted a decree and thereby confirm these amendments adopted in the form of a decree as a whole, as an integral part. Then we can go to 1.b point So it's impossible to go to 1.b point and then look at what we're going to do back. That is why I am once again calling on you, this is my procedural proposal to go back to point 1a reasonably and meaningfully and to vote on the decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u354	Mr Gantar, Mr Anderlich, Mr Lahovnik, and all of you who still have concerns. The second paragraph of Rule 86 of the Rules of Procedure shall read as follows: The President may decide at the beginning of the meeting or during the meeting at the time of the vote. And I have set a time when the vote on point 1a will take place. We're at 1B now. Not anymore, Mr. Gantar. These issues and initiatives were not procedural enough. We are moving on to item 1b of the agenda, which is to consider the proposal for a decision finding that individual areas do not meet the conditions for setting up or modifying the municipality. The draft decision was submitted to the local self-government and regional development committee for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the Chairman of the Committee, Paul Rupar, to further explain the proposal for a decision. Please. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Mrs. Zalokareva, I've made myself clear. You had twice the time for a procedural proposal, you didn't give it. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u355	We made a procedural proposal, but you didn't accept it, but because you don't know it and you don't see it in my head, let me say that on behalf of the delegation group, because you started point 1.b, I demand 45 minutes of breaks for consultation.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u356	This is the time you will get Mrs. Zalokarev before the vote. Mr. Pavel Rupar, you have the floor. [[He doesn't want to.]] I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory explanation of the opinion. [[He doesn't want to.]] We are once again going to the debate on the proposal for a decision. I will give the text first to the representatives of the parliamentary groups, but I remind you that there are only three proposals, only three amendments. First of all, Mr. Bojan Kontic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u357	Thank you very much, Mr. President. According to your decision, we continue with this mess, which is perfect. The fact is that what is in the decision should not be in the decision, and what is not in the decision should be contained in the decision. This Decision contains all those proposals for the establishment of municipalities which, in the opinion of the Government and of an additional working body, do not meet the conditions laid down by the Local Self-Government Act. It will include all those areas for which we have decided not to fall under the decree in the process of amending the decision on the referendum. If we were to conduct a meeting of the National Assembly roughly like we did on the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development, I do not think we would have these misunderstandings now, because the points are very closely linked. When we decided on the decision, we should therefore decide on the decision, and we would not have these complications at the moment. As with the decision, this decision concerns exceptions which are arbitrarily separate from those which the Government considers to be eligible and supported in the National Assembly. [[There's a riot in the hall.]] Presidents, shall we proceed or not? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u358	Excuse me, Mr. Contic. Please, be quiet!
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u359	Here, too, it is important to note that there is a weakness and a poor explanation. There have actually been many calls to our parliamentary group. They ask questions that are not easy to answer. We have many municipalities that do not meet the conditions and also have fewer people and populations than some of the suggestions that will be rejected today. Nothing would be wrong if today’s decision contained all the areas that wanted to become a congregation but did not meet the conditions. Thus, only exceptions to exceptions are listed here, but they do not have the support to become exceptions listed in the Referendum invitation to tender. At this point, I could reiterate all the arguments I have put forward on behalf of the Social Democrats' Group in its consideration of the resolution on the call for referendums. Let me just say that the Group of Members opposes the further fragmentation of the municipalities and at the same time points out that the way of arbitration without sound explanation is not acceptable for Members and Members of the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u360	Thank you, Mr. Conticy. Mr. Aloise Sok will present [[...]] [[No, he's canceling.]] Mr. Zmago Jelinčič, position of the Slovenian National Party. [[He's quitting.]] Mr. Willie Rezman, please, on behalf of the DeSUS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u361	Thank you very much. In view of the increasing confusion, which is a minute-to-minute increase, the DeSUS Group does not wish to increase. Therefore, we will not give up our prepared position, which may be even more confusing to those who are already confused, and we give up our position.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u362	Thank you, Mr. Rezman. Mr Branko Marinič will present the position of the SDS Group of Members. [[He's quitting.]] Mrs. Flowers Zalokar Orzam is not here. We have therefore concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Individual Members have the floor. Mr. Janko Weber. [[He's not here.]] Joseph Horvath? [[He's quitting.]] Marian Pojbich? [[He's quitting.]] Jakob the Presbyterian? [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Geza Juban. [[No, no, ……]] He's not here. Aurelio Yuri. Does anyone even want to discuss the three amendments? Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u363	Thank you for your word. I would like to say to the President-in-Office, my fellow Member and Members that, given how the material was prepared first point 1st and then point 1st, in any event, even if we had voted on the decision first, it would have been possible for the decision to be voted on in a slightly different manner than in the decision, so of course it would have been necessary to adapt the decision to the decision. In New Slovenia, regardless of what our opposition is trying to do procedurally now, we agree with what the President has decided and decided, it is said that we are going to decide the decision first, then find out what we have taken or what we have not adopted in the decision and then, if necessary, return to the decision through the harmonisation amendment. So for us, such a decision is clear and, of course, we will also decide on these three amendments, which have remained in the conclusion as necessary in order to decide on them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u364	Thank you. Anybody else want some? The ones that are registered. Mr. Aurelio Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u365	Thank you, President. I didn't mean to come by, because, like my friend Rezman said, the confusion is complete, the bazaar continues and we don't know who's drinking and who's paying for it. What colleague Sok says gives priority to the absolute adoption of a decision that only has a determining nature at the address of those municipalities that are supposed to fail to meet the conditions. The only act having any legal effect, the only act triggering a series of proceedings, is the decree. And the decree should have priority in making decisions. The decision is merely a result of a decision. Now that we are confusing this consciousness, Mr President, you can do this, but I think that this whole process will be easier to find a way to the Constitutional Court and we will see the consequences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u366	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? I am concluding the general debate on the decision and moving on to debate and decision-making on the open amendments. I am putting an amendment to the 12th item proposed by the Slovenian People's Party and Mr Zammernik Mirko in the debate and vote. Both amendments are identical and we will discuss and vote on this amendment only once. Here you go. Mr. Contic.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u367	I see there's no debate, but you'll figure it out.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u368	It's an amendment debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u369	I don't think he's interested in the debate. But if it is, I'd like to have a procedural discussion.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u370	Anyone else on the amendment to the 12th? I conclude the debate on the amendment to point 12. Mr. Contic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u371	Given that colleagues and colleagues from the LDS are not in the Chamber, on behalf of the Socialist Group of Members, I request a 45-minute recess before deciding on this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u372	Okay. We'd have finished the voice-explanatory phase. Anybody want to explain their voice? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing my explanation for the voice and assigning 45 minutes of breaks, that's until 20.15.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u373	Dear Members and honourable Members! Continue with the interrupted 1.b point. I ask Mr. Kontic, does he want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u374	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We consulted in the Social Democrats' Group on the continuation of this point or the decision on the amendments and then on the decision on this agenda item. The agreement reached today before this meeting was also a result of the knowledge that the decision and amendments to it must be first considered and decided upon and then adopted a decision on the call for a referendum and setting up referendum areas for the establishment of municipalities and for the establishment or modification of their areas as a whole. The adoption of this Decision would then be followed by a review of the decision, i.e. a finding that the individual areas do not meet the conditions for the establishment of a municipality or for the modification of its territory. Since there was a procedural complication or procedural error in dealing with item 1 of the agenda, that is 1.a of the agenda, that we voted on two amendments that were actually irrelevant, you used tactics not to say fraud, to stop the meeting or to address the decision and to move to the consideration of the decision to remedy the error that occurred at point 1.a. Members of the Social Democrats are certainly not in a position to participate. Therefore, in accordance with the second paragraph of Rule 65 of the Rules of Procedure, I declare the absence of all members of the Group of Members when dealing with point 1.a.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u375	Mr Kontič, we are looking at point 1.b [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u376	The thought was 1.b point. Thank you, Mr. President, for your warning.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u377	Thank you. Mr. Gantar, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u378	Mr. President! Unfortunately, and not for the first time, I find that you have seriously violated the procedure and good practice in the National Assembly. First of all, you violated the agreement of the College in the morning, after which the general debate on the decision was first held, you discussed and voted on the amendments to the decree and finally adopted the decision and then moved on to point 1.b and voted on the decision. You suspended the vote in the middle of the vote and moved to a new point. By doing so, you have misused the right to determine the voting time before the vote. If we were not already in the voting process, we would not be able to explain to the voice what we have already done. So you suspended the vote during the vote and not before the vote. This is a serious breach of the rules of procedure. You have moved to consider the decision, although the decision which is the basis for the decision has not been adopted. And here you have limited the debate to three amendments, although these amendments have not been confirmed because no decision has been taken. Therefore, we should complete point 1.a and complete the vote on the decree and then move on to point 1.b. At the very least, if you have already gone to point 1b, we should allow debate and vote on all the amendments, because we cannot prejudge the form in which the decision will be adopted. You go across all lines of good taste and you do harm to this House. By manipulating the procedure you try to cover the inconsistencies in the decision-making and cover, in the term "cows of the deal" in the coalition. That is why we also apply Article 65, paragraph 2 and work, both points 1a and 1b do not intend to participate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u379	Thank you. We are moving to a vote on the amendment to the 12th point of the two proponents, the proposaler of the SLS Group and Mr Zammernik. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 48 Members and Members present, 15 votes against 29. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 29.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on the amendment to the 13th item, namely the amendment of the two drafters, Mrs Uhan Marjetka or the group of Members, the first signed Uhan Marjetka, and the SLS Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 52 Members and Members present, 13 votes against 36. [[13 votes in favour.]] [[Against 36.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on the amendment to item 17. The proposer is the Slovenian National Party. Anybody want to talk? [[Nobody.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 52 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 7. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against the seven.]] I take it that the proposed amendment has been adopted. I hereby conclude the debate and decision on the amendments which we have carried out following the review of the amendments of 15.12. under 1b. I'm asking the government representative if the documents are consistent.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u380	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! By rejecting the amendments to paragraphs 12 and 13 of the Decision, which do not meet the conditions for setting up or modifying the municipalities, the decision became inconsistent with the adopted decision. It is therefore necessary to prepare a harmonisation amendment to the Decision on the call for a referendum and setting out the referendum areas and to determine or amend their areas. At this point, it would probably be most appropriate for the parent committee to draw up a harmonisation amendment to the decree itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u381	There is no debate on that. Procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u382	Mr President, I don't know what we're dealing with now. The ruling has not yet been adopted, Mr Secretary. What are we not attuned to if the decree has not yet been adopted?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u383	Mr Member, there are two equivalent decisions, two equivalent acts, which are inconsistent. To avoid the issue or complications, this finding is now at a stage that needs to be coordinated. For reasons of non-compliance, I ask the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development to prepare a harmonisation amendment. Here you go, Mr. Pache.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u384	I don't think we should get into the habit of commenting on leadership. One of the leading people comments on the other leadership. But I think that today's debate, and above all leadership, has in many ways exceeded not only the limit of good taste, but also the entire practice of this national assembly. Mr President, we cannot determine what he has found before us, according to my assessment, is the wrong, Secretary of State, non-compliance with an act that does not exist at all. We 1.a do not complete the points, then this cannot be the case. I propose that, given that a good part of the Members have left us and personally I think that we should convene a college, because decisions on the establishment of municipalities and all acts accompanying the designation of municipalities or referendums should be reached with maximum compromise. We should all strive to avoid obstruction. But what's happening now is just a little too much. We cannot agree to the State Secretary's theory of non-compliance with a non-existent act. You have now confirmed the theory that the absence of an act is inconsistent with a non-existent act. Please, we really can't do this.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u385	Here you go, Mr. Znidarsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u386	Thank you, Mr. President. We also do not intend to cooperate in this matter anymore and, in accordance with Rule 65 of the Rules of Procedure, paragraph 2 announces obstruction at this point.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u387	I'm adjourning the session in five minutes. We'll resume in five minutes at 20.33 hours.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u388	Please, honourable Members and honourable Members, take their seats. After consulting the professional services and the legislative and legal service, we have found that the proposal or the thought given by Mr Peceta is substantial and that it is better if we finish and conclude one act, 1st item of the agenda. We'll go to the vote on 1 b. points entirely, with amended amendments or with an adopted amendment. A single amendment was accepted. We are therefore moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision finding that individual areas do not meet the conditions for the establishment of a municipality or for the change of its territory, in its entirety. Anybody want to explain their voice? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. The vote is under way. There are 49 Members and Members present, 39 votes against 6. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against six.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I now ask once again the representative of the government whether they took place at point 1a of non-compliance. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u389	Mr President, there must have been a discrepancy at point 1a now, so there would have been a need for harmonisation.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u390	Thank you very much. The Committee will certainly have to prepare a harmonisation amendment. At that point, I ask you whether the committee would do this today or tomorrow morning. We can do it today. How long does the Coordination Committee need?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u391	Mr. President. I suggest that at 8:45 a.m., the board meet us at the big salon. In 15 minutes, we could accept the harmonisation amendment, so we can continue at 9:00.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u392	This is said to be a proposal to continue at 9 p.m. Mr. Peche.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u393	Thank you. If I may, I would only ask if, within the framework of the committee, they can confirm to me that the decision is a result of a decision. But hold that, but it doesn't?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u394	That's not a question. We have cleared this up with the legislative and legal service and will also be able to support the committee on this issue. Here you go. You wanted a procedural proposal, Mr Kramberger.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u395	Mr President, I will, but no, God forbid, maliciously, but after my modest knowledge of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to ask you a question. The Commission will now coordinate between the decision not adopted and the decisions adopted. Would it not be right for us to take this decision, whatever it is, and then coordinate these two documents with each other? That's actually what we have to do. The Commission will now coordinate the adoption of an act with an unaccepted act.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u396	No, that's not how it works. In any event, the decision will have to be harmonised in the light of the decision taken. If there is no other procedural proposal, I am adjourning the meeting and will continue at 21:00 with 1:00.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u397	The amendment reproduces. If you don't mind, he should be here in about five or eight minutes. We'll wait. Dear Members and honourable Members! We're going to break point one. Due to the inconsistencies identified, the Local Self-Government and Regional Development Committee has drawn up a harmonisation amendment that you received on the bench or two amendments. We will discuss both amendments and vote on each. Would you like to speak to the chairman of the committee about the harmonisation amendments? Here you go, Mr. Rupar.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u398	The Committee was concluded with eight members involved and decided by one vote against, others to delete the text setting out the Mozirje referendum area for the Municipality of Rečica ob Savinja, and this is also proposed for admission to the National Assembly. He also voted in favour of the municipality of Trebnje for the designation of the municipality of Trebnje in the new municipality of Šentrupert. So he accepted the harmonisation amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u399	Thank you. Do Members and Members want the word? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the harmonisation amendment that, in the first section, the designation of the referendum area for the establishment of the municipality for the establishment of the part of the municipality in the new municipality shall be deleted from the following point: "As a referendum area, the part of the municipality of Mozire, which is to be removed from the municipality of Mozire to the new municipality of Rečica ob Savinja and the scope of the amendment of the said settlements." We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present, 38 votes against 13. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 13.]] I note that this harmonisation amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the second harmonisation amendment, namely, that in the first section, the establishment of a referendum area for the establishment of a municipality by the exclusion of part of the municipality from the new municipality is deleted from the following point: "As a referendum area is defined as part of the municipality of Trebnje, which is to be removed from the municipality of Trebnje to the new municipality of Šentrupert and the scope of the following areas of settlements listed in the amendment. We're voting. The vote on the harmonisation amendment is ongoing. There are 52 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 14. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 14th.]] I note that both or these harmonisation amendments have been adopted. We are moving on to a full decision-making process. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 54 Members and Members present, 45 votes in favour, 8 votes in favour. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I note that the decision on the call for a referendum and the establishment of referendum areas for the establishment of municipalities and on the establishment or modification of their areas has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! We're moving to four. POINT OF THE DAY - ON THE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPORTS OF THE COMMUNITY ESTABLISHMENT, AND THE PROVISIONS OF THEIR AREAS, EPA 247. Since it's already late, I suggest we move this point to 10:00 tomorrow. However, we still have a few votes to make today regarding the cut-off point. This is about the initiative or request of Members to discuss the answer to the questions raised by the Members. Before we vote on this, I am therefore putting to the vote a procedural proposal to move the fourth point to tomorrow at 10 a.m. and thus move the other points forward. There's no debate. If one third opposes, then the proposal will not be adopted. We are voting on a procedural proposal to transfer the fourth point to tomorrow at 10 a.m. The vote is under way. There are 54 Members present and 48 votes against 2. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the procedural proposal has been adopted. We are moving to a vote on point 1 on the proposals for a debate. First, under point 1. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Miran Potrč, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the response of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Janez Janša, to the question of Mr Miran Porč, on the government's programme of economic and social reforms. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 58 Members and Members present, 12 votes against 45. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the proposed decision was rejected by the assembly. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Mark Pavliha, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the response of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Janez Janša, to the question of the post-op question of Dr Mark Pavliha concerning the privatisation of the Mutual Health Insurance Office. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 60 Members and Members present, 17 votes against 43. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 43.]] I note that the proposed decision is not adopted. In line with Ambassador Breda Pečan's proposal, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the response of the Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology, Dr Jureta Zupan, to the question of Mr Breda Pecan, on the procedure for setting up a higher education agency. Mrs. Pecanova, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u400	Thank you very much. On behalf of the parliamentary group and on my behalf, I would like to say that we will vote in favour of this decision because things are going at a dizzying rate. Today we have seen that Dr. Zupan, Minister for Higher Education, Science and Technology Development, has already continued the story of the fulfilment of the legal obligation of our country adopted by the National Assembly last year, namely the establishment of a higher education agency which does not intend to establish it and which it intends to eliminate by means of a law on higher education, so that the law will once again propose to the National Assembly, where the Higher Education Agency will be abolished. I believe that the culmination of the impossible decisions that Dr. Zupan, the Minister for Higher Education, Science and Technology Development has already made and that he continues to make by creating from higher education, from the academic sphere, from research and scientific institutions an obedient flock of people who will work as he did and imagined. For this reason, I believe that the debate on his response is essential.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u401	Please, only Mrs. Pecanova has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u402	Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u403	Thank you. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 59 Members and Members present, 13 votes against 46. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the proposed decision was rejected by the assembly. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Ljuba Germić, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next regular meeting on the response of Minister of Health Andrej Bručan to the question of the Member State of Ljubljana Germić regarding the purchase of operating tables for the needs of the Clinical Centre. Mr. Kangler, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u404	Thank you for your word, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I myself will support such a proposal, and I also expect the solidarity of my Group of Members to support it. I have asked a similar question to the Minister in writing and have not yet received an answer. I'll probably get an answer in the future, but I wouldn't want to blame the well-respected minister either. With some information that came to me, it was clear and clear that third-class bureaucrats were preparing public contracts in large state institutions and that there were some discrepancies in the procurement of equipment for the Clinical Centre. Members should probably be interested in talking about this here, although some of the reactions and the anonymous letter that came to me have nothing to do with the respected minister, in my personal opinion. Therefore, I would not like to see a political debate on the response of the Minister. In this place, I would like to open a debate on some of the public procurement contracts that run in Slovenia under the Public Procurement Act and that we also speak to those who have any information about some of the lobbyists who rule in this country. So trust me, with all your responsibility, with all your seriousness. [[....]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] I will support this proposal, no matter who proposed it. I think it would be wise if we were here on public procurement. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u405	Mr. Kangler [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u406	We're talking about public procurement in medicine. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u407	Thank you. Mrs. Zalokareva.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u408	Thank you very much. I hope that we will vote in such a way that this debate will be held in the National Assembly. All that I can say about this, in my opinion, is that we can already call it, read it in the media, suggests that the matter needs to be clarified, both before the public and before those involved in this matter. The matter itself will no longer be able to be settled or clarified through the procedure. I think there's two things to say here. It is necessary to answer whether the decision by which the operating tables were chosen was significantly more expensive for more than 10 million more expensive, thus also damaging taxpayers in this case, and in particular everything that has happened since some Members began to discover this story shows that this is not the case as it should have been. We can read about very unusual matters related to our premises as well, threats and I think that if we all want to clear up this matter together, and get to the bottom of it, then members of the coalition will also allow this to actually be explained and perhaps from those who are, at this point in time, also as accomplices, a distant shadow of guilt.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-15-SDZ4-Redna-12.ana.u409	Thank you. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 20 votes in favour, 38 votes in favour. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 38.]] I note that the proposed decision is not adopted. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of the Mag. Boruta Saiovica will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the reply of the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Mrs Marija Lukačič, to the question of mags. Boruta Saiovica on the allocation of milk premiums and grants for agricultural investments. We're voting. There are 56 Members present and 10 votes against 46. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision. I hereby conclude this agenda item and interrupt the meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. and 4 p.m.
