ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the third meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, convened pursuant to Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that they are detained and cannot attend today's meeting of the following Members and Members: Roberto Battelli, Robert Hrovat, Alojz Posedel and Jakob Preseknik. I invited the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Janez Janša, to the 1st item, representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to all items on the agenda, the Ombudsman to the 7th item and the representative of the Office of the President of the Republic of Slovenia to the 13th item. I welcome all the invitees here! We are moving on to the agenda of the 3rd meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The draft agenda is drawn up in accordance with Rule 59 of the Rules of Procedure and received by reference to the meeting on 11 February 2005. The draft agenda will be decided in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I have not received any proposals for withdrawal of items from the agenda. On Friday, 18 February 2005, the LDS Club proposed to the assembly an extension of the agenda of the meeting by addressing the Ombudsman's special report on the issues deleted in the Ombudsman's annual reports. The proposal submitted contradicts the provision of Article 64(6) of the Rules of Procedure because the reasons for the extension did not arise after the meeting. Nor does the proposal meet the conditions set out in Article 58(2) of the Rules of Procedure and the proposal for enlargement opposes paragraph 59(2) of the Rules of Procedure, as the matter is not prepared by the Home Commission in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and I will therefore not put that proposal to the vote. I have not received any other proposals for extending the agenda. I propose to the assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda which you have received with reference. You want to explain your voice? Here you go, Mr. Potch.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u2	The President, in your conclusions, I would like to take advantage of the procedural possibility of having a right of consultation before the decision is taken by the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u3	There is no way for the agenda to be adopted. This is in accordance with the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure adopted on 20 September 2002 with regard to the second paragraph of Rule 73 of the Rules of Procedure. You have it in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on page 111. There is no debate on this, so we are moving on to a vote. It is possible to explain the voice, so I invite Members of Parliament and Members who wish to explain their vote to apply. [[Mrs. Shirca, Mr. Potch.]] Anyone else? Mr Aurelio Juri, Mrs Breda Pecan, Mrs Majda Potrata, Mr Miran Potrč and Mrs Majda Širca have so far been asked to explain their vote. We're moving on to an explanation of vote. Does anyone want to explain on behalf of the parliamentary group? Mr. Potch, do you want to do this on behalf of the Group of Members? Here you go. Three minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I already wanted to say on vacation and show this national council that it is wrong not to decide on the possibility to put things on the agenda that are not pleasant and pleasant to it. I believe that the proposal they made in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia to place the Ombudsman's report on deleted persons on the agenda as well. None of us is a nice and pleasant item in the agenda. Especially for those who have been warned by the Ombudsman that they have not been prepared to do anything so far, that this issue will be dealt with in a normal manner and that solutions will be sought by means of which, according to the undisputed opinion of the Ombudsman and the Constitutional Court, this injustice will begin to be rectified in an organised manner. Inhibiting the possibility of discussing this issue with, I would say, arbitrary explanations of the Rules of Procedure are not useful and it is our desire to say this and to believe that the ruling coalition should also consider itself responsible to approach this issue, because, sooner or later, this problem will be without need, because we are able to solve it, it will become a stone that we will meet again and again in our political practice. We know that this is not the reason why we should not vote in favour of the agenda, because there are other issues that are important, especially the decision that the Law on Public Servants is not being dealt with in short proceedings, and that is why we will vote in favour, but we want to explain this position. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u5	As far as there is no misunderstanding, however, let me explain that the proposal for a special report is not included on the agenda because it does not meet the conditions and the Commission was asked to complete its report. As soon as the report is completed, the report of the Ombudsman will be placed on the agenda of the meeting. As for the proposal why it is not included, the proposal to expand the agenda, I must reiterate that this proposal does not meet any of the requirements of the Rules of Procedure. That's why I didn't put him on the agenda. We continue to explain the voice. Mrs. Majda Shirca has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u6	I cannot support such a agenda, Mr President, because at the College in January we decided to address both reports by the Ombudsman, on domestic violence and on deleted persons, on the day we face the anniversary and the hunger strike on deleted ones is about to begin. Both reports, both of which have been deleted and of violence, have been dealt with on the home labour body and we have a record of both reports. I do not agree that this is a violation of the rules of procedure, but I think it is a violation of the agenda because you have only listed one report. You have withdrawn it by explaining that no decision or recommendation has been adopted on the home working body and we all know that this is not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, as this does not make it conditional on the consideration of the report by decision or recommendation. We do know, however, that the coalition Members voted against the rule of law or against the enforcement of the Constitutional Court decision on the panel. This withdrawal suggests that when someone likes it, they are placed on the agenda of a specific point, otherwise not and that you avoid considering this report. In short, I do not agree with this because it is also a bad message to the domestic and international public, and in particular to the statements of some Members and Members that it would be best to abolish the Ombudsman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u7	Thank you, Mrs. Shirci. Mr Aurelio Juri has an explanation of vote. Please. He's quitting. Mrs. Breda Bakan. He's quitting. Mrs. Majda Potter, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u8	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Several times it has been possible to hear and read that the Commission for Petitions and for Human Rights and Equal Opportunities has not done its job. The Commission has done its job. The consideration of the Special Ombudsman's report was included in the regular meeting on 2 February and a decision was proposed with a recommendation which spoke of nothing other than that the Government prepare a solution that would be in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision. If, in democracy, some feel that such a decision cannot be supported and persisted in their decision, given the power ratio - this is a rare one, if not the only commission where the membership is a court and the ratio of forces is half to half - the question, Mr President, may be, in relation to your recommendation, that the Commission should re-examine the special report and, in this regard, accept what can be accepted in such a force relationship if the minimum legal standards cannot be respected on the Commission, including from the point of view of those who so clearly advocate how much they feel about the rule of law. But in this country we hear that the Constitutional Court is not what it should be that the Ombudsman is not what he should be and I wonder where these things will end. However, in order to convene a commission before this meeting of the National Assembly, Mr President, you know that there is no conditions for calling an urgent meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u9	Thank you. For the second and last time, I ask Members and Members, does anyone else want to explain their voice? I will read: Mr Grims, Jerovšek, Petan, Sok, Saiovic, Pece and Saiovic. Anyone else? I'm a locksmith. I don't see any other hands. Mr. Grimes, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u10	Thank you for your word. Good bye to all of you! I must say that I share the regret of those who today are not satisfied that the Ombudsman's report is not included on the agenda. I very much regret that it does not meet the conditions for consideration, because I must say that it is certainly a topic that will be considered to be serious to discuss seriously what its content is and also why we are in a situation in which, when we all know that this matter could have been resolved long ago, if, of course, it was not once about a solution in which a consensus was reached by the then leadership of the State and Parliament, namely, the President of the State, the former President of Parliament, by the way, also the President of the party which we have now heard, and also the opposition at the time, we have agreed that this issue should be resolved by constitutional law. We have already drawn up a proposal, and we have coordinated on it, and then this unilaterally broke down, and that is, of course, why we are also facing this problem today. I hope that it will be possible to speak very seriously and responsibly at the next meeting, as well as about the role of individuals and their views in this debate. Today, I will vote in favour of the agenda, so that today's session runs smoothly and as quickly as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u11	Thank you, Mr Grimes. Mr. Sasha Pece has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u12	Your Honors are here! We will, of course, support the agenda in the Slovenian National Party, for two reasons in particular. Two very important laws are included in this meeting. The first is the Economic Chamber Act, which allows, if adopted, voluntary or freedom of business integration, which, within the framework of the National Party, we consider to be particularly meaningful for all those economic operators who are not satisfied with the operation of compulsory membership in the Institute of Economic Chamber. And secondly, the Veterinary Services Act, which is also supposed to lead to some degree of additional freedom in the field of veterinary services. However, as regards the proposal of some Members, namely the non-profit proposal to include a report on the Ombudsman at this meeting of the National Assembly, we must say, in the National Party, ladies and gentlemen, the rules of procedure which you now deny, you have adopted. You have told us what all the material must contain if it is to be included in the agenda item or to be considered at a meeting of the National Assembly. And, to put it bluntly, it's funny that today, when you're in a different situation, you deny your own ideas about law and order within this house. As part of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, we estimate that if, regardless of who was against the Rules of Procedure or the Rules of Procedure, everyone adheres to its principles, it would make sense, ladies and gentlemen of the United List and the Liberal Democracy, that you are at least as principled and as yourself the rules of the game that you have established in the National Assembly, you are also holding. The national party will support the agenda proposed for this meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u13	Thank you, Mr. Pechet. Mr. Milan Squeakl has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u14	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I will vote against what you put to the vote, i.e. the agenda, because I find that you are introducing a new method - this is a method of censorship. You said [[Quote]] that does not meet the conditions point of the report of the Ombudsman. Of course, you must first explain whether you are also amending the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in Article 272 which states that the National Assembly shall examine the report and adopt the recommendation referred to in Article 111 of this Rules of Procedure. The Commission, in which the ruling coalition has blocked, despite the necessity of enforcing the Constitutional Court decision, the adoption of any decision, may never reach a recommendation and then you will never put it on the agenda. Let's be honest! You yourself have decided that you will not put this on the agenda because, at the College of the President of the National Assembly on 11 February, it turned out that some members of the ruling coalition may as well -- otherwise, I do not know how it is with some who say they are not in the ruling coalition -- to vote for the Ombudsman's report to be classified and therefore voted on. So you decided to make your own decision. It's up to you. Formally speaking, however, our proposal is justified because the reasons for the extension arose after the reference. That is, the rapporteur of the National Assembly, which we received after the College meeting, listed and published the report of the home working body, and this was distributed. Therefore, we believe that there are all conditions, unless you have a new interpretation of Rule 272 of the Rules of Procedure. Mr President, I must vote against the agenda, although there are some important points here, because you are introducing a new practice that you are censoring, along with some professional services, when it is decided in this national assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u15	Thank you, Mr. Squeakle. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor to explain his voice. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u16	Thank you very much. I myself will support the proposed agenda for two reasons. It is most important to me - and I think that for those who will watch - the point of the proposal for the final budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2003, which shows a picture of the government's functioning in the previous term, when most ministries have not received a positive opinion from the Court of Auditors. I think a very thorough debate should be held on this. And of course we will do so, because such practice must no longer continue through Slovenian politics. Secondly, I must say that, with regard to what is now being said regarding the special report of the Ombudsman on the subject, this debate and this item on the agenda would be very happy. I also think that people, people in front of TV sets, would be very interested to see this point because they were watching it intensely. However, as a duty to rules, I must respect that the point does not comply with the rules of procedure, even though I was one of those who opposed the rules of procedure imposed on us by such a weight. But when it does, I think that this point would actually be one of the most interesting. Now, of course, there will be several reasons to discuss what you wanted to force with these heavy damages from the country where you wanted to drown that money. And I also know that you have organized a five-day post for this purpose at this time, because it is a time of fasting, but I don't think they are fasting out of religious feelings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u17	Thank you, Mr. Jerovska. Mr Borut Saiovic has the floor for explanation. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues! I will not support the agenda, even though I know it will be adopted. However, as far as I have read the Rules of Procedure as a young Member, I could say that, of course, these matters can be placed on the agenda under all these rules. But I'm afraid there's something else that's more about this than form is content. And that's what I'm afraid of being afraid of being afraid of the truth about human rights. That is why I will object to the proposal of the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u19	Thank you, Mr. Sayovic. Mr. Sok has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u20	Thank you for your word. Dear President, fellow Members, and Members of Parliament! I think we've talked so much about the deleted over the past four years that there's actually nothing more to add. We also had a referendum on this subject. As for the treatment itself, we will, of course, support the treatment in Novi Slovenije once the commission has done its work. When the Commission submits its report, completes its report and, of course, when this report is adopted by the Commission, the home labour body, and when it proposes appropriate conclusions to the National Assembly, we are also prepared to put this point on the agenda in New Slovenia. And if you want to talk about it again, I don't know which way to discuss it. Otherwise, I agree with that speaker who mentioned that the rules of procedure should be respected, because the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are a small constitution. We have repeatedly listened to the ruling coalition work and follow the rules of procedure. I don't think there's any reason for us to do anything different now. Business provisions should be respected, and as the President of the National Assembly said when the report is drawn up and the proposed decisions are taken, we will support this. Today, we will support the agenda as proposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u21	Thank you, Mr. Sok. She has the floor to explain Mrs Zalokar Orazem.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u22	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I will not support the agenda, because I think there is no reason why we should not deal with this Ombudsman's report today and that it is exclusively a matter of some kind, I would say, an incredible business manoeuvre that we or we are witnessing again or manoeuvres are one after another and, of course, the imagination of how to interpret the rules of procedure seems incredible to me. I have to say, I'm also seeing one major hypocrisy. About a year ago, we actually sat in this room all day and night talking about long and long. Now, of course, the purpose and the goal are achieved, the elections are over and, of course, deleted, we would like to sweep under the carpet and, in fact, say that there are no more problems in Slovenia. Therefore, of course, the way is also chosen and this topic is no longer allowed to be discussed. However, dear fellows, the problem is still here, it is unresolved, it has not disappeared and you will have to like it or not like to meet it.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u23	Thank you, Mrs. Orzam. Mr Rudolf Petan has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u24	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I support this agenda, and I also support the opinion that you have given, why this point that we are now talking about deleted, the Ombudsman's report on deleted, is not on the agenda. I would say that the rule of law also means respect for the rules of procedure, especially if we are in the national assembly. We have a code of conduct to respect him, not to violate him. If there's no way to deal with them, then they're gone. I can assure you, my fellow Members and colleagues, that it would be necessary for this report to be supported by me, I will be happy to support this item on the agenda when conditions are needed to do so. As far as I am concerned, you can also propose several times and we will support your opinion that we will be able to discuss this more than once. What people think about this has also been said in the referendum, so it is not necessary to put this on the agenda and break the rules of procedure at all costs, because this point is not the most important point for Slovenia, but it is necessary, and I agree, and you have my vote when the conditions are met. I would also say that I don't know where the idea was to abolish the Ombudsman's institution. I am not aware of this, but I am sure that it would be appropriate for the Ombudsman to apologize to the Slovenes and Slovenians when he stated before the cameras last year and compared Slovenia with Nazi Germany, there just before II. World War II. How incomprehensible, how difficult the words are, is now evident when some forces in Italy accuse us of all possible things from a period of fascism that is very similar to that of Germany. Therefore, I simply and simply do not understand that you, too, do not require the guardian to apologize. I certainly support such a agenda and I will vote in favour. I will also support it when the conditions for the Ombudsman's report to be placed on the agenda are laid down. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u25	Thank you for explaining your voice. We are moving to a vote on the agenda. We're voting. The vote is under way. There were 73 Members and Members present. It was 55 votes against 15. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against 15.]] The proposal was adopted. Mr. Anderlich, do you have a procedural proposal? Now you have your word. There are no procedural proposals during the vote. An explanation of vote is part of the voting phase. I take it that the agenda for the 3rd meeting of the assembly has been set. We're moving to 2. At its meeting on 7 January 2005, the President's Committee decided that the draft law on amendments and amendments to the law on public servants of the EPA 103 /4 should be considered following a reduced procedure, as proposed by the Government. During the five-day business period, a group of 19 Members, with first-signed Mr Mirano Ptræ, requested that, pursuant to Rule 21, paragraph 10 of the Rules of Procedure, the College decide on the decision of the national assembly. With regard to the College's decision to deal with that bill in a simplified manner, I give the floor to the representatives of the applicants of the request. Mr. Miran Run you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u26	Thank you very much. The signatories to the request are convinced that the decision on the shorter procedure of the colleges has been taken in contravention of the Rules of Procedure. The strict conditions are laid down in the Rules of Procedure because the short-term treatment of the law significantly simplifies the legislative procedure. It limits the debate only to the content of the amendments and the amendment of the law, particularly in the home working body. It gives Members and Members less opportunities for a comprehensive assessment of the validity of the law, since it does not allow for general discussion and brings the second and third readings together for one meeting. These facts need to be taken into account when assessing the meaning of the business provision that the reduced procedure is possible with less demanding changes and legislative additions. Therefore, it is not just and in particular the number of articles that are changing, but it is also primarily an intervention in the concept and objectives of the law that is changing. The proposed changes deeply and radically affect the concept of law itself. If implemented, the objectives and orientations of the Public Servants Act will be substantially changed. The bill substantially changes important objectives for the functioning of the rule of law in order to reduce the politicisation of the administration, narrows the number of executives whose appointment is politically conditional, and increases the independence, independence and high level of expertise of the administration, while the promotion of administrative workers as a career service is linked exclusively to high professionalism and professionalism. Since the politicisation of the administration with it is unacceptable, the law is unacceptable in content and should be dealt with on a regular basis so that the coalition can also re-evaluate its consequences. Notwithstanding the fact that the leadership of the National Assembly has already acknowledged its important procedural errors in the handling of this law and that we have reached one of the purposes of our request by its postponement to a March meeting, it is for principle reasons that we should decide on the law on a regular basis. We look forward to supporting our proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u27	Thank you, Mr. Run. Mrs Darja Lovtišar Bebler has also been reported for explanation. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u28	Thank you so much for saying that. A respected choir! In the LDS, we oppose that the proposal for a law on public servants should be dealt with on short notice for the following reasons. 142. Article 142 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provides that a proposal for a law may be dealt with by means of a reduced procedure in the event of less difficult amendments and amendments to the law. In the LDS, we do not deny that the amendment of the Law on Civil Servants changes only a few articles of the current law, but we note that the interpretation of this provision must take into account its quantitative and qualitative aspect. In this case, there is no doubt that changes affecting the fundamental purposes and objectives of the current law are depoliticisation of public administration. We therefore believe that, while only a few articles of the law are changing, there are more difficult changes to the law, which undoubtedly need substantial reflection. The new law deviates from the concept of public administration reform, with which we wanted to professionalise public administration and protect it from the harmful effects of political recruitment. The new law thus departs from the concept of political neutrality, whereby the heads of bodies in the composition, such as the police, customs, tax administration and others, run these bodies in accordance with the principle of professional autonomy and independent of the current authority. This also moves us away from the standards recommended by sigma experts. In LDS, we have opinions, which we are also reminded by the professional public, that the law will have anti-constitutional consequences. It contains non-constitutional solutions that violate the constitutional principle of confidence in the law and the principle of the prohibition of retroactive application of the rules. With the proposed solutions, the Government would intervene in the legal situations of individuals who have arisen in the past at the time of the original regulation or in their legitimate legal expectations, without a valid and public interest for a legitimate reason. Therefore, we believe that the National Assembly must carefully consider the consequences, which means that it is not a matter of haste. In the short term, the second and third proceedings are held at the same meeting. In the LDS, we want the National Assembly to deal with the law on a regular basis, allowing Members to have a general debate on the proposal for a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u29	Thank you, Mrs. Lavtiger Bebler. Since there is no discussion and explanation of vote following the Rules of Procedure, I propose to the assembly that it decide on the following decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Civil Servants shall be considered following a reduced procedure. We're voting! 79 Members and Members are present. The vote was 49 to 30. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 30.]] The proposal was adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I'm adjourning the session. We'll continue at 3 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u30	Dear Members and honourable Members! Dear ministers, Prime Minister, Mr. Janez Janša! We're moving on to one. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - QUESTIONS FROM THE MISSIONS AND THE CONCERNERS. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received 34 Members and Members in writing within the time limit. The order of business shall be laid down on the basis of an agreement with the heads of the parliamentary groups and in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 245 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The first three questions raised by members of the opposition and the Member of the ruling coalition's question to the Member of Parliament will be answered by the Prime Minister. Members who have asked two questions will ask the second question after all the Members who have been notified ask one question. Members shall have 3 minutes to ask the question. The Prime Minister, the Minister or the Secretary-General of the Government shall reply to the question within 5 minutes, as well as if the question has been raised by several ministers. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask an additional question. I ask Members to pay attention to this. The Member shall provide an explanation of the request to supplement the reply within 2 minutes. However, the response may be completed for a maximum of 3 minutes. With regard to the announcement of the questions sent, I would like to inform you that Member Zmigo Jelinčič has asked the Prime Minister two questions. Since this would make it impossible to raise a question with the representative of the second parliamentary group, Mr Zmago Jelinčič asked the Minister of Finance a second question. Member Rudolf Petan addressed to the Minister of Justice a question that did not belong in the Minister's field of work. That is why Mr Rudolf Petan withdrew the question. On this agenda item, the following ministers apologized for today: Dr Dimitrij Rupel, Minister for Foreign Affairs, for participating in the EU General Affairs and External Relations Council in Brussels, Mr Milan Zver, Minister for Education and Sport, for participating in the Education, Youth and Culture Council in Brussels, Mr Mag. Janez Drobnič, Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, because of the disease and Mr Mag. Andrej Vizjak, Minister of Economy, because of the disease. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised, the Prime Minister, the Minister or the Secretary-General must provide him with a written reply within 30 days, which will be published in a bulletin of the National Assembly. A Member who has asked a question that has not been answered may indicate that he insists on an oral answer. In this case, I will place the question at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. You have received a review of the questions sent and initiatives which have not yet been answered in the course of business. We are moving on to a presentation of the questions sent. As has already been said, the first four questions will be answered by Prime Minister Janez Janša. The first question will be raised by Mr Only Bevk, the United List of Social Democrats. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u31	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Your Honor, Mr. Prime Minister! Slovenia has taken over the presidency of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe this year and is also preparing to lead the European Union, remove the Schengen border and adopt a common European currency. However, with these foreign policy successes, we have obviously ignored the regulation of relations with neighbouring countries. The events we have witnessed in the past period are a clear indication that the strategic interests of our neighbours in the north-west and east have not changed, so the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will have to correct priorities in foreign policy and strengthen our interests. The foundation of good neighbourly relations is also an awareness of the common past. From the beginning, the Italian government had a very negative relationship with the Paris Peace Treaty of 1947, losing much of the territory it had acquired through a criminal rapal treaty. In fact, Italy never wanted to settle with its imperialistic and fascist past. The statement by the President of the Austrian Parliament that the discussion on the Slovenian National Minority cannot be conducted on the legal basis of the Austrian State Treaty and that this is not a treaty between the countries is contrary to historical facts and international law. Its 7th most comprehensive article regulates the rights of the Slovenian national minority in Koroška and Stajerska. In both cases, it is an attempt to revise history or undermine the foundations on which modern European regulation was built after World War II. In the UK Group of Social Democrats: What will the government do in an obvious attempt to revise history or two fundamental peace treaties by some high-ranking politicians of the ruling coalition in Italy and Austria? We ask her whether, at the expected visit of the Italian Foreign Minister and Deputy Prime Minister of the Government, she will request the joint and official publication of the report of the Slovenian-Italian Historical Commission, an appropriate gesture to justify the act of her predecessor to the Slovenian people and to ensure the consistent implementation of the comprehensive protection minority law. We also ask the Slovenian Government when official procedures will be initiated to notify the succession of the Austrian State Treaty or the Austrian Treaty to the Russian Government as depositary. I thank the President very much for his reply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u32	Thank you. Mr President of the Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u33	First of all, thank you for the question, honourable Mr Bevk. On the first part of the question, I can say that so far only a handful of politicians, wherever they have acted, under whatever flag they have acted, have never been able to review history, and for a limited time this has succeeded in some totalitarian regimes with different omens. You are so afraid that only some politicians will be able to review history, it is not. Nevertheless, history is, of course, a sensitive thing, because events in the past always affect the future, the present and the future, and it must be taken seriously. I don't know exactly which statements you think about when it comes to the neighbouring country of Italy, but there was a decision in the Italian Parliament to announce the Day of Remembrance of their compatriots who, in their opinion, suffered after World War II. This decision was taken practically by consensus in the Italian Parliament, with the same zeal that the parties of the National Alliance voted in favour of this decision as the renewed communists, making it very difficult to prescribe this only one political option. And in principle, each country has the right to recall the sufferings of its fellow countrymen, especially when it comes to a larger number. What Slovenia needs to stress very strongly in this case is, of course, that history is not something that begins on a certain date that someone sets as he would like, in this particular case Slovenia must not forget the suffering of especially coastal Slovenians in a few decades under fascism. The fact is, there was a lot going on between II. World War II. World war, which has its roots in these events and that only a fragment of history, which someone then puts on a state level, makes it a state holiday, etc., can also represent manipulation. However, it must be equally strong to say that a democratic Slovenian state will never defend any crimes, irrespective of the ideological foreshadow that is set before criminal conduct, and that many crimes must be placed at its own doorstep in this regard. With regard to the visit of the Italian Foreign Minister, the date has not yet been exactly set, we expect that, in addition to the other topics to be opened before this visit, there will be a visit by one of the European Union's foreign ministers, which we are working with, of course, the issue of the implementation of the protection law for the Slovenian minority, which is in fact a key topic at this time. The law was adopted four years ago and is largely a dead letter on paper. This is what the Slovenian government is pointing out. She pointed to this - the question, if decisive enough - also our predecessor, we will not go into the history of the adoption of this law now, but the fact is that if the law is not implemented, if the dead letter is on paper, it is a problem and Slovenia is obliged to point out this. At the same time, the Slovenian government warns that we can adequately solve or influence the problems of our minority or our minorities in substitution, only if relations between countries are good if they develop in the spirit of good neighbourly action, respect for international treaties and, of course, legislation adopted by each country itself. Those who think that overly harshness can have a bearing on the resolution of these issues are mistaken. Any negative or acute atmosphere in the end is most damaging to just a minority, just those who want to protect them and need to be aware of it. A third question was also raised, and it is likely that colleague Bevk will take advantage of the opportunity to further explain the question and then I will answer the third question.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u34	Thank you, President. Mr. Bevk, would you like an additional explanation?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u35	Thank you, Mr. President. The Slovenian national communities in Italy and Austria are, of course, an important bridge of integration and cooperation between countries. You yourself, Mr President, said that the adoption of a roof law was just a letter on paper. Representatives of two roof organisations say that the problem is a lack of political will, which makes it impossible for a minority to become part of society and co-create the atmosphere between Slovenia and Italy. However, the red thread of these irregular relations is also a constant problem in the financing of the Slovenian institutions by the Italian State. This time there is a permanent Slovenian theatre in Trieste. I wonder if we will lose the most important Slovenian cultural institution in place after the Slovenian Bank in Trieste? In order to allow you to continue to answer the third question, I would also like to say that the European Commission has expressed, inter alia, the following opinion in its report on Austria against racism and intolerance in the Council of Europe. I quote: "Special concern about the hostile atmosphere towards the Slovenian minority in Koroskem," the European Commission said, and further quote, "that it is an open rejection of the execution of the judgment of the Austrian Constitutional Court concerning the granting of certain rights to the said minority." Here, of course, is the right to bilingual local inscriptions and the official use of Slovenian, which is also reflected in Article 7 of the Austrian State Treaty, or the Austrian Treaty. I am therefore interested in the following: How does the Republic of Slovenia intend to ensure a political solution to the problem with both neighbours? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u36	Thank you, Mr. Bevk. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u37	As far as our minority in Italy is concerned, however, what has been said must be added that there have been some positive developments in recent times. This is mainly about changing the situation or addressing our minority at the country level. It is very likely that, with the decision of the Furlania-Julia National Parliament in the country statute, the Slovenian minority will receive a direct representation for the first time, which will unfortunately only be possible to implement once both Italian parliaments have confirmed this statute. But that gesture already means something's moving. In our view, it would be very good to have a solution to the direct representation of the Slovenian minority in Austria's Koroška within the same framework. This would certainly mean a big step forward at that time. And as you know, the Slovenian minority has been working on this with the support of Slovenia for some time. The problem of financing Slovenian organisations in place, in Italy, is partly improving due to this positive attitude at the country level. At national level, however, the problem is still open. Slovenia has not previously closed its eyes and will also point out this to the state government in Rome. Unfortunately, these problems are not from last year or a few days ago, but they last some years, some decades. And it cannot be expected that within two months the new Slovenian government will save everything that another government could not in 12 years before. With regard to the succession under the Austrian State Treaty or under the State Treaty in Austria, it is undeniable that Slovenia is one of the legal successors of the former SFRJ. Last but not least, we are proving that we are paying most of the former Yugoslav debts. That's totally indisputable. We also exercise our right of succession in these successful negotiations. This is all internationally recognized. There is no dilemma in this regard. Nor can a statement of one or the other policy change these facts. This Treaty would apply because it is an international treaty, even if Slovenia did not exist at all. Article 7, which also refers to the protection of the Slovenian minority in the Austrian territory, binds this country, regardless of whether these successors are 10 or 12, in a legal sense, the matter is not changed. Why Slovenia did not formally submit a note [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] for the recognition of inheritance is a very long and old question. I wonder why the previous governments haven't done it in 12 years if this thing is so simple. On the basis of the explanations provided by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on the committee responsible, it is quite clear that the round of signatories is closed [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u38	Mr President, if you'll just finish your thought.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u39	In the case of the Czech Republic, which has submitted this note, there is now a decision to make. [[...]] If this decision is positive, if any interpretation is found, I do not see any obstacles that Slovenia does not. Until this is examined, as the Committee on International Relations has also instructed us, the answer is the same as that of all previous governments.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u40	Thank you. The next one will be to the Prime Minister, yes, please, Mr Bevk. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u41	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I thank the Prime Minister for his reply, but I am nevertheless procedurally proposing that, on the basis of the second paragraph of Article 246 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia at the next meeting of the National Assembly, we hold discussions on the government's response, in particular with regard to the issue of the Slovenian national community in neighbouring countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u42	Thank you, Mr. Bevk. We will vote on the proposal tomorrow at the time of the vote. The next Prime Minister will be asked a question by Mr Victory Jelinčič Nobleni, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u43	Thank you so much for saying that. When I raised the question, I did not know that the government would already take a decision on support, an initiative that I had put in place to build a European aviation museum in Maribor. I must say that I was pleasantly surprised, because it took the previous government three years not to rush to do so, and that this initiative or this matter has almost slipped away from us, because the interest in the European Aviation Museum is extremely great both in French and on the German side. It is so that I must commend the current government, which has overlooked this importance and has confirmed my initiative. In 15 days she will prepare an organisational group and in this regard I ask the Prime Minister: Since this was mainly my work in Europe, in the Western European Union Assembly and also in other organisations, whether I will be part of this [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] [[Thank you very much, thank you very much Mr. Anderlich, because then you can say something else.]] or if I'm in this organizational group? I know that the gentlemen of the Liberal Democracy are in a lot of pain because they did not do it themselves, because this would certainly bring them some political points before the elections, but then they were full of themselves and were unable to get to the normal branches. It must be said that this museum, when built, will employ about 450 workers directly, about 2,500 in the vicinity, so that it would not even talk about the impact it will have on the tourist offer in Maribor, in the area, in Styria. In short, the matter is extremely important. I'm sure he'll be building for a long time. After all, the Sydney opera has been built for 14 years and whoever says Australia today remembers the Sydney opera. I believe that this museum will be the same and will also bear the name of Slovenia around the world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u44	Thank you, Mr. Jelinčich. Please, the Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u45	Thank you for asking. In some ways, the government has already answered this question or initiative in writing because it has also been mediated in writing. The initiative looks very attractive. Undoubtedly, Slovenia has the right location for such a museum. If they hold to the arguments in this initiative that it is possible to engage European funds for this, we see no reason against or any reason not to go into the realization of this initiative. As has already been said, the government will form a group whose composition will be proposed by the ministries that will check whether they hold these conditions and then adopt an operational preparation plan for the implementation of this initiative. Anyone who is prepared to contribute in any way to the realization of the initiative is welcome in this group, in my view.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u46	Thank you, Mr. President. The next one will ask the Prime Minister a question, Mr Mag. Anton Rop. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u47	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister! Perhaps it would be appropriate to split this point a second time in order to commend the government on one part of the opposition and the normal point of the questions sent. Thus, we would not mix these two so that those who wish to praise the government would have the opportunity to do so, as they do all the time and it is possible; we are also after this "unicum" in Slovenia, obviously. I would like to ask the Prime Minister myself a question regarding the programme. Mr President, at the press conference, you presented the normative part of the government's 2005 programme. As usual, you have highlighted two important objectives in this part: one is taking over the euro and the other is lower inflation. Of course, in order to assess the public, not least of all of us in the National Assembly, whether it is possible or not, it is imperative to see the government's programme, not only the normative part, but the whole government programme, and in particular the measures envisaged by the government. It's not like that. There is no programme, there is no action, there is no assessment of the financial implications; it is only a list of laws and sub-laws that they have apparently drawn up by individual ministries. So I would like to ask some questions that are important to us. I think seven or eight days ago you posted on the government's office's website a draft programme that looked like a programme. Unfortunately, you have withdrawn this program immediately. After two days, the website is no longer published. We somehow managed to read this text to a certain extent, and we found too many inconsistencies in this program. Now he's gone. He's gone. I want to know: where did you withdraw this program and replace it only with a normative work? First of all, why don't you go public with him? Do you ever intend to present it, or will we only see individual measures that will take place under individual laws? And the fourth time. In the media, we have observed that in the last month you have ordered a review of all cases of obtants who, under the 1964 Citizenship Act, voluntarily decided to take over Italian citizenship and moved to Italy. With this, you have opened a problem that I believe is solved with Italy and that it is resolved as far as property claims are concerned and that this is not a problem for the whole country. Of course, I hope this isn't part of the program that you've set yourself up with, but it's not published. So, of course, why did you do it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u48	Thank you, Mr. Rope. Although there are also some new questions that have not been announced. However, Mr Prime Minister, you can answer anything you want.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u49	Of course, I will be happy to answer these questions. I will not protest for the first five minutes, as we have seen in the previous term, even though the question of taking over the euro has been raised. But my opinion remains the same as before when we were in the opposition: parliamentary issues and initiatives, when it comes to the direct question of the government, can be without written announcements. If you change the rules of procedure, it won't bother me. As far as the objectives of the government and the government programme are concerned, it is clear that it is still necessary to reiterate for a decade that the government programme is enshrined in a coalition agreement coordinated by coalition partners. And what the government has done with the 2005 programme this year is to operationalise that part of the coalition treaty that we believe can be implemented in 2005. Now, apparently, the resources that the current opposition has in the government secretariat are not always working well, so I don't know what should be published, and that is no longer. What occurs during the working phase of the preparation of certain regulations or programmes is on the websites for as long as a phase lasts. From the very beginning, we have announced that this time the government will draw up a comprehensive normative programme, which it will be able to do as soon as possible at the beginning of the year. I hope that in other years of the mandate we will be able to do so in early January or in December, and that this part concerning other bodies, in this case in particular the National Assembly, will be forwarded to these institutions as soon as possible. Thus, for the entire year, the National Assembly will also receive a list of proposals for laws and other acts which the National Assembly intends to submit this year, so that planning for this High Legislative Assembly will also be easier and work will be better planned. In this regard, I must say that we regret that the opposition has prevented the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, which makes it possible for the directors of the Directorates to operate at meetings of the working bodies, because it will simply be impossible to carry out the procedure effectively without the directors of the Directorates, which are governed by the law that you have adopted, the area in question, participating in meetings of the working bodies. Ministers and secretaries of state are a large part of their time either abroad - especially many coordinations in Brussels, government meetings, one day of committee meetings. It's impossible to double them, so I really don't know why this decision was made. This will certainly not contribute to any greater efficiency. As far as the financial framework is concerned, if you don't know. At the moment, the government is using the single financial framework that exists, which is the 2005 budget, which has already been adopted in the previous mandate, until this budget is rebalanced, all the financial frameworks under which we plan to adopt it, because they cannot be different either. At the time of the rebalancing, the government may try to tighten some of the priorities of the coalition contract, which will be possible in relation to a given situation, but until the balance sheet is adopted, but the response to the public financial framework or the financial implications is always the same: this is the 2005 budget, all ministries are working and planning under this budget, otherwise this cannot be the case. With regard to the fourth question, I must say that the Government has not ordered any lists or checks concerning optantes, as has been said. It is easy to verify the state of citizenship under the '60s law, under which a certain number of cases are open, and we would like to know how much more of this can possibly occur. The specific case that was triggered bears the Slovenian name and surname and not the Italian one, so I don't know why it's about optants. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] [[.....]] [[Incomprehensible.]] This is not only done in administrative units on the Slovenian coast, but more broadly and in the middle of the year, when this process is completed, of course we will also inform the National Assembly of the situation. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u50	Thank you, Mr. President. Does the Member want an additional explanation? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u51	First. You yourself spoke when you presented the coalition contract, that this would be achieved, as long as the first objective was achieved, and that the first objective, namely taking over the euro, should be subordinated to the other objectives. Now you have said that you have included all other objectives in your programme and, of course, the euro. One does not go along and means that one of these goals will not be realized or that one does not know what is what a government programme really is. So, financially, you have said that you will evaluate the programme and implement it to the end in the budget rebalancing, of course, the question is whether you will first have a budget balance and will define financial priorities or whether this package of laws and financial consequences will first be implemented through changes of laws, and then you will be working on a balance sheet. So we're just going to find out later what the financial implications are in the balance sheet itself. Third time. As far as the Directors of Directorates are concerned, they can operate on all committees and will continue to work and will not follow what you have said. Fourth time. At the press conference, you answered the question why you ordered a review of all cases of optants, that you knew nothing about it. The next day, Mr Virant denied you and said that you had ordered this verification and then you replied yourself that you had ordered such an examination, that you had many similar orders and signatures every day and you probably did not know what you were signing. One more thing. We have heard a lawyer in this particular case and we have heard that his assessment is that the financial obligations under this heading are for 500 billion Slovenian tolars. Of course, there are so many of these obligations that we recognize the possibility that such obligations exist. This is not because we solved the problems with Italy with the Paris Agreement [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] And, of course, with the winter agreements.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u52	Thank you, Mr. Rope. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u53	The last thing that was said, of course, is clear to everyone. Slovenia is a property problem - those that have been opted for from Slovenian territory after II. World War II - saved by paying in full on a special account, in accordance with the agreement and for us this issue is concluded. This is also why this question has nothing to do with the optants directly. At the press conference, the question was: Did the government order administrative units to collect data on optants? The government didn't order that. I only requested data from the Ministry of the Interior on the basis of a letter from the citizen and then began to collect data. And, as has already been said, the problem concerns not only the citizens who were then opted for from the Slovenian territory. As far as the financial framework is concerned, I really do not know how it would be possible to act differently than in the framework of the acts adopted and to take into account the balance that has not yet been drawn. You know what the preparation process is. No government has prepared a balance within one month, nor can it. As long as the financial framework is as adopted, it must be taken into account and it is clear in advance that it will need to be corrected. But we don't want him on our noses. There are a lot of things missing in the 2005 budget, I must say that the planning was bad. Before the elections, there was much talk about 10 billion, such as the government will pay for a new investment in the New Town Revoz. The 2005 budget should pay 3 billion, these 3 billion are not and have never been planned, so that we will have to follow new priorities eventually with the rebalancing, correct old mistakes, promises and moves that have been made very quickly, without actually having a basis in public financial planning or in budgetary planning. It is also very uncertain to predict the results of the changes to tax legislation adopted last year. That was some kind of risk. The assessments that were made at the time when the legislation was adopted were corrected after that, but the elections were closer. It will be necessary to wait a few months before we see what trends will be like and before we know exactly what is required in the fiscal area.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u54	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Cyril Testen will be asked by the next Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u55	Honourable Prime Minister, Honourable Ministers, President of Parliament, Members and Members of Parliament! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has decided to publish a public invitation to tender for the production of passports and to suspend the use of the sticker for cars. On the basis of this decision, the contract with Cetis and Mirage was terminated. I ask the Prime Minister: How is it possible that so far these transactions have been awarded without a call for tender or where is the legal basis for such conduct? I further ask: How much money has been paid to both companies for business without a call for tender? And the third question to the Prime Minister: When did the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or the competent Ministry start working with Mirage and on what basis? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u56	President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u57	Thank you so much for asking. Why the government has issued public tenders for transactions that are extremely large and where it would be normal from the very beginning to be issued on the basis of public tenders, it is probably not necessary to determine specifically - this is a normal way of doing so. It was abnormal what's been going on so far. The story dates back to the 1990s when a public invitation to tender or tender for the production of identity cards was issued. At that time, Celje company Cetis won this competition with great advantage. However, this contract was not awarded to this company, but half of the order was obtained at the pressure of the then Minister of the Interior without a call for tender by the New Town company Mirage. There is documentation that shows how this happened and that should probably be dealt with by other authorities. In order to avoid similar complications in the future - well, we all know that Cetis is qualified for such operations. At the time when, without an invitation to tender, Mirage had five employees and had no opportunity to produce personal cards up to half the amount, it did not receive this invitation to tender. Those who did so wanted to prevent the possibility of another competition from spoiling the advance plans. Therefore, I think that in 2001 an interesting step was taken when the then government amended the regulation on the purchase of arms and military equipment, by adding the text to a certain article in this Regulation, so that this regulation now reads: "The purchase of military equipment, weapons, travel documents and car stickers does not require public invitations". On this basis, the transactions were then awarded without public tender. Businesses were huge. Just to print unnecessary car stickers, which I hope we will now abolish, because they had no other function than to certify what was previously written in a traffic permit, taxpayers have deducted in a few years 5 billion Slovenian tolls for passports much more. It is now difficult to say whether they are too expensive or not; since there was no invitation to tender, we do not know what kind of competition it was, we do not know whether it would be possible to make it cheaper. All we know is that the company that had five employees at the beginning of this business has grown tremendously, that the owners have become enormously rich, that they are now lending their aircraft even to the ministries and governments, because they do not have their own transports. So the matter is unknowingly interesting. The government has decided to stop this story by removing the stickers because they are unnecessary. It was a project with which someone wanted to make a lot of money and draw billions out of taxpayers’ pockets, who eventually pay for everything. In the case of passports, Slovenia is now before a decision which is still common, since the world or Europe passes on to new passports to start printing new passports, and from this point of view the old contract has also been terminated, although this was not easy, since in fact, on both sides of the contract, almost one and the same person, or one who negotiated on the government side for this contract, was the lawyer of this company, with whom the contract was signed and, apparently, now again. So, I don't know, the lawyers said that it was a very rare specimen of such a contract and that it should be placed within the framework of future generations for the Faculty of Law. However, in the short term, all elements of the invitation to tender for new passports will be prepared and those tenderers who will be the cheapest will win this call. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u58	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Testen, would you like a refill?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u59	I'd like to ask you a few more questions. I didn't get a completely specific answer to this second part if you had numbers. How much was paid to the companies? I'm also wondering if you might know about the price of the passport, how much will it cost?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u60	Now, for the stickers, I don't have the exact number for the passports. In view of the fact that it is not exactly known how many old passports will be produced, these agreements are now under way on how this unfortunate story should end, so that as little damage as possible. However, if it was for 5 billion stickers, it was for passports, of course, for significantly larger transactions; by allowing the stickers to say peacefully that they were unnecessary funds, the passports now, whatever I say about the assessment, could also be unfair because there was no invitation to tender. We do not know how much passports would stand if they were competition, I can only say what is logical, that if there is an invitation to tender and there are more tenderers, the product is usually either a product or a price or a service is cheaper than if it is only one and if someone distributes it arbitrarily. With regard to future passports, more than 100 euros have appeared in the press as much as it would cost. According to our assumption, a new passport, which will not be required, says the old ones will still apply, whoever wants to travel to countries where biometric protection is needed will be able to have a new one. We have partly compared these prices to prices that are in countries where they have already calculated this and where they are already producing these passports. According to these comparisons, it is still easy to say that new passports can be cheaper than old ones, even though they will have a higher level of protection. Of course, it is difficult to say in advance how much competition there will be and which service providers will come forward. Once this call for new passports has been made, it will also be possible to make a simple comparison with those prices currently in force and see whether they have been real or excessive and on this basis the government will probably also decide whether to initiate any back-up procedures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u61	Thank you, Mr. President. Since Dr Milan Zver is not present or apologized for his participation in Brussels, I ask Mr Aleš Gulic, does he still want to ask a question? Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u62	Dear Mr President, esteemed colleagues, colleagues, Prime Minister, ministers! My question is very personal for Minister Milan Beast. I'll put it up because I'm counting on it to get an answer at the next session. That is, we know of his visit to the great congregation, which was later very politicized in the media. Given that it has been three weeks since then, and that "this soup has cooled down" and that it can be more rational to answer the questions raised then, I expect, of course, that the consideration of one month will then be large enough. I would like to receive from him the comment of this politicization of his visit to the congregation of the Kingdom, of course, including: Who invited him? Why did he go there? How did this whole thing happen back then? What does it look like today or what it will look like in a month? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u63	Thank you, Mr. Gulic. He is also not present or apologized to the Magi. Janez Drobnič, Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs. Mr. Matjaž Han, does he still want to ask a question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u64	Given that it is a beautiful day today, that it is snowing and that children can enjoy the snow, but this snow will collapse, and I am most concerned that the promises made by the government will be broken during the pre-election period. I hope not all have forgotten the promise of an increase in the pensioner's recreational allowance of $10,000. In order to create confusion, Minister Drobnič delayed the payment of the withdrawal of the recreational allowance of 10,000 tolls. People are supposed to be confused and no longer know whether it's an advance or an increase. The attempt, unfortunately, failed. The Assembly of the Pension and Disability Insurance Institute assessed Minister Drobnič with his proposal with a negative assessment and rejected his proposal. The pensioners informed the minister that they had been fighting too long to pay the recreational allowance in a single amount and would not allow the minister to just destroy their work. He was also informed that unfortunately they could not agree to political populism, which would raise the minister's "rating". Those people who are not completely complacent are, of course, always open to proposals and initiatives. Unfortunately, there was no listening to initiatives and proposals in this particular case. The Minister has made a political effort to resolve the problem and has first taken on the Director-General, Mr Friend. He probably thought that he would intimidate the other members and members of the Governing Board and the Assembly of the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance. Instead of dealing substantively with the problem of paying off the extra recreational allowance for pensioners, he decided to cut off all contacts with the assembly authorities until new representatives were elected to the authorities and, apparently, until they were politically compatible. The practice it introduces is worrying, so I ask Mr Drobnič: Has Minister Janez Drobnič really given up his dialogue or any communication with the institution until the management board, the Assembly and the Director General of the Pension and Disability Insurance Institute are replaced in mid-May? I also wonder: Will it not be possible to make decisions that are so important to the pensioners by then? However, I certainly wish Mr Petty Officer of sound health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u65	Thank you, Mr. Han. Magus, too. Andrej Vizjak, Minister of Economy, apologized. I ask Mr Pojbič, will he still ask the question? Yes, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u66	Mr President of the National Assembly, distinguished ministerial assembly, colleagues and colleagues. I come from northeastern Styria, where unemployment is among the highest in Slovenia. These are the municipalities of Kunguta, Pesnica, Šentilj, Svet Ana, which are strongly tied to the tomato horse in the paper industry, Paloma, which has a 100-year tradition and has given bread to over 2,200 employees at the best times of its operation. Today Paloma employs half the workers, which is about 1,200 workers. The data listed are of concern and therefore these issues relate in particular to how to protect the remaining jobs and thus to ensure social security and also to the further development of this environment. Paloma is one of the rare paper mills that operates under the auspices of the State through the capital company and the compensation fund, which owns the majority equity share. In the past, poor staffing and the excessive influence of society's policies have led to a very difficult financial and human resources situation so that the company is no longer able to cope with competition. The paper processing industry is an intensive industry if viewed as a producer or as an exporter. Paper industry products are highly consumer-oriented and consumption of these products is steadily increasing. The existence of jobs in companies and their development today depend largely on the skills and skills of management. The timely response to the news and the possibility of linking with strategic partners can stabilise society and jobs in the long term and enable further growth and development. Paloma is in trouble today, and I cannot accept the fact that Paloma can be maintained either alone or at the expense of the dismissal of workers, which is unacceptable and unacceptable for all who live and work in this region for a better future, for the further development of this Styria region. I ask the minister: Does the government or the ministry have a paper industry rescue programme? Will the State, as the indirect owner, also take direct action to address this problem? Will it give priority to personnel who will know the paper industry - and above all, we must protect it from failure and thus enable its development in relation to the strategic partner - to make it competitive? Because the Minister, gentlemen mag. Andrej Vizjak, because of the disease, he is not present and he cannot answer me here, and I am satisfied with the written answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u67	Thank you, Mr. Pojbich. Mr Andre Bajuk, Minister of Finance, will be asked a question by Mr Milan Cvikl. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u68	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr Minister, Members and Members of Parliament. Everything since the launch of the new government, especially in recent days, there has been much discussion in the public about the government's priorities or the so-called government programme this year. At the same time, we hear that an important strategic economic council is meeting and a special working group is being set up at the Ministry of Finance to deal with tax reform. This year, it is heard that it has prepared reforms and then, I suppose, together with the Strategic Council, it will undertake tax reform. As Minister of Finance of this Government, can you make a public assurance that the tax reform you are preparing will be neutral on the income side? Let me put it this way: two questions. The first is: What will be the level of available income, the pay after this reform, the wages that we bring home? Let me just say that as a result of such critical changes to the Income Act and due to the increased escalation agreed in the Social Agreement, this year the average wage would increase by €800 per year. Another question in this regard is: What will be the level of income from which we pay teachers, university professors, public servants, provide social transfers and allow solidarity financing of pensions and health insurance? Rapid calculations would show that in your case, the Minister would pay if a single tax rate of average income were introduced, it would significantly increase - from about 600,000 tolars to about 900,000 tolars. For people with the lowest wages, this would not be the case, but you, along with social transfers, would remain as low as nine times, at about 100,000 tolars. What happens to the average wage depends on how you act. Will you, as proposed in the New Slovenia programme before the elections, reduce the level of public spending to the level of Slovakia or any South American country, that is about 35% of gross domestic product? [[That, by the way, would require a halvation of the pension allowance and the health allowance.]] Or will you still maintain funding for teachers, university professors, public servants, social transfers under the state budget? The coalition contract and media reports make it clear that you are preparing a cedural approach to taxation of certain revenues, so you are taking them from the universal system. So can you make public, as Minister of Finance of this Government, that the tax reform will be neutral on the income side and that it will not significantly increase the spread in Slovenia? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u69	Thank you, Mr. Squeakle. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much for your question. The essence of your question is well known not only to you, but also to the entire Slovenian public, that the government has appointed an expert group on the proposal of the Minister for Finance, who plays a key role in reviewing and correcting the existing tax legislation, with the aim of ensuring greater economic neutrality of the tax system towards business and investment decisions, greater competitiveness of our economy and ensuring the equal treatment of taxpayers in the same income situation, while at the same time pursuing social policy objectives. The task of this group has been clearly exposed, and this is to follow the strategic direction of the coalition contract and the government's operational direction in the field of taxes and public finances, propose revisions to the tax rules that will lead to these objectives, and to examine the critical comments of the professional public on the shortcomings identified in the current regime. The Section has already met, not once, but repeatedly, and agreed, at its first meeting, on a proposal from the Minister, for its next starting point in its work - and here is a key part of the answer to your questions: equal tax treatment of taxpayers in the same income situation, income-neutral changes in revenue for the budget. I think it must be clear to everyone that this is not only some will of this government, but an inevitable consequence of the convergence programme and the decision made by Slovenia last year when we decided as a state to enter the euro area. We must therefore carry out such a tax reform that will actually enable all these objectives, while at the same time maintaining itself within the framework of very serious and difficult fiscal discipline. As far as your question of cedularity is concerned with certain revenues yes, in the Income Act this section will also examine this and we believe that this is of great importance mainly for the following reasons. It is crucial in these matters that, when we talk about taxes in this increasingly globalised world today, we must be aware that there is already some type of competitiveness in the tax area and that one country cannot afford such or different decisions in this area if it achieves only that our capital will be poured out to others, to other neighbouring countries where tax legislation is more agreeable or friendly to them. This is certainly true of the capital gains that you have raised in your written question, which has in fact been the case since this National Assembly in its previous composition adopted this decision on 50% capital profit tax, which has in fact already caused capital outflows, as you all know, in the last months of 2004. Otherwise, the proposal put forward by the government to this national assembly, and it has also been accepted in a new constitution, to tax capital gains of 200%, will certainly have greater and better consequences as regards public revenues, precisely because if we compare this with what we had in the past, when we have barely reached 100 million tolars in the last three or four years. Of course, this is impossible to ensure because the decision when someone sells their share is not a national decision, but any private one who decides to do so. Well, I am surprised, however, that you have raised the question of the spread in Slovenian, from the same political circles that you have had scissors and canvas in your hands over the decades, and have quietly accepted the fact that in marriage we actually had an effective measure of only 12%. Surely this government will advocate a more balanced tax than we have in the past. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u71	Thank you, Minister. Does the Member wish to supplement the reply further? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u72	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary, for your explanation. I'm glad you'll follow these principles. In this regard, I would like to raise a question. They say that you will advocate that the same tax burden on equal incomes will apply. In this regard, I wonder how you will respond to the demands of students who have now proposed to change this tax burden in the same income, of course, probably also because some of the richest ones have been taxed less? Secondly, I am pleased that you have said that what you are proposing will be income-neutral for the state budget, but at the same time you immediately said that you want to make a tax system that will be more pleasant, more friendly and follow a competitive environment. In some relatively less distant countries, this tax burden is lower. In this regard, I would like to ask: Will you follow the proposals of the Strategic Economic Council, which proposes the introduction, to consider the introduction of a single tax rate? Of course, in this case you will not be able to prevent an increase in social exclusion. Let me tell you, Mr Minister, that the past governments have put a great deal of emphasis on reducing social exclusion through the provision of social transfers, so out of about 350 billion and so many billions of income raised, about 200, 250 billion are earmarked for social transfers to promote births and other forms of social assistance. These two just don't go together. If you want to make a nicer, more pleasant system, then you will follow some countries that are more South American. But if you follow the principle of equal tax restrictions on the same income, then you have to say to the students, "No." [[....]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] If I can get two more answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u73	Thank you, Mr. Squeakle. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u74	In fact, making our tax legislation more friendly or less complicated is not a complicated job, because it is more complicated and unkinder than we have adopted since the previous government, but it is difficult to invent. I'd say when you first asked me the question that you were just talking on the basis of some quick calculations. I would suggest that, as far as this is concerned, do not make quick calculations and that it is better to take a closer look before you ask such a question. As for the proposal of the expert council, I think you've misunderstood again. For all I know, the professional world has decided to study and not to be afraid of it. There is nothing wrong with studying or analysing in Slovenia what would actually happen in our tax system, if we really introduced either the same or the same version as other countries introduce it, as regards the uniform rate of tax. I'm not afraid of that. The consequences will be known. And rather than debate on the basis of fast calculations, we will have a smart analysis, and this will finally contribute to a better part of this national assembly, which will certainly have to adopt such legislation, no matter what proposal it comes up with. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u75	Thank you, Minister. Mr Ivan Žagar, Minister without a licence in charge of local self-government and regional policy, will be asked a question by Mr Ferri Horvat. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u76	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues! Slovenia is one of the few, if not the only, countries within the European Union and certainly the only, among neighbours who do not have a regional organisation of administrative and self-government, with the exception of statistical regions. With all the positive effects of the local community initiative, I think this is a major obstacle to the preparation of better quality programmes and projects that are a prerequisite for European funding and for more effective cross-border and inter-regional cooperation. Slovenia is not allowed to be late. This is not in line with European regulation. For example, in the European Constitution, which we have recently ratified in this House, regions and their committee of regions are becoming increasingly important between the European Union institutions. In addition to greater development efficiency, timely regional organisation, I think of the provinces, would also allow for greater rationality in organising administration and greater decentralisation of powers and resources. Preparations to obtain as much resources as possible are expected from the Prime Minister, when he was a government programme, to be one of the priorities of this government, which is certainly right. The European Commission's latest communications, which also relate to Slovenia, reiterate that it will become increasingly difficult to obtain funds from the European Union budget. That is why I ask the Minister, Dr. Ivan Žagar: Does the government foresee - and if the answer is yes - what will be the government's activities for the regional organisation of the state? At two levels; at NUTS2, the statistical classification of territorial units is primarily for so-called development-cohesion regions which are important for maximising the level of funding from the European Union funds over the period [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] new financial perspectives 2007-2013, and at NUTS3 level - the provinces that are needed in addition to the desired political decentralisation of the country for more efficient planning and management of coherent regional development. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u77	Thank you, Mr. Horvath. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u78	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr President, honourable Members, honourable Members! Thank you for the question, Mr Member. I agree with you, of course, that the staggered stand in the field of regional organisation in Slovenia is not ideal or is far from ideal, because we are not, except as you have already mentioned, in the sense of statistical regions in fact completely unorganized. Of course, the government is also planning to move forward in this area at both levels. At the level of NUTS2, so-called development and cohesion regions, which are of course important for the acquisition of funds under this heading, but this is not the only reason which is important or related to the acquisition of funds. The government is, of course, currently planning activities that run parallel to the negotiations for the next financial perspective for 2007-2013. With regard to domestic organisation at this level, we are planning this year to adopt a new law on coherent regional development and under this law also appropriate institutional organisation for the level of NUTS2 regions. As regards the establishment of landscapes, this is actually a question at the level of NUTS3 regions, the fact that there was no real political will in this area in the past, I think, actually. I absolutely agree that decentralisation is only possible and exclusively with the establishment of landscapes. That is why the government and even within our service plan to prepare everything necessary for the establishment of the provinces this year and, of course, then the decision will be made here in the National Assembly. I would like to stress in particular when we talk about the establishment of landscapes, that it is extremely important that we talk about content and that we are talking in the sense that the landscapes, the real regional organisation, represent a new development opportunity and a new development initiative at this level, because otherwise we will not do much. But here, of course, I have a way of thinking, because we need to be very clear and precise, which tasks, whose powers, together with financial resources, we will of course move down, are said to be to a landscape level, and also along with structures. I think that Slovenia can no longer afford to set up another additional structure, as it would have put too much pressure on the public financial sector. This is how we plan to prepare these things this year, and I would like to stress one point in particular. In this regard, it is also necessary to define or carry out the financial autonomy of the municipalities accordingly. It would probably be wrong if centralisation from the state summit were transferred to something - 12 for example, depending on the number - of lower centres, which could then be equally centralistic. This is possible if the municipalities are not strong enough as the basic level of local self-government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u79	Thank you, Minister. Does the Member wish to ask an additional question? No, no, no. The next question to the Minister for Education and Sport, Dr Milan Zver, will be asked by Mrs Maria Pozsonec. Do you want to set him up even though the minister apologized?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u80	Yeah, I'd like that.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u81	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u82	My parliamentary question concerns the financing of kindergartens. For parents and also for congregations, I believe that the maintenance of kindergartens is a huge cost. Many parents with low incomes or average incomes simply cannot pay the cost of kindergarten, even though it is a relative part of the total cost. I would like to know why kindergarten teachers and educators are not paid from the State budget because they are also teaching workers and are doing extremely important teaching work in creating the image of a young person. That's why I think a chain of education is indispensable. I wonder: How many children stay out of preschool education just because parents can't pay the costs of kindergarten? Would more children be born if a cheaper kindergarten was available to parents? I believe that in a country with such demographic indicators, consideration should be given to making it easier to pay for kindergartens and to look at the upbringing of children from these salaries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u83	Thank you, Mrs. Poxon. Because the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr. Dimitri Rupel, apologized, I ask Mr. Mark Pavlich? [[...]] He does. Yes, please, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u84	Thank you for your word. It is a good thing that my question to the public has stirred up before I was able to present it orally before this high assembly. In particular, because we have recently witnessed many low blows by our three neighbours and the last earring is, of course, in Italy's intention to declare the ecological zone. I therefore ask the Minister and expect his oral answer: What will the Ministry of Foreign Affairs do about this? Will it allow Italy, by declaring the ecological zone on the Adriatic, to definitively delete from the map the open sea, international waters, thus preventing Slovenia and other third countries from realizing centuries of freedoms, such as freedom of navigation, freedom of fishing, overflight, scientific research and could also be listed. And if I help and clarify this question a little bit: Will the Ministry try to ensure that Slovenia is subject to a different regime in this zone so that Slovenia is exempted, as is already the case in the Croatian fishing and ecological zone? Will the Ministry endeavour to achieve joint management of this zone? That would be possible. Last but not least: will Italy continue as some sort of retaliatory measure by creating our own Slovenian ecological zone, is it not a uniform profession, or is it even possible? This idea is based on broken legal arguments and the problem is that such zones cannot be established if we do not have specific high seas coordinates; these coordinates can only be determined in agreement with our neighbour Croatia. So, I expect because of the importance of the issue that the Minister will be able to respond orally at the next meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u85	Thank you, Mr. Pavlich. Mr Janez Podobnik, Minister for Environment and Space, will be asked by Mr Martin Mikolič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u86	Thank you for your word. Nicely greeted! To the Minister of Environment and Space, Mr Janez Podobnik, I am asking a question about the new Regulation on Environmental Taxation for Pollution from Wastewater and the Regulation on Environmental Taxation for Environmental Pollution for Waste Disposal adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia at the end of the previous mandate. The Regulations were published in Official Journals 123 and 129/04 in November of the previous year. The regulations substantially change the way in which municipal waste financing is used so far in local communities, while in 2005 they still maintain the way in which the tax is used. The provisions on the refund of the environmental duty referred to in Articles 22 and 23 of the new Regulations starting from 1.1.2006 will make it significantly difficult or even prevent the recovery of the collected environmental benefits to non-resident municipalities or municipalities in the less developed territory of the Republic of Slovenia. According to the new regulations, the environmental duty is the revenue of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. Local communities will have to include the investment in the municipality's development programme plan, which is logical. Of course, investment will also have to be included in the national development programme plan. A priority list of investment projects for inclusion in the national development programme plan will be drawn up by the Ministry of Environment and Space according to the criteria set out in the operational programme for decommissioning and cleaning municipal waste water and the rehabilitation of municipal landfills. The operational programme has been developed and the priority has also been set. It is clear from the provisions of the new regulations that the environmental duty financial resources will be used to finance priority projects in the areas envisaged by the operational programme for the disposal and treatment of waste water, mainly or as it says: in Ljubljana and Maribor by the end of 2007, in Celje and Kranj by 2012 and so on, while most areas populated by less than 15,000 population units are included at the end of the programme. Among the latter are all congregations from Obsotel and Kozjansk. I ask: Does this mean that non-urban municipalities will have to finance the construction from the budget if they want to install this municipal infrastructure before the expected period? Is it acceptable in the new regulation to abolish this source for repayment of annuity by credit, which has been leased for certain constructions, cleaning plants or disposals of landfills and has been covered in the financial structure under the provisions of the regulations in force at that time? In what way should non-priority areas prepare to comply with the operational programme for decommissioning and cleaning of municipal waste water and the rehabilitation of municipal landfills, provided that they have limited use of the most important resources to finance these investments? Finally, it is unacceptable that domestic and legal persons in the underdeveloped territory of the Republic of Slovenia will pool environmental benefits for developed areas. I'm concluding. Nevertheless, he only added this, because it is likely that Mr Minister will not be able to explain today everything to me that he would ask for an answer in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u87	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u88	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members. Mr Mikolić asked me a very difficult question, I will try to answer it briefly, but it is true that in the last days and weeks, many mayors of various Slovenian municipalities are addressing this topic. First of all, I would like to tell you that both regulations, as well as the operational programme for decommissioning and cleaning municipal waste water, have been adopted in the "interregnum", so to speak, during the period between the elections and the emergence of the new authority. It doesn't mean anything by itself. At the same time, it means to me that today, when I speak as Minister, I will just say that I am looking at these questions with the behavior I have here today and now about the questions you have opened for me. According to my understanding of the regulation, the provisions of the environmental law on environmental taxes, which provides that the environmental taxes collected in the municipality are justified by the municipality if it has its own development programme plan in accordance with the public finance rules, which is in line with the operational programme for environmental protection. If that is the case, then in my opinion, in my view, the two regulations you are referring to do not change the purpose or way in which funds are spent. Moreover, as can be read in their provisions, the municipality is entitled under the same conditions to the part of the fee paid by the service activities when it comes to the decommissioning of biodegradable water into sewerage in the territory of the municipality or to another case where the ashes are removed from the thermal power plants, heating plants or municipal waste incineration plants in the landfill located in its territory. The operational programme referred to by you sets environmental protection for each Slovenian municipality especially until 2017, priorities and the commitments made by the municipality are to use funds known to environmental benefits in accordance with these priorities. The document has also been published and is available on the websites of the Environment and Space Department. The fact is that the municipalities must build their sewers by 2008 and 2010. This fact does not affect, in my understanding, the use of environmental duty in the municipality area, which must meet its obligations by 2017. Each municipality shall carry out its own sewage equipment programme and shall not be in conflict with the operational programme, which shall also have the time limits agreed upon at the time of the accession of the Republic of Slovenia to the EU. Non-urban municipalities, and you too, Mr. Member, come from a non-urban municipality, are therefore obliged to manage sewerage first in settlements with more than 10,000 inhabitants, and then in settlements with a lower number of inhabitants and then in smaller settlements, especially those in water protection areas. Municipalities can also combine with their programmes, as is the case in some cases when environmental benefits are being used to dispose of waste. In our view, the integration of the programmes of the non-local municipalities is also recommended because this increases the possibility of obtaining additional cohesion funds from the EU budget. Since this is a very complex issue, although I have given an oral answer, I am prepared to provide the Member with a more detailed written reply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u89	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Mikolitch wants to complete the answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u90	I didn't get an answer to a question about paying off annuity credits. You know that a number of municipalities or public economic services in the past, when they built cleaning plants to cover one part of the funds with financial construction, they also rented loans. So far, the existing regulation has ensured that these fees can remain to repay these loans. If this is not the case, the financial structure which the local communities have received in the past period for the implementation of the project and for the completion of the financial structure will in fact be undermined.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u91	Thank you, Mr. Mikolitch. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u92	This issue is also partly linked to the finance sector and perhaps to the local self-government and regional development sector. Since we meet regularly at interdepartmental meetings and discuss some other very topical issues related to the financial functioning of the municipalities in 2005, I will also draw particular attention to the issue that you have referred here.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u93	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr Minister for Higher Education, Science and Technology, Dr Juret Zupan, will be asked by Dr Mitja Slavinec.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u94	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Mr. Secretary! My question concerns the area of e-accessibility to the general public, namely, by 12 February, an open call for a public debate on this accessibility document was launched on the website of the European Commission's Directorate for Information Society. The implementation of the principles of electronic accessibility is crucial in overcoming obstacles to people with special needs, with social barriers, not least of the elderly. In view of the importance that Slovenia prescribes in this area, especially in relation to education, and even more so since the call has been directed among other broad groups also to government organisations, I am interested in whether the government has responded or how it has responded. Second part of this question: How do you imagine the division of this department, which now belonged to the Ministry of Information Society? Who or what ministry will specifically coordinate these matters? There are several options: with your ministry, the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, for the economy, possibly for public administration. I request answers and views in this regard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u95	Thank you, Mr. Slavinz. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u96	Dear Mr Slavinec, thank you very much for the questions. This is, I must say, an extremely important matter, because we know that the government's position is well known and, of course, we agree that the information society is one of the foundations on which we want to build a knowledge society. And of course electronic accessibility is the basis for this information society. The government position is also published in a coalition contract, where there is a clear view of this. Let me say it again. The information society is the most important area, not only in Slovenia, but also in Europe to achieve the Lisbon Declaration. The information society is, of course, indispensable for increasing competitiveness and for increasing the number of jobs which, of course, contribute to a much higher quality of life and also to adding higher added value. It is important here for electronic accessibility to increase the competitiveness of the market in the field of electronic communications, because these electronic communications must be as cheap as possible in order to be accessible and accessible to the general public. Here we particularly stress specific groups, which are usually also financially worse, which means that they must have access as cheap as possible, these are disabled, older and so on. This is very important. In the latter part, this is the most important part, but it is necessary to allow the situation for affordable, broad-based access to electronic communications, especially for higher education, school and other institutions of general interest. Our goal is to achieve this in all households in Slovenia. The problem here is that this needs to be achieved in the beginning now with these calls for this to start building in commercially less accessible areas, because where they are commercially interested, these entrepreneurs should build it. In areas where, say, economically weaker or in regional areas where these infrastructures are not yet available, the country should do so with the necessary infrastructure. Now we come to that question of yours with the invitation to tender. Our government has already or our ministries made this call. In fact, it is a continuation of this invitation to tender, which was suspended twice during the previous government period. And at that time, we want to lay this on a whole new foundation, so this call was made to obtain first information. This call, I stress, is particularly important, will be put on a completely new strategy, that is to say, to start building on those parts that are not interesting for private capital investments. That's where the state's gonna do it. And then it is important that these links must be such that, later on, they will also allow the widest bidders to use this infrastructure. As for the final part of your question, who should do so, where the Ministry is supposed to be, I say that this is undoubtedly from a coalition treaty, that all activities in this area are coordinated by the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology. This has not been done physically, since the Government Act stipulates that this will be carried out effectively by April 1st, so we organise it together. This is the responsibility of the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Sport. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u97	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Slavinec wants to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u98	If we refer to this invitation to tender, which you mentioned and which was subsequently repealed, it was also, according to my information, to the cooperation of the European Community with certain means. I am interested in this: not least, I have also referred my question to the European Commission's call for proposals: have we not yet missed the deadlines to make use of those funds that were envisaged at the time? As I say, according to my information, the deadlines were quite tight and I fear that this repeal has then compromised the possibility of drawing on European funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u99	Thank you, Mr. Slavinz. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Of course, you correctly warned that the hands were tight. And the fact that this was abolished twice and we are late is unfortunately the result of the past. That is why a few consultations were needed, and they will be needed to catch this. I agree with you. Your hands are tight, but they're not too late. We are doing our best here, and this should be emphasized in particular by the fact that we must not fall again in this place, because this would indeed be a loss of opportunity. Once again, I must point out that the whole strategy needs to be put on other bases. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u101	Thank you, Minister. Minister of Transport, Mr Mag. Janez Bozič, Mr Bojan Kontic will ask the question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u102	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Secretary! You're probably the third or fourth person I've asked him this question, which is history. In the past mandate, however, the government may have taken a step forward in addressing the development problem of this part of Slovenia's environment, namely the Savinja-Salenia region and also the Koro region. In our space, we find that without further development of transport infrastructure we will not be able to continue to develop as planned. In particular, representatives of Gorenje have recently warned about this. The assessment of the need for a fast road connecting the motorway cross to Koroška is said, even further with Austria and later with Croatia, is the solution that also means the elimination of the development problem in this part of our country. To this end, of course, I urge you to do what is in your power and to allow this fast road to be placed in all the acts necessary to do so and, of course, later also to build a fast road. But I'm curious because I know that activities in this area are taking place, how far are you with these activities? At the same time as I keep reminding myself of the problems at this moment, the real road connection Arja Vas-Velje and further towards Koroška is bad. The link has quite a few black points, although I have to agree here with the representatives of the profession who say there are no black points on this road. But it's not possible to define them, and that's what I'm adding, because the whole section of this road is black because people are dying on every mile of this road. When we talk about removing traffic jams and problems that we are dealing with in traffic spikes in our valley, I also ask you: Since a number of circles have been planned in our space, of course I wonder how far these activities are. There were some resources planned for this in the budget and, of course, I would like to know whether you will continue the policy of the former government in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u103	Thank you, Mr. Kontic. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u104	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish you a good day, and thank you for the question. These are activities related to the fast road on the route between A1 Šentilj and Koper. It is a link from Velenje, Slovenj Gradac and Dravograd. This construction is included in the so-called additional programme of the national programme for the construction of motorways in the Republic of Slovenia and the situation is next. You've already found out that the activities are underway. In 2004 a comparative study of variants took place on the fast road Holmec-Vič - Slovenj Gradec-Velanje-Arja vas. At the request of the municipalities of Koro, we joined the study this year with the option of connecting a fast road west of Šentrupert, connecting to a highway in the district of Šentrupert. This study is due by the end of this year. In the second part of your question, the Ministry of Transport would say that last year, in October, it gave the Ministry of Environment an initiative and a space to draw up a state-level plan for that country's road, which also runs all the other procedures related to the adoption of the site plan. In the second part, if I answer your question, it is a question of the planned circles on the Shaleska road in Velenj and others as well. The Shaleška road in Velenj - it is a connection to Zgornji Dolic-Velenje - is an extremely busy road, because according to our data we have, these are traffic count data, driving daily on the Sileška road between 10,000 and 20,000 vehicles, which is an extremely large number. I must say that there is already a project in progress on the regulation of the Silesia Road, which is included in the state budget. An idea project was designed to provide for the arrangement of four intersections. The investment is estimated at about 750 million tolars. During last year, a so-called PGD PZI project was developed – a circular cross-section project at Spar. This year, however, PGD and PZI circle were also developed at the Jumper and projects will also be developed in the following years for the intersection in front of the tunnel and for the Paka Hotel or Bus Station. We could start construction in 2006. If I only remember for a moment. The budget, i.e. the document that exists between 2003 and 2008, provides for funds in Velenje for last year about 35 million tolars, for this year 36,500 and 107, 160 and 208 million tolars for the coming years 2006, 2007 and 2008. A total of about 550 million tolars are foreseen for this project. Since it is also a matter of regulating the road through the village, co-financing of the municipality is also envisaged. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia will continue its projects and the programme that has already been set up in the past. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u105	Thank you, Minister. Do you want to complete the answer? Thank you. Mr Dragutina Mate, Minister of the Interior, will be asked a question by Mr Rudolf Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u106	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. My question concerns the fate of most employees in the company Peko Tržič. In the media years ago, we observed a number of critical comments on the work of the then Board of Supervisors of Pek and the lawyer of this company and the SRD. At that time, the audit house, which reviewed the company's operations, found numerous irregularities in the company's business as a suspicion of the abuse of the position of the company's administration, also pointed out numerous irregularities that revolved around the SRD's related ties and a number of companies, as well as the law firm representing the company, irregularities related to the contested decisions of the company's advertising and propaganda administration and irregularities in the project. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] BTC, Ljubljana, and many others. All irregularities in the company were also brought to the attention of the then economic minister and the then president of the SRD administration and the Prime Minister. More than that, in the case of the dismissal of workers used by TEK PRO, based in Trbovje, which is based in the programme of the active employment policy of the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia, 40 unemployed workers were employed in December mainly from the former Pekko Trbovlje plant, which received a million and a half for each worker or worker individually, that is to say for all 40 workers, 60 million SIT workers. At the beginning of 2004, TEK PRO also employed three RTH workers from Trbovlje-Hrastnik and received 5 million and a half for each worker, a total of 16 million and a half. Despite the receipt of the subsidies, TEK PRO has not even started to operate yet, and the funds received after what is read in the media and heard in the media have been inadvertently spent and the workers have already become out of work. I ask the Minister of the Interior: Has the police criminal service in the economic society of Peko dealt with the suspicions of crimes in the said society and, if so, what exposition of the police administration has done so? Is the advertising campaign for Peko controversial at the time led by Tomaž Lovše? In fact, although it is an economic company, Peko also received substantial financial resources from the State. Is this saying that we have a fully justified request to look into these funds? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u107	Thank you, Mr. Petan. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u108	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you for the question, Mr Member. With regard to specific issues, I would say that the criminal police, more specifically the sector, have since the end of last year the Criminal Police Office of the Kranj police administration investigated several suspicions of criminal services. A number of reports were submitted to the District State Prosecutor's Office in Kranj on the case from 2001 to 2004, in which two natural persons were informed of the abuse of the position and rights under Article 244 of the Criminal Law due to the reasonable suspicion of the service of the two offences. In addition, the criminal police sector of the Kranj police administration has accused two natural persons, one of whom was also accused of having committed a criminal offence under article 240 of the Criminal Code under article 245 of the Criminal Code. In addition to natural persons, the sector was also informed by one legal person following Article 244 of the District Attorney's Office in Kranj because of the alleged crime committed. That's how the crime police sort of handled all these suspicions. On the second issue, criminal police are based on an anonymous letter and a request from the District Attorney's Office in Kranj dated 26. Seven. 2002 investigated the alleged suspicions of criminal services in advertising Peck’s products and on these findings 4. Ten. 2002 in writing to the District Attorney's Office in Kranj. In that report, the criminal police informed the prosecution of the results concerning the business of Pekko in advertising and propaganda with Imelda 8000 d.o.o. Ljubljana. In this respect and in relation to the operations of Pekko and Imelda 8000, the criminals reviewed the extensive documentation and, on the basis of this, it is said that the business documentation, contracts concluded, contracts annexation, contracts, invoices, invoices issued, and that the transaction, which lasted for a period of less than 2 years, was worth more than SIT 120 million.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u109	Thank you, Minister. Here you are, Mr. Petan, to supplement your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u110	Thank you for your word. If we add up these funds, the fact is that this company Tek Pro got around 80 million SIT for the restructuring. I wonder if you happen to have data - I do not require this data today: Were they at least roughly usefully used, or were they really unintended, as they say? According to the data, it was intended to be used completely unintentionally. As far as filming these videos is concerned, when commercials for Peka shoes were made in the United States and as far as I know, it should also be a Croatian singer - if it were Slovenian, I would still understand, but I think that these spots at sea could also be made in Piran or Portorož. So I find it extremely incomprehensible, extremely irrational and very insulting to the employees of this company to do so. I hope that this will also find an appropriate epilogue, because this is actually a mockery of workers in Slovenia. And the question may also be, Has it been found that these funds have really been wasted as unintentionally as the media have said? If you do not have this answer, you can also reply in writing later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u111	Thank you, Mr. Petan. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u112	I'll try to answer these additional questions. The data provided by you, about 60 million SITs received by Tek Pro for the employment of surplus workers, are correct. They also received for workers taken over from the RTH, the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine, a few workers, each at 5 million 500 000 and thus received 16.5 million. At the same time, in December of last year, this company declared more than 20 workers who somehow remained on the road. The data on how serious this company has begun to work, unfortunately I cannot present to you today, I will prepare a written reply in this regard. But I'm afraid it's in the criminal investigation phase, and then I may not be able to give you the data. But it's true about the videos, they were happening abroad, they were happening not in America, but in the Seychelles. They were just using the frame they thought was best.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u113	Thank you, Minister. Because he's the Minister of Economy. Andrej Vizjak apologized, asking Dr. Paul Gantar if he would still ask the question. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u114	Of course, Mr President, I'll ask you a question. Otherwise, news has come to me that perhaps Mr. Secretary is not so sick, but he is on vacation, skiing. That's not bad, and that's my excuse. A man works and has the right to rest, but he also has the right to say it directly. I'd take that into account if that's true. Nevertheless, I would ask a question. At the January meeting of the National Assembly, on 21 January, in response to my question about the Government's position on the proposal for a text of the directive on computerised inventions, the Minister promised, inter alia, that Slovenia would actively participate in the preparation of the amendments to the original text of the directive with a view to improving it. I ask: What has his ministry done specifically in this regard? What you have done to bring the views of the Slovenian public closer together, including open-source communities, as well as some small and medium-sized enterprises, the free software developers represented by the economically united Koda.si within the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia.? According to our information, a single consultation was organised within the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Intellectual Property, but you have not changed your views on the support of the directive or formulated any amendments to the proposal for a directive, although the Minister explicitly promised this in response to the question. I must add to this the latest information that will cheer the Minister up. The Committee on Legal Affairs or Legal Affairs of the European Parliament unanimously voted to request a reopening of the procedure concerning the Directive relating to the legislation of software patents. Surely this will mean that the preparation of this directive will return to the beginning. I ask the Minister: Will you, however, take advantage of the opportunity offered by the fact that the matter is likely to return to the very beginning of the directive? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u115	Thank you, Mr. Gantar. The Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr. Dimitrij Rupel, also apologized. I ask Mr. Lucky Friend, will he ask a question? Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u116	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, respectable government, respectable colleagues! Mr Bevk has already touched on this issue, but I would like to be more specific. In recent times, we have witnessed very great pressure on Slovenia by Austria, Croatia and, above all, Italy. The events celebrating the February 10th celebration in Italy caused very sharp reactions, both to the Slovenian, Croatian and Italian public. In its interpretation, the National Alliance has afforded a distorted display of historical facts, and in the Slovenian National Party we estimate that this is a falsification of history, or that this is one of the stages of the strategy of the Italian right, which unfortunately also with fascist propaganda, undoubtedly the last film is such propaganda - the heart in the abyss distorts historical facts. The Italian Ministry of Telecommunications, which also includes the National Television RAI, which broadcasts the film, led by Maurizio Gasparri, Minister of Italians worldwide Mirko Tramalia and Vice-President Gianfranco Finni of Italy, wage an open war against the Slovenians. Will the Slovenian Government request an apology in light of the last words made by the Government of the Republic of Italy? Will the Government of the Republic of Slovenia solve the problem only at bilateral or multilateral level, because in the Slovenian National Party we believe that Europe should be based not only theoretically but also, in fact, on an anti-fascist coalition, on the basis of this coalition? Will the Government of the Republic of Slovenia demand prosecution for 1,200 war criminals in Italy who, in the 21st years, have brutally killed 1,620,000 people worldwide? For we know that crimes, especially war, do not get old and that the time limit for justice for Italian fascists has been very deplorable, thanks to England. To date, no Italian fascist has been convicted, nor has Italy apologized for the atrocities it has committed. In Slovenia and Yugoslavia there were 470 registered Italian war criminals who killed half a million people on the ground of the former Yugoslavia. For the Slovenian National Party, such representatives of the Italian authorities who openly advocate fascist ideology are undesirable in Slovenia. I therefore ask the Minister, although he is not here today: With what honour will the Vice-President of the Italian Government, Gianfranco Finni, when he arrives in Slovenia, be accepted? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u117	Thank you, Mr. Friend. Mr Vask Simonit, Minister for Culture, will be asked by Mr Franz Kangler. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u118	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister Simonita, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! This is my question, which is addressed to the Minister for Culture, which is due mainly to the functioning and consequences of his predecessor in this ministry, and that is why it will also be raised. In this National Assembly, I have spoken many times about centralisation, and it is also necessary to start driving decentralisation. One of the coalition provisions is that the government will take decentralisation seriously. And if we have seen centralisation so far, I think it is time that in all structures, both in the economy, politics, sport, after all in culture, the time of decentralisation has come. Therefore, I ask you: For what key was appointed the professional commission for performing arts in the following composition, the five-member commission: Daliborka Podboj, Blaž Lukan, Amela Krajger, Silvan Omerzu, Primož Jesenko. Everyone's home from Ljubljana. An expert committee for music art was also established, which is a five-member: Igor Bashin, Nenad Firšt, Marko Muni, Hugo Šekoranja, Dr. Primož Kurent, except for Mr. First, who is home from Celje, are all from Ljubljana. I am asking because this expert commission provides the basis for the allocation of funds shared by the Ministry of Culture to theatres and opera houses in Slovenia. I also ask you how many times have the members of both commissions seen performances in the Slovenian National Theatre Maribor, either ballet, opera and drama in 2004, to give such good and professional opinions as was recorded in my previous announcement of the question. I also ask you, Minister, on the basis of what was the funding of the Ministry of Culture in 2002 for the Opera, Ballet, Ljubljana index 112 and 2003 for the Opera and Ballet in Ljubljana index 111.84, for the same period, for the same period, for the exact same national house, and for the Opera and Ballet Maribor for 2002 [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] Index 105 for 2003 index 105.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u119	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u120	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Your Honor! How the commissions are designed, I would first say that these procedures, tasks, composition, duration of mandates and other issues affecting the work of the expert commissions are laid down in the Rules of Procedure and in the Decisions on the appointment of individual expert commissions. The tasks of the expert commissions in relation to the evaluation of applications received for public tenders and calls and direct calls to public institutions are as follows: evaluation of the work programme and the financial plan for the following year. In the work related to the financing of public institutions, in particular the proposal to finance programmes or programme material costs, these items are set against three key criteria: quality, extent of the programme and accessibility of programmes in the past and planned period. The expert committee, specifically referred to by the Member, has been appointed in accordance with the rules. The Music Arts Commission of 3.1.2003, with the exception of one member who became an additional member after the start of the new government, and the Commission for Performing Arts was appointed after the resignation of the previous one on 8.6.2004, with the exception of one additional member who became under the new government's mandate. The additional members of the Commissions were not involved in the evaluation of the public service programmes, as the financing process for public institutions had already been completed. In doing so, I would like to point out that there is a need to follow the principle in the composition of the expert commissions that they are composed of individuals who, with their quality work and in the professional public, have created a general reputation and would join in what the Member suggested that they are not now formed by a regional principle from competent individuals and I hope that when we have the opportunity to re-form these commissions after their mandate has expired, we will, of course, be made of quality, competent people, but only by a broader regional principle. However, it is still necessary to say in defence so much that, in view of the many musical and theatre events, it is illustrative to expect that all the experts - and I believe or I hope that all these experts - have seen, without exception, all the theatre and dance performances and have also been able to listen to all the concerts. The expert committees are cultural operators in the triangle, the official profession and the decision-maker, i.e. the Minister, only one of the key weights for a balanced and weighty final decision on financing. Their work is discussed in more detail by the decisions themselves on this funding and they also answer to the general public with their professional work and their professional attitude. With regard to the financing of these theatres or those indices, which the Member of Parliament is asking the question of or mentioning the data, I would say that they are slightly different. According to data from the Ministry of Culture relating to the financing of these institutions, from the State budget in 2002 and 2003 the data are as follows: opera and ballet Ljubljana for 2002 are all types of costs index 113.32, for 2003 all types of costs index 105.97, while opera and ballet Maribor for 2002 all types of costs are index 108.80, for 2003 all types of costs are index 108.09. Of course, I must say that I am aware that indexing is some form of survival, that quality must be monitored. I hope that we will be able to find a better solution, but at this point I cannot promise how this evaluation will take place in the future. I would only add this, as you probably all know, that 70% of the funds earmarked for these institutions are paid for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u121	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Does the Member wish to ask an additional question? Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u122	Thank you for the additional question, Mr President. Minister, with all due respect to you and your efforts towards culture, I think it's wise to ask you as well. According to the information I have, these members of the professional commissions, which I have now listed in the previous question, have never seen a single performance of the Slovenian National Theatre in Maribor in 2004. Not once! That is why I call on you, and I also give you the initiative to reflect on the composition and purpose of this committee, to try to re-establish these two committees and to try, in accordance with your reply to me, to ensure the composition of these commissions regionally, either from the theatre of Nova Gorica, Ljubljana, Maribor, Celje, Ptuj and could also be listed. In this way, you can ensure that this indexation and all other expert opinions are correct and fair. After all, if the Commission were established, it would be useful for the Minister to look at at at least one idea. And look at the consequences of all this! According to the expert commission, the inclusion of Burkard's performance of Firemet in the regular repertoire of the house in 2004 was an inappropriate programme move. In the past, a similar warning was given regarding the Greek play Zorba. The Greek Zorba performance was sold out in the theatre on 14.2. and 15.2. to the last seat. The Commission has not even looked at it and gives such graphic comments and opinions. With the performance of the Greek Zorba, the Slovenian National Theatre will perform this year, the first of the theatres, in old Gorica, with a double performance on the stage. And this will be a great recognition for Slovenia and also for the Slovenian National Theatre. That is why, Minister, I call on you at the same time to ask: Do you think that these two committees would replace you, because for these reasons, I have certainly held the argument. It would be correct and fair for some in this country to stop working from those who do not come from central Slovenia, but to make this relationship completely the same for all those who work and live in this country. No matter where they come from: either from Styria or from Primorska or from Ljubljana.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary wants a word?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u124	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It's about the change of commission. The Commissions shall be bound by the specific mandates they have. Now we should, I don't know what the reasons are, maybe they're appropriate, I'll think about it, or I'll think about it. I myself wanted to strengthen the Commission, when I arrived, only with additional members, as far as it allowed me, to establish some balance and bring these new members into their minds a new thought to say so. However, it may also be necessary to face the fact that the Commissions want to follow some quality starting points. If they haven't visited any shows, I can't answer that, nor can I answer that. [[...]] [[A voice in the background.]] However, the Commissions often conclude on a programme which will take place next year. [[...]] Here, to a certain extent, I would believe that these commissions are also professional or follow these professional criteria, and I would not now simply estimate that they are inquality. As for the Greek of Zorba, as far as I am aware of other sources, so to speak, it is a musical, I think, and the thought of the cultural ministry has followed that, however, it may give the classical programme more emphasis and that it is committed to the quality of the performances actually being carried out. This was a musical itself, for an easier form, which certainly also belongs to the theater, no doubt. I don't want to cast doubt on that. But probably according to the existing programme that these commissions crossed, they decided just as they were. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u125	Thank you very much. The Minister for Foreign Affairs is absent. I ask, does Mr Anton Anderlič nevertheless want to ask the question of the mission?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u126	I don't want to. In view of the fact that the Minister has received a written question, I expect him to answer orally at a future meeting or at one of the future meetings when he may arrive at the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u127	Thank you very much. You just want to ask a question, please, Mr. Anderlich? Thank you very much. The Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs is also absent. Would Mr Dusan Kumer like to ask a question?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u128	I'll try, thank you for your word, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, ministers, colleagues and colleagues! My parliamentary question concerns the area of work of social work centres. In the last few more than 10 years, we have transformed most of the social security subsystems in Slovenia and adapted them to the new situation. Services or services in the field of social policy, such as social work centres, are also included in this segment. In view of the fact that the current Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Mr Drobnič, when the opposition Member was still in the previous term, was also extremely critical in this area, to point out that in one of such discussions in the National Assembly, the social work centres and the employees in particular in them were named as elephants in the porcelain trade, and the most impossible and incomprehensible decisions are being made, I am particularly interested in: What will he do now when he has the exercise in his hands, change, improve and how will he do so? When I have just read the written programme and the goals of the government, of course, I am talking about the work relating to the Ministry of Labour, and I must say that I have been disappointed by the power. There have been so many words in the past, but now that there is an opportunity for you to turn these words into actions, nothing, only one indent of the entire part of the programme is dedicated to this area, with the title Amending the Regulation on Technical Conditions for the Implementation of the Activities of Centres for Social Work. I therefore ask the Minister: In 2004 a professional task was prepared at the Ministry entitled Redesign of the organisation of social work centres in the Republic of Slovenia. The final decision of the reorganisations is expected to be taken following the experimental phase to be carried out by the Ministry this year in 2005. I would like to ask: Will Minister Drobnič perform the experimental phase outlined in the aforementioned programme not follow this up, and how in the light of the preparation of the new national social protection programme, the Minister sees the role of social work centres? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister of Transport Magi. Mr Srečko Hvauc will ask Janez Bozic a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u130	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, colleagues, ministers. I'd like to ask one question concerning the level crossing of railways and roads. This question, I think, is important not only locally, but also wider, as soon as possible, each of us is in this dangerous place. In Slovenia we have 1229 kilometres of railways, on which there are just over 1,000 level crossings, which of course means that we have about one level crossing per kilometer, of which only 300 are secured by prisons and others by road traffic signalling. Each such crossing is primarily a dangerous place, and there is also a major obstacle to traffic, where time, nerves, and other things are being lost. And if not, of course, mention that such a city also represents a huge maintenance cost. We know the problems that have been or have been faced by local communities that have maintained or co-financed the maintenance of these level guarantees by 31.12. when many of them have failed to provide sufficient funding. We also have a lot of lawsuits open, where the state actually wants to get these funds from local communities. As already mentioned, this problem has been resolved since 1.1.2005, but these old cases have been solved since previous years. Despite the fact that we have had several programmes to resolve these level crossings over the past ten years and perhaps several more years, the situation has not changed or improved significantly. However, since the Minister of Transport, the then candidate for Minister, mentioned this issue as one of the priorities at the presentation of the Transport Committee, he would of course ask the question: What is the current situation in this area and what has been done or what activities are being undertaken to make this situation, which I do not think is best, change as soon as possible? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u132	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the question. I would start with statistics that I think are necessary in order for the Slovenian public to face the facts that rule in this area. It is specifically 976 level crossings, some at this time being abolished, according to the information provided by the Member. At this time, in 15 years, including 2004, 710 accidents occurred at these level crossings. This is an extremely large number that I can say alarming, of which there were even 135 deaths. It is a fact that Slovenia must turn extremely quickly if we are to regulate this area as soon as possible. Activities are currently under way at over 60 level crossings. The general problem that has been said and known on several occasions is that the financing of the necessary activities for the implementation of new insurance as well as for the maintenance of existing ones is virtually not as regulated as we would like. In order to finance the maintenance of road-rail crossings, municipalities in which these crossings are located must also contribute. In most cases, however, this was not ensured, so the Slovenian Railway Holding had to also initiate lawsuits. At the beginning of February, we proposed that the Slovenian Railway Holding should not lodge new actions under this Title and that, in all cases which are not yet legally concluded, in agreement with the parties concerned, in particular the municipalities, ensure that the procedures remain in place until the entry into force of the amended Article 29 of the Railway Safety Act, which redistricts the financing of the maintenance of road-rail crossings. The result of these two decisions is that more resources will have to be made available for these purposes from the State budget. The financial plan of the Public Railway Agency, which needs to be aligned with the Ministry of Finance, provides for a total of approximately 513 million dollars for 2005, of which 314 million are budgeted and about 199 million are from own participation. In view of the above, it is planned to arrange 80 to 85 crossings within the framework of level crossings and ongoing projects in 2005. Priority is given to the level crossings co-financed by the road manager or local communities. I must also tell the national assembly that a project documentation is being prepared or produced entitled Determination of criteria from typological insurance models and equipment of road-rail level crossings by setting out the priority modernisation to be completed in March of this year and after which the insurance of the most urgent road crossings with rail lines will also begin. I must also inform the National Assembly that in the past week we have had discussions with the European Investment Bank, which was in the previous period, i.e. in the previous government, ready to co-finance or finance these level crossings of the railway, but the project has stalled at some stage. And in this context, we will continue with the goodwill that this lender has on the part of the European Union, and I hope that we will also find the appropriate agreement with the Ministry of Finance, i.e. the share of the country's funding and also the relative share of the European Investment Bank. We have a practical possibility that, in a very short period of time, with a list of concrete projects that are on the priority list that I have already mentioned, we can actually quickly implement these major problems that are in the railway area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u133	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Does the Member wish to complete the question? [[No, no, ……]] Mr Public Administration Minister Gregor Virant will be asked a question by Mrs Darja Lavtišar Bebler. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u134	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. The question is like this. At its 5th regular meeting on 6 January this year, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a decision establishing coordination for better public administration, to be led by Minister Virant. Its tasks include, inter alia, the management of staff resources in public administration, the development of this administration and ensuring the openness and transparency of public administrations. The tasks of this coordination are largely covered by the tasks of the new Ministry of Public Administration. This raises the question: What does the Ministry of Public Administration need, then, because it is an obvious duplication of tasks? On the other hand, has this coordination been established? In fact, what did she do in more than a month, and who are her members? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u135	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u136	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! During the first months of its mandate, the government made some important moves in the field of public administration. Last week, it adopted a completely new regulation on administrative operations, which fully regulated the functioning of the public administration and, in particular, its business with the parties, since we are giving the highest priority to this. The greatest emphasis in our programme is on the day of the public administration to the citizens. It adopted a proposal to remove the stickers, which was already discussed today. Although there were not yet adequate sub-legislative rules, we have implemented with 1.1 the transition of certifications for the needs of administrative procedures from notaries to administrative units and, according to the latest data in these first two months, have realised 20 million savings for citizens, 5 million inflows for the budget. Of course, the only ones who were losing something were the notaries. I have also signed my own instructions to administrative units with a kind text of a letter informing every citizen when it arrives, say, the registration of a motor vehicle. The Ministry of Public Administration programme requires a lot of coordination. In order to ensure a better public administration, this means that all ministries need to function better, so action must be strongly coordinated, both in the field of E administration, organisation, personnel, wages, removal of bureaucratic barriers, public information and so on. A few cases. If we want to ensure consistent implementation of regulations, such as public information, consistent provision of customer trading standards such as, say, that all authorities have to provide quality information on administrative services, that they have to be responsive, that they have to respond to every citizen's letter within 15 days, as it is now stated in the regulation, so that customers cannot send from door to door, from window to window, but must themselves obtain data in accordance with the administrative procedure law, that they must also provide information and services on the Internet. To ensure this, we must establish strong coordination between all ministries and ensure that everyone does. Or, say, a human resources plan where we committed ourselves to stop the trend of increasing the number of employees in the administration. Therefore, the government has established a so-called coordination for better public administration. This coordination costs nothing, does not cause any additional costs, only ensures that we have some formal framework for continuous coordination, that we have set up a network between ministries, people who will occasionally meet to check, on the other hand, what I said before is guaranteed, what is not, where else to fix. For we, by improving administration in all these areas, are extremely serious - that is, no costs. You asked who were her members. Members may, as a rule, be secretaries-general of ministries or under the authority of a minister, as well as any other person. It is important to us that not every ministry works as a world for itself to connect and unify the ministries on the issues they share. This is mainly an organisation, staff, administrative processes, e-government, customer business and similar issues. I myself have a lot of experience with administrative units, where this integration, and this establishment of networks and coordination, has contributed significantly to the improvement of services. This coordination will not, of course, be held every three days or every week and the meeting will be held on 10 March at 15 if you are interested, and it has already been convened last week, it is said, before this question has been asked. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u137	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Madam Members, would you like an additional answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u138	I'm actually very excited about this answer, because you let me know that there is really a need for coordination between all these factors and then I ask: Don't you think you need some additional coordination to coordinate this coordination? Yes, you see, you've given me a very demagotic answer, and that's why I'm asking the same kind of question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u140	I don't know. I'll explain it a little bit simpler. If we, for example, want to provide 500, 600 administrative procedures, services and information on the Internet in one year, then it is certain that every so long we have to call the responsible persons from the ministries to tell them what this information should look like, what forms that will help citizens to get in contact with the administration, and how we also monitor what they have done and what they have not done. I don't know what the problem would be here. I say that this coordination costs nothing, we will not hire any new people, it is people who are already working, and it is our job to pull them together and ensure that they work in a coordinated manner.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Mr Boštjan Zagorac wants to raise the question to the Minister of Finance, Dr Andrei Bajuku. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u142	Thank you for your word. Respectable present. The fact is that many farms, agricultural land and real estate in the Republic of Slovenia are burdened with mortgage credits, I speak mainly for land in the border area with the Republic of Austria, it is mortgage loans from the old country, it is said that in Slovenia, in the then Republic of Slovenia, we have not yet known the mortgage institution and that is what foreign bank agents have used to exploit this proximity to the border and have convinced these people that they have taken advantage of their mortgage properties. By 1.5.2004, when Slovenia fully adopted the European acquis, these people had no major problems. They did not receive any claim from these banks, so they simply did not know how much they owed, how much their meals were, etc. Now that we have taken over the European acquis, these treaties have become valid again. Austrian lawyers, notaries simply leave behind the many jobs they have because the contracts have been updated and these people simply go to the home of the letter that this land must now be given to a foreign Austrian bank. At our unofficial price, because official estimates are not yet available, it should go somewhere for 22% of the land that is privately owned in this border area. I am interested - and I believe that, Mr Minister, the current minister will not be able to answer: Why has the Slovenian government not so far pointed out the problem, given that my colleague Saša Peca has already pointed out this problem in 2003 and 2004 to previous finance ministers? This is some kind of loss of Slovenian territory. I would like to know - can the current minister answer me: When will the exact data be known, what values of Slovenian territory are we talking about? What solutions is the Slovenian government preparing in this direction to help these people in any way possible? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u143	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u144	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much, Mr. Ambassador. You have just found that the answer to your question is actually not available today, especially because in the way it was set up - much more extensively presented at the moment, we did not really know what it was. It is now more clear to us that this is the same problem that your fellow Member has also pointed out in the past. The fact is that there is no documentation or information on this at the Ministry of Finance. I would ask you if you have or have the information to share this with us. But I am willing to tell you today: the willingness of the Ministry to listen to this issue, because it is not just some financial problem that certain citizens and citizens of our Republic might have, which is not in itself the responsibility of the government or the state, but it is an area that is very sensitive, as far as our relations with our neighbours are concerned. It's the border belt, if I understand you correctly. We don't care here. So for the question, I thank you and ask you to provide us with the information you have at your disposal so that we together can find a solution to this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. [[...]] The Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs is absent. Does Mr Ivan Yelen nevertheless want to ask a question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u146	Thank you for your word. Dear Vice-Presidents, Ministers, Members and Members of Parliament! My question is to the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, concerning the payment of earnings in kind, Article 143, paragraph 5, of the Labour Relations Act. You are aware that a number of companies pay part of these earnings by means of vouchers or other material goods in nature, thereby replacing monetary payments of wages. As a result, I would like to know: Is such payments also paid for the prescribed contributions to pension and health care? For we know that both unpaid contributions from that title and other types of monetary payments often mean only a form of avoidance of contributions, thereby reducing the basis on which pensions are coordinated. What measures will the Government take to prevent such leakages, or does the government have a legal basis for resolving the problem? Since the Minister is not present, I'd like to ask for a written answer later.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u147	Thank you very much. The Minister of Transport, Master Janez Bozič, will raise the question of Mr Borut Saiovic. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u148	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues, colleagues, Mr. Secretary. My question concerns the area of transport, and especially car transport. I think that this is an extremely important economic area, but after the entry into the European Union, it is a hit in a number of areas. This is the case with overcrowding in the open European market, and then the law on transport safety and the way of punishment have been added to it, and, of course, not least, the latest situation, which has also received publicity in the media, especially as regards relations with Croatia - part of the European response, I think we can already read it in the media. My question relates to the settlement of this dispute, and above all to this: under the influence of these European regulations, we will be Slovenians all the time. Is it necessary to practice that if Europe does not fully implement them, especially neighbouring countries [[I am referring to Hungary.]] ‘ Is it wise for Slovenians to wear a flag in this area? The second part of the question concerns the following. Even before the outbreak of this issue, our motorists had unfair competition by Croatian motorists, because Croatia was loaded in Slovenia and then drove on to Europe, and we did not adequately protect the interests of our motorists by controlling these permits, since most Croatian cargoes went to Europe without permits. And the second part of the question that I am sure you will be able to answer was not particularly asked, but what about the control of these permits as regards Croatian transports to Europe? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u150	Thank you so much for saying that and thank you so much for asking. In fact, first of all, I would like to say that this is not about the complications caused by the Ministry of Transport, but in our area they only feel the consequences of implementing the EU Customs Code or the Implementing Regulation for the implementation of the Customs Code. The fact is that Slovenian customs have begun to monitor the implementation of this Regulation more closely, which has also led to complications at border crossings. The complications could be mitigated if other non-EU Member States had previously informed other non-EU Member States of the enhanced implementation of this Regulation, that is a fact. For this reason, at our last meeting with the Director-General of Customs, we agreed that we would be informed of all similar measures in advance, so that we could jointly analyse the consequences of these measures and, if necessary, also notify other countries. Of course, we must take into account the fact that EU regulations are directly in force and directly enforceable so that the Republic of Slovenia has no other option than to implement EU regulations. Otherwise, we may be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Union. Here, however, I would like to explain very briefly to you what was actually going on and how we actually acted. On Monday, 7.2.2005, representatives of the Croatian Ministry of Transport began to call on the Ministry of Transport and asked why our customs would not leave their carriers with a suitable Slovenian licence on the basis of a bilateral agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia for third countries or with a CEMT licence to carry out transport operations for third countries between the Republic of Slovenia and other EU members. As we were not familiar with the Ministry of Transport with the measures of customs, we began to check the information. From the Croatian Ministry, we received a letter from the General Customs Office of the Republic of Slovenia, GCU, in which they instructed all customs offices that carriers from non-EU countries could not carry out transports between two EU members without paying the customs fee for the temporary importation of a vehicle. This should not be allowed either with these licences or with bilateral licences for third countries. After verification at the General Customs Administration, we were explained that customs had begun to implement EU Regulation No. 2004 354/93 with amendments to which Article 558 provides that the means of transport by which commercial transport is carried out in the customs territory is exempt from customs duties for the temporary importation of a vehicle: if the vehicles are registered outside the customs territory of the EU. Second, if used by persons established outside the customs territory of the EU and third, if vehicles are used exclusively for transport that begins or ends outside the customs territory of the EU. In all other cases, it is necessary to pay the customs duty for the temporary importation of the vehicle. However, the last indent of that Article provides that these vehicles may nevertheless be used in internal traffic, provided that they so require the applicable rules in the field of transport, in particular the provisions on access and implementation. For this reason, we immediately forwarded a regulation to the General Customs Administration, instructing them that undisputedly, vehicles outside the EU who have CEMT licences may allow transport without the payment of customs for the temporary importation of vehicles, since in this case it is also a multilateral convention. All other EU countries also allow these transports. Immediately thereafter, we informed the Croatian side of why the complications had occurred and on what basis. We have also sent a letter to the EU Mission of the Republic of Slovenia asking them to obtain an explanation on the Commission of the last indent of this Article of the Regulation, as I have already mentioned, in particular in the direction which are those transport rules which, within the meaning of this Article, may be regarded as exemption from the duty on temporary importation of vehicles. We have also asked for the opinion and appropriate action of the Commission on the complications that have arisen. At the time when the Republic of Croatia has adopted so-called counter-measures so that, from 16.2. onwards, Slovenian carriers with Croatian licences for third countries can load goods in Croatia and take them to other EU members, but cannot drive goods from Croatia to EU members. The same is true in the case of transport from EU member to Croatia. However, transport may be carried out by means of these licences. In practice, there have been complications at some border crossings on the Croatian side because they are customs officers [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] they explained the instructions of the Croatian Ministry of Transport and requested from Slovenian carriers CEMT licences, they also requested them if they wanted to carry out bilateral transport between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia or transit through Croatia, even though these transports are carried out without permits. That is why we have called the authorities of the Croatian Transport Ministry, which have also removed the complications by this afternoon. We have also received a reply from the Commission of the European Union, in which it is undeniably stated that carriers from a non-member country of the European Union must not carry out transport between two countries within the customs Community of the European Union without paying a duty on the temporary importation of a vehicle. This is possible only with CEMT permits. We have also informed the Croatian Transport Minister and have also proposed an early meeting of the Mixed Interstate Road Transport Commission, which will agree on further cooperation in this area. We haven't gotten any feedback yet. But the question in the second part was how we would control [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u151	I'd like you to finish your thought slowly.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u152	according to the classic procedure as laid down in the rules in Slovenia. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Would you like an additional answer? Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u154	Thank you very much, Minister, for a comprehensive and correct answer. Now, as far as the other part of these permits are concerned. Do you think that this control and the system we currently have in Slovenia is satisfactory? Is it possible for a large part of the cargo to be transported to Europe at lower, dumped prices by Croatian truckers? I think that this monitoring should be stepped up, because carriers say that in other European countries, as far as this is concerned, it is significantly more stringent, and especially if you are caught, it is significantly more expensive. I think it would be in the interest of Slovenian motorists to protect them and give them a greater share of the job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u155	Thank you so much for the subterfuge. In the first part, I would answer the following. At Thursday's meeting, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is expected to establish a so-called Inter-Resort Group, by which, on the part of all those involved in this whole area, it will ensure, in some way, the verification of the situation and the situation in force in this area, and on the basis of these verifications, the necessary measures will be followed if necessary. In the second part, the next part. Slovenia must certainly maintain the same level of control as countries in the European Union. In this case, I think that there is no need for any further major checks, but those already envisaged in principle. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u156	Thank you very much. Mrs Mag will raise the question to the Minister of the Interior, Mr Dragutin Mate. Majda Potter. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u157	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the ministers, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In recent times, there have been many speeches in public society about the abolition of registration stickers and the introduction of new passports, as well as the cancellation of the contract for the construction of passports to two Slovenian companies. The reason for such a decision by the Ministry of the Interior is the European Directive, whereby all members of the European Union are expected to introduce biometric passports that will allow visa-free entry into the United States of America and which form part of the American fight against terrorism. It appears, however, that almost no country will be able to produce additionally protected passports by a certain time, nor can it be expected to choose a uniform way. Since the Minister has announced an international invitation to tender to select the financial most favourable tenderer who will have to meet the conditions of manufacture, it is not excluded that a good deal will be obtained by a foreign company. Although there are no strong words from both companies to the public as a result of the termination of contracts, it is not clear what obligations this country will bring to the country. Otherwise, I expect that the government, because it believes that it is an illegal business, will initiate appropriate procedures and will inform us of this. However, I am particularly interested in new passports in this regard. At a time when, due to the free movement of people in the European Union, we leave the use of travel documents, such a passport is difficult to accept for a lot of people because it is a form of control over the movement of people, as well as by reducing costs for citizens and citizens, it is not compatible. Therefore, Minister Dragutin Mate, I ask you: With what delay does the government account in complying with the European Union directive on biometrics and what consequences may this have for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia? What will be the estimated price for the document, which will be cheaper than anticipated due to difficult production. [[From 130 to 300 euros is expected to move in other European countries.]] Do you expect great interest in a new passport? And: How can possible lower costs affect the price? And to conclude: Will you take care of the relevant entry of Slovenian surnames and names in the coded part of the passport in new passports? Thanks for the answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u158	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u159	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Thank you for the question, Mrs Potrat. I'll try to be as short as possible in these answers. The first question is, if we are late to introduce biometric passports according to the dates set out in the Directive, the answer is very simple: we will not be late. The dates are set in June 2006 and then Slovenia will have biometric passports or will start to issue them as provided for in the Directive. With regard to the price of passports, I must say that I cannot give you an accurate answer as to the price of these passports. There are very different prices in the media, both abroad and at home. I have spoken to several ministers in the last informal world on this subject, and they are also firmly convinced that prices will not be the same as they appear in their media. The price, given that the invitation to tender will be international, can move somewhere at the level of this price that we now have, or slightly higher. There will certainly be no significant incentives, especially not those mentioned in the media, in other countries or in us. With regard to interest in biometric passports, it is important to say that the first interest and first exchange that will take place in relation to biometric passports will certainly be for all diplomats and, of course, for citizens travelling to countries that will require biometric elements. North America, mostly. In order to travel across the European Union alone, our citizens do not in fact need a passport, they can travel with a ID card. It is also important to say that none of the citizens will need a new passport from the date of issue; it is said that an old passport or the current valid passport will remain in force until the date stated in the subsequent passport and also in agreements with the US party it is ensured that when a country starts issuing a geometric passport, citizens who do not have a biometric passport still have a visa-free system, it is important for them to start issuing such passports. With regard to the name and surname recorded in the second check zone in the passport, I must tell you that the situation will remain unchanged. Thus, the records will be made as they have been so far, we cannot practically change them, they are prescribed by a number of international agreements, all our borders are also equipped with OCRB equipment that is qualified to review these passports and obtain this electronic record. In doing so, it may only be possible to mention that other countries do not have a record of what they might want, some characters in letters disappear and, of course, in a different way write this last name, but it is essential that this system is uniform in all countries, because otherwise this electronic review of this record is not possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Madam Members, would you like to complete your response?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u161	Thank you for that part of the answer. I believe that you will choose the cheapest bidder, given that I have read in the directive, and this is more of a throw or some public opinion in a slightly different light. The Directive states that it is recommended or is one company or only one body which can issue a list and Article 3 of this Directive also states that it is advisable for Member States to connect in the issue and that two or three countries have the same passport issuer. So it's definitely on its way to why some things were carried out as they were. Now there's an addition to what you've told me about mechanical reading. The same Directive states that they recommend that the full name, that all birth data are identical throughout the passport. Since I also consider the name and surname of the birth data, I would expect the name and surname to be a characteristic as an identification recorded as it is. I have an explanation in my hands, of course, that the fourth edition of the ICAO document, which you quoted, was the fourth correction of the recommendation that they would otherwise be used for the transcription of the one-one letter, but that some letters with special characters could also be used one-two and for Ö, for Ö, for ü, for р, and for any other character that is not in the Latin script, these entries are entered and recorded in the mechanical reader. I think it was made from this point of view, at least as far as we're concerned, a mistake that we didn't insist on. And what I invite you to do is to insist on writing in the future, especially because the record in the ID card is different from that in the passport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u162	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u163	If I answer any more of these questions. First of all, the directive really mentions that countries can, and recommends that they find a common producer. However, this is not binding. The State of Slovenia does not need to be linked to any foreign company or to a foreign country in order to produce its passport. And that's not what the call is for. We will not have an invitation to tender to connect with another country and to seek with it a common producer. It is a search for the most favourable provider who will be able to produce such a number of biometric passports as we anticipate we will need them. In the government, we simply believe that such matters need to be done transparently and not under the conditions described in the regulation, which is aimed at completely different acquisitions, so to speak, weapons and other techniques. That is why we have decided to make a public tender and not to negotiate in advance with other countries that we will have one common producer. These companies, which are mentioned several times now, are also not excluded from the selection process, nor are they excluded from succeeding in such an invitation to tender. About the record itself in the machine-readable zone, as it's called. I must say, unfortunately, that the standards adopted in the past and the last coordination adopted in 1999 have led to the situation where it is now. The amendment of these records is, of course, possible, only if there is a greater consensus between countries that agreed with ICAO standards introduced in this area and it is here that the records are not identical. And you yourself mentioned a few cases where two letters are used for one letter. And so citizens, for example, in Germany, who have a two-point o, say, as a letter - their writing, then this letter is changed to o and e, so their data in this mechanically legible part is not the same as in the identity card or in the visual part. So if there are changes, we will certainly try to apply some of our specifics. I hope we're successful at this.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Mr Zvonko Černač will ask the Minister for Environment and Space, Mr Janez Podobnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u165	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Madam Ministers, in particular Mr Janez Podobnik, Minister for Environment and Space, to which I also refer the question of Parliament! In the previous term, the Government adopted a Regulation on concessions for the use of natural values for the permanent cave system and the premium cave system, which regulates concessional relations with respect to the Postojna Cave. If we ignore the fact that neither the provisions of the Government's own regulation at the Ministry of Environment and Space in the past were respected, since the regulation in the second paragraph of Article 8 explicitly states that the concession fee is payable in a relative manner at the end of the trimesters, that is, on 31 March, 30 June, 30 September and 31.12. In fact, it was paid for the first time only on 2 August 2004 and the remainder in further any four instalments, we cannot go beyond the fact that this regulation is bad and that no one is satisfied with its provisions: neither the State nor the local community nor the concessionary. The mode of paying concessions, the limited use of part of these funds to invest in tourist infrastructure and the inclusion of the resources to which the local community is entitled, in so-called, simplified, appropriate use, prevent the development of tourist activities in the area of one of Slovenia's major tourist destinations, which Postojna with Postojna Cave, Predjam Castle and other sights is undoubtedly the case. I would like to ask: Will the Ministry of the Environment and Space propose an amendment to this Regulation on the basis of the above reasons? If the answer is yes, how long can we expect this change? I also wonder: Does the Ministry of Environment and Space intend to propose an amendment in such a way that the concessionary resources obtained by the local community will, in the same way as for certain other concessions, such as in the field of gambling, be among its original revenues? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u166	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u167	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Member of the Black House! I've prepared for your question. Since we only got a question on Friday afternoon, I was able to obtain some documentation during this morning, unfortunately not everything, so that I could answer your question as comprehensively as possible. First of all, it is only a short introduction that the signature of the concession contract for the use of the natural values of the fixed and premium cave system was the first example of the award of a concession for the use of underground caves. And since it is known that underground caves have a very complex and specific natural wealth, this concession relationship had a particular weight and also meaning and it was not easy to pour it into the form of a concession contract. This concession, as has already been said, is granted under the Nature Conservation Act, in cases where the property of the State is concerned. It is also concluded in accordance with the Regulation on concessions for the use of the natural values of fixed cave systems. It also lays down conditions and procedures. The invitation to tender was opened in 2003 and on 29 May by Postojna Cave, Turizem, d.d. It shall be granted for a period of five years from the date of conclusion of the concession contract, with the possibility of renewal. I have been very careful to make this very clear statement on the question of how individual ILO representatives in the Committee on Accession Monitoring should act unlawfully if the concession was not paid within the time limits laid down by the Regulation. That's why we got records, if I have the right information, there have been five meetings of the concession monitoring committee so far. And at the 3rd and 4th sessions, I must commend the mayor, who was active, for the first time, the mayor proposed that, on the basis of the contract in force, the possibility of paying the concession fee be envisaged four times a year at the end of each quarter. It was said that the ministry or the minister did not insist on this and suggested that it should be paid on a one-time basis. At the next meeting, this was proposed again and then accepted to be paid four times. I asked for it, and I got the information you mentioned in part last year. 1.9.2004 - 22 million 500, 11.11. - 15 million, 18.12. - 10 million and the last day of the year - 126 million 30,000 tolars, that's what was paid for last year. You are also opening some other very important questions, especially as to what it means for the Municipality of Postojna, which is entitled to 50% of the concession fee due to the rules on the calculation of the so-called appropriate consumption. This is a question which has also been raised several times by the mayor at the meeting of this committee. It is a limitation that arises as a result of this in order to use these funds to invest in tourism infrastructure and to develop tourism activities. It is also a solution, which, of course, is in a way, you might say, is also a criminal or is a non-systemic and Slovenian congregation that places it in a different position. Since I am sitting here with my Minister's colleague Dr. Zhagar, who has received important competence in this area, especially in the preparation of a new comprehensive law on the financing of municipalities, this will undoubtedly be one of the issues that this law will have to resolve. I also have the data, most likely you were also aware of how the debate for 2005 is going on in some way, which projects, by what arrangements. With the participation of the profession, the maximum correct and substantive solution in 2005 would be to the envisaged investments in the Postojna Cave. That's how much I've been able to gain by this point. I hope I have at least partially answered your questions. However, we will examine fully the implementation of the regulation, especially in relation to the current law on the financing of municipalities, and if we find it necessary to change it, we will do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u168	Mr. Member, would you like an additional answer? [[No, no, ……]] Thank you very much. Mr Rudolf Moge will ask the Minister without a licence in charge of local self-government and regional policy, Dr Ivan Žagar.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u169	President, thank you so much for your word. Dear Mr. Minister, Dr. Zhagar and the other ministers are here to welcome you. On 14 July 2004, the European Commission adopted legislative proposals on the reform of cohesion policy. The total amount available amounts to EUR 336.1 billion, representing around a third of the Community budget. The reform is intended to achieve three objectives: to bring the European Union's strategic orientation closer together, to focus more on less developed regions in anticipation of development in other parts of the Union, and to decentralise and simplify their implementation, and to make their implementation more effective and transparent. The proposal for a general regulation now sets out three new objectives with respect to the previous three objectives that we all know well, namely convergence, regional competitiveness and employment and European territorial cooperation. The first objective, that is to achieve convergence, is to achieve economic convergence in the least developed regions. It is about improving the conditions of growth and employment for investment in physical and human resources, I think that "soils" can be drained on the Minister for Social Affairs, Innovation in the Society of Knowledge, the Minister for Higher Education and Technological Development, the ability to adapt to change and social change, the protection of the environment to the Minister for Environment and Space. Convergence will be particularly important in new countries where development inequalities are as large as ever, and they are also intended for efficiency of performance, which is likely to come in handy for a minister who sits here all day. In the first objective, this is what I have just stated, EUR 264 billion, representing 78% of all these funds. Funding for a region with a gross social population of less than 75% of the European Union average is allocated 67.34% or 176 billion. Slovenia has negotiated one region whose gross social product per capita will be faster than 75%, I have received new Eurostat data from 1975 to 2002 and we have already had 74.4%. Question. With what arguments will you enter into negotiations with the European Union so that Slovenia can be divided into three regions at the second level of the territorial unit classification standard and thus obtain the maximum possible amount of funding from the EU for equitable economic development and thus improve the conditions for employment by investing in physical and human resources and innovation in the knowledge society?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u171	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. Dear Member, Members! Thank you for the question, Mr Member. As already mentioned in the previous question, the activities for the territorial division of Slovenia at NUTS level 2 were carried out in parallel with the negotiations for a new financial perspective for the period 2007-2013 and are closely linked to them. In financial terms, it is certainly Slovenia's priority to achieve the most favourable result. To this end, also in the reform of cohesion policy, which you mentioned, which is also going into the final phase this year, we advocate the appropriate weight of the so-called statistical impact. Here, of course, Slovenia has significant problems because we are on the border right now, we are right now, of course, even after the latest data we can over this 75%. It also underlines the importance of cross-border cooperation, which is also now becoming so-called trans-regional projects, and some other solutions are being sought. One of these solutions, of course, is the territorial breakdown at NUTS2 level, which is not the only one, but it is not only this solution that depends on the financial impact. It is true, however, that this issue is, of course, still open from the pre-accession negotiations. In accordance with the NUTS Classification Regulation, which regulates this issue in the European Union, territorial division could be enforced by 1.1.2008 following a regular procedure. Beyond the regular procedure, which is, of course, up to date, before the start of the next programming period for 2007-2011, the cohesion regions make sense or should be implemented through a political agreement in the context of negotiations on a new financial perspective. It is therefore appropriate to continue coordination for the three territorial units at NUTS2 level, but of course there is a need to maintain a sufficiently good degree of flexibility. It depends when the negotiations are concluded. This is also an open question at this point, if they are concluded in the new financial perspective already in June 2005, then the European Commission will take account of the gross product data for the period 2000-2002, where we as a whole as Slovenia are below 75%. And in this case, we can also conduct a regular process of territorial division. However, if negotiations for a new financial perspective were not completed during this period, this issue remains more important. And now, as far as the arguments are concerned. It is essential that the NUTS classification also allows exceptions to these 800,000 people on average per Member State. Otherwise, Slovenia bases these exceptions on its geographical, historical and socio-economic reasons. However, the key argument is that, of course, by dividing itself into three regions at NUTS2 level, this would be the most effective way to deal with the problems of existing regional differences, it is said, to eliminate all these structural differences with us, as you mentioned in part, and, of course, with individual ministries.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Would you like an additional answer? Yeah.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u173	Thank you very much for your answer. You didn't answer me exactly how many parts this negotiating group was supposed to negotiate. However, I think that the Slovenian delegation in negotiations with the European Union would be better able to agree on the territorial membership of Slovenia if it had actually established administrative support, otherwise there is the impression that it is only for financial resources and not for actual regionalisation. What will you also do in this short time until June, as you said, 2005, if we do not? Whether the government will try to do something quickly to make these cohesion regions not only open boxes, but also boxes that will have some content; whether it will be our new landscapes or something like that. Because if we came up with such arguments that we had these three provinces, we would certainly have an inappropriate bargaining position in order to overcome these three cohesion regions. Dear colleagues and colleagues, look, rich Germany has six such provinces that receive this help. Rich Italy has five of them, and if you're interested, rich England, where the index 315 for London, on average, also has a province, that's Cornwall, with 70%, and it also gets these funds. If we do not help ourselves, and with the great will of all of us together, who are in Parliament, to fill these boxes until negotiations with at least some framework content and that they go with these things to negotiations, then it is the hope that we will get. But I don't know what we're gonna do if this thing isn't negotiated by June 25. Minister: What happens if there is a failure?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u174	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u175	Thank you for your word. As regards the current regionalisation, I have also talked about this in the previous question. The fact is, we've been extremely late here. And I can agree with you that if we also had the provinces at this lower level, we could use them meaningfully in this process of negotiation, but unfortunately, this is the current situation at this point. As far as the negotiation itself is concerned, I have already mentioned it. The arguments run in this direction. As regards development, above all, this is one of the key arguments, the starting points are at this point, and I agree with you, three regions at NUTS 2 level, but these are now open questions and probably more questions than can be answered at this point. As far as administrative regulation is concerned, I do not believe that it is possible to bring things forward by half a year because, in fact, the hands are too short. However, as I mentioned earlier, we will also prepare for the establishment of the provinces by the end of the year. And I think it's a very optimistic forecast, because establishing landscapes is an extremely demanding project. If it were not for such a demanding project, it would probably be possible to carry it out earlier. It is also true that there has been no real political will in the past period. And now we're in the state we're in. I believe and efforts will be made in this direction to negotiate the maximum financial benefit. However, the fact is that this benefit does not depend solely on this division is that there are many other factors that occur during the negotiation phase.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Mr Minister of Public Administration, Dr Gregor Virant, will be asked the question by Mr Miran Potrč.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Dear Minister Dr. Virant! Regardless of the increasingly loud opposition to the social partnership in Slovenia, especially in the circle of experts close to the government and in the strategic world, the government has not officially given up on the social partnership. On the contrary, my remarks to the Prime Minister at the last meeting of the National Assembly that many concrete actions do not provide assurance that the social partnership will be respected, the Prime Minister has promised respect for the social partnership. I understood, of course, that this would also apply to public sector negotiations, but again it was only a statement and the practice was different. After 14 days of the pledges made, the government, according to my information on 10 or 7 February 2005, unilaterally, contrary to the provisions of the agreement on the level of wage harmonisation and the amount of the annual leave rescheduling for 2004 and 2005 in the middle of negotiations with the unions, has itself decided on the level of wage harmonisation in the public sector for 2005. Thus, an agreement was reached for 2004 and negotiations started for 2005 and the government unilaterally terminated them and decided on its own. The UK Group of Social Democrats immediately reacted publicly and called on the government to suspend the unilateral decision, so far we do not have all the information on it. There is no doubt that the changed situation requires an agreement between the social partners and that agreements on wage policy cannot be achieved without negotiation and agreement. The unilateral decision of the government has no excuse, so I ask the competent minister, Dr. Gregor Virant, whether he will propose to the government that he withdraw a unilateral decision and continue to negotiate with the competent trade unions on public sector wage policy for 2005, in accordance with the principles of social partnership, but not with a unilateral bureaucratic dictatorship, an agreement on the level and method of harmonising public sector wages for this year?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u178	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u179	Thank you very much, Chairman. Mr. Potts. Paid reform in the public sector is, of course, one of the government's priorities and must be based on social dialogue and the ultimate objective is to ensure a uniform and transparent wage system in the public sector. The change of government should not have led to a stalemate in social dialogue and in the course of a paid project, so the government has taken three decisions in a relatively short time to continue the public sector wage negotiations, first of all to confirm that wages are harmonised by 1.25% as of 1 July 2005 and that at the same time 1.25% of wages are paid to a dedicated budget item for the elimination of wage imbalances. This is not a unilateral decision of the government. It is only the implementation of the agreement on the level and method of harmonisation of basic salaries and the amount of the annual leave rate for 2004 and 2005, which was adopted last June and which provides in Article 3, that the base is to be determined on the basis of two growth rates, namely the rate of growth in the prices of living needs in Slovenia, non-alcoholic beverages and tobacco and the increase in the prices of living necessities in the European Union. Therefore, this percentage accepted by the Government is only calculated on the basis of parameters provided by the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development. The second decision taken by the government was the text of a bill amending and supplementing the law on the public sector wage system. Although this is a matter of law and we believe that the legal regulation of the public sector wage system must also be coordinated with the social partners, so this law has only been adopted as a starting point, as a text which will be further coordinated with the unions. This law covers several important new solutions, one of which is extremely important for the continuation of the payroll project. In fact, the establishment of a specific budget heading for the elimination of wage imbalances, which will allow the wage project or the public sector to be financially neutral, so that it does not require new money, which at this point would be unsustainable for public financial reasons. Therefore, the government will insist on the agreement already adopted, so that the salaries are coordinated this year in accordance with the parameters agreed upon and calculated by the UMAR and so that the half is earmarked for a linear increase in wages and the other half is paid to a specific dedicated budget item. This has two effects. For the first time, of course, this has an anti-inflation and second time effect, allowing the elimination of wage imbalances over a longer period of time. In view of the fact that the new system will enter into force or apply when it becomes applicable, the period of elimination of wage imbalances is expected to end by law on 31.12.2009. This will mean that some jobs in the public sector will have to grow faster than others. It is for this purpose that a dedicated budget item is established. Such an agreement has already been adopted for last year's escalation, 1.7.2004, but the problem was that no specific dedicated budget item or budget has been established and there is no budget in view of these resources. They have disappeared "in the black hole", as is often the case with the integrated budget. Thus, of course, the new circumstances and added value that the amendment of the law will bring about is that money will now be collected on a specific budget item and will not be able to evaporate from there for other purposes. And I conclude, the government has also accepted the offer of indicative jobs and their classification in wage classes, which has been forwarded to trade unions. The number of indicative jobs has decreased from 250 to 90, which will facilitate collective bargaining. And according to this or on this basis, we expect that [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] You will get to the public sector collective agreement first. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u180	Thank you very much. Would you like an additional answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u181	Thank you very much. I know Mr. Secretary understands the question. I know that the questions were specific, and I know that he knows that he has not answered my question. He answered me with a lot of other interesting questions. I read something, I know something. Not on the essential issue. I agree with you, and I have also asked you about this at the presentations to consider some amendments to the law on the public sector wage system. This is your right as Minister - and you do. In this direction you have made certain offers to trade unions, this is your right and it is okay to do so. In this regard, you have also talked about changing orientation jobs, which is the right again - and you are doing so. And you'll talk about it. But I have asked you about the implementation of the wage policy agreement, where you have no right to decide unilaterally on the level of this harmonisation. Certain assumptions, mathematical, movements were given, and also the assumption that the law on the public sector wage system would be implemented. Secondly, it did not happen, and according to your Government's programme, it may happen from 1.1.2006, so not even this year. With regard to assumptions - they are indeed certain, it is only right if they are determined: for the first time, to determine whether they are accurate; and for the second time, even within these assumptions, you do not go to half to increase wages and half to the fund, but 0.20 to be given for some special purposes. Mr Virant, you have violated the agreement on wage policy in 2004 and 2005 and it would be correct to leave in the middle of the negotiations, not unilaterally, but to negotiate the third as the first two things, because there is no reason for us to take a unilateral decision now in early February, which must not be implemented until 1 July 2005. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u182	Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Mr. Potch, don't hold what you're saying. The pay harmonisation agreement for 2005 for 2004 and 2005 was concluded last July. And this agreement has determined precisely on the basis of which the parameters will align wages with 1 July 2005. And the government has only confirmed that this agreement will be implemented and that it will insist on this agreement. Of course, in the process of harmonisation of the law on the public sector wage system, new trade union requirements may arise, of course, a government negotiating group may propose a certain shift and a different decision, but this is a government decision to implement the agreement in such a way that the harmonisation is carried out as agreed on the basis of these parameters and so that for half the wages are raised linearly and for half the wages in the public sector are not raised linearly, but paid to a specific budget item. It is also in the interest of trade unions to form this fund from which wage imbalances can be eliminated, otherwise we will be in a situation where the objective of the law cannot be achieved - the gradual elimination of wage imbalances. This means that those who are undervalued in the current system and who will be valued higher in the new system could reach their target position at a certain time. Even so, negotiations have not been suspended, negotiations have continued and continued [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] I will say again: we have only taken a decision to implement an agreement last year to harmonise wages so that the government insists on the same parameters. The negotiating group will continue to negotiate and coordinate on three issues, or on two issues, if you want, one of the orientation jobs and a collective contract for the public sector; the other is the law on the public sector wage system. We offered this text to the unions, and within this text is also the height of the new starting salary or the value of the first pay grade. As it is said, it is possible that trade unions will require a different relationship, that they go more to a linear increase in wages and less to a special budget item, but we have ordered our negotiating group to insist on this logic because it is financially sustainable and because it is the only way to reach the final goal. Another way, of course, would be to increase the volume of wage funds in the public sector. This is impossible right now.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u184	Thank you very much. Mr Janez Podobniku, Minister of Environment and Space, will ask Mr Anton Kokalj a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u185	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr. Secretary. On 13 July 2004, the former Government adopted a decision establishing the consistency of the proposal for a decision amending and supplementing the spatial components, the planned acts of the municipality of Command with the mandatory starting points of the spatial components of the long-term plan of the Republic of Slovenia for the period 1986 to 2000, relating to the mandatory starting points of the spatial components of the long-term plan of the Republic of Slovenia in the area defined by this proposal of the decree as the area of the business-production zone 02/1 - the narrow part - the second phase. We note that the Ministry of Environment and Space between the submitted expert opinions on the basis of which the decision was adopted did not add an expert opinion on the impact of the changes in the spatial plan on the specific protection area referred to in Natura 2000 which lies in the immediate vicinity of the area to which the proposal for a decision relates. The change in the spatial plan of the municipality of Command, defined by the decree, will significantly change the hydrographic characteristics of the entire area, which is defined in the decree as a business-production zone, which will also affect the specific protection area included in Natura 2000. This is not the only case concerning these procedures adopted last year in the previous government - I think it is a few dozen municipalities for which the government has accepted the coherence of their components with the spatial components of the long-term plan of the Republic of Slovenia in their areas. It is noted that this is one of the cases, namely that not all expert opinions have been obtained which will allow the government to issue positive decisions on the proposed changes to the plan by the municipalities. I ask the Minister for Environment and Space, Mr Janez Podobnik: Will the Government of the Republic of Slovenia reconsider and review that decision and also obtain an opinion that has not been obtained? Will it also review the other conclusions it has issued as positive, in terms of the appropriateness or completeness of the professional opinions to be given by individual ministries? As I have already mentioned, it is a matter of a few dozen municipalities and it is a fact that, in other cases, there have not been adequate positive expert opinions on the basis of which the Government is expected to adopt positive decisions on the harmonisation of the plans proposals in the municipalities towards the starting point of the components of the long-term plan of the Republic of Slovenia in their areas.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u186	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u187	Thank you for your word. Dear Member Kokalj. We have examined the documentation relating to that decision of the Government of 13 July 2004. The date is important because then on 20 July 2004 the strategy for spatial development of Slovenia came into force. Well, this week's difference is very important. In its application for a government decision, the municipality attached the opinion of the Environmental Agency of the Republic of Slovenia on 30 June 2004. In this respect, it stated the position of the nature conservation sector that the planned act under consideration is in line with the mandatory republican origins in the field of nature protection. According to the information obtained today, this position was taken into account by the Government in its decision. Furthermore, in the same opinion, the Agency also stated that the proposed spatial arrangements were planned in the immediate vicinity of the area of the last stream in the Suhadols, which is by a regulation on special protection areas, this is the Natura 2000 area, which you also mention as a Member of Parliament for the potential Natura 2000 area and is located south of the planned change. In view of this, the Authority has pointed out that, in accordance with Article 11 of the transitional provisions of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Conservation of Nature for Plans which may have a significant impact on the Natura 2000 area, it is necessary to carry out an assessment of the acceptability of interventions to nature in accordance with Article 8 of this Regulation. Notwithstanding the fact that the Government in its decision notes the consistency of the amendments and the addition of spatial components of the planned acts of the municipality of Command with the mandatory starting points of the Slovenian spatial plan in the field of nature protection, the specific protection areas regulation has already been in force at the time of the adoption of the amendments procedure, namely Natura 2000, which implies that further planning should carry out an assessment of the acceptability of the plan to specific protection areas. What does that mean? This means that the municipality of Command is not or will not be able to avoid the process of assessing the acceptability of interventions to nature when further planning at the implementing level. In the event of the possible inadmissibility of the proposed interventions into the nature of the municipality, the municipality could not adopt a spatial implementation plan or, in accordance with the provisions of the law on the preservation of the nature of this amended law, could propose the introduction of a procedure to predominate public benefit over the public benefit of conservation of nature. This is an alternative that I have also said in this reply. On your particular question, therefore, I can conclude that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not need to reconsider the above-mentioned decision and to suspend its implementation, since it is already under the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Nature Conservation Act and on the basis of the Regulation adopted that it is already a certain assessment of the acceptability of planned interventions in nature. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u188	Thank you very much. Would you like an additional answer? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u189	Among other things, I asked whether the Ministry would also verify the consistency of the other positive conclusions with the expert opinions that had to be obtained in this process. Indeed, the fact is that the Office for Spatial Planning provided the Government with written information that the roles of certain municipalities are complete, although it is clear from the correspondence that the applications were not complete. Therefore, I propose and ask: Is the Ministry ready to verify the procedures that we know were under great weather during that period? What will be done if it is found that the Government's conclusions were not based on all the conditions on which the Government should be based in order to give positive consent to change of plans?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u190	Thanks for the extra question. I'm going to try to concentrate once again on what the problem is. In fact, the government could determine the consistency of the draft amendments and complement the spatial components of the municipal planning acts with mandatory starting points from the Slovenian spatial plan only until the implementation of the spatial development strategy of Slovenia. This was achieved by a decree on 18 June and entered into force on 20 July 2004. This was the period of the hot July when many of these changes took place, which the honourable Member now points out. On the basis of the legal interpretation that I have before me, there is no basis in the law on the regulation of the premises for the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to reconsider the decisions, not only for this municipality, but also for several municipalities of which you, the Member of Parliament, speak, and to retain its implementation in the sense of re-assessment of the conformity of the municipal planning acts with the mandatory starting points of the spatial plan of Slovenia. As a minister, however, the question is so legal and in some ways political: how can the current government remedy any erroneous findings or other errors that have obviously been made in decisions concerning changes and additions to the spatial planning acts of the municipalities. This will be one of my assignments in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u191	Thank you very much. The Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs is absent, so I ask Mrs Cveto Zalokar Orazem whether she wants to ask the question of the Member of Parliament? Please, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u192	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I ask the following questions to the Minister. The former government has expressed its support for an international project to establish an institution for equal opportunities that would work for the whole of the European Union and should be established in one of the new members. The efforts of the former government have also been noted in the European Union countries and in the European Commission, so there was a very real possibility for Slovenia to take the lead and head the Institute for Equal Opportunities, which representatives of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs have already discussed with ministers and ministers for non-discrimination and gender equality. Although the Ministry of the Office of Janez Drobnič supports the establishment of this institute in a statement for one of the Slovenian weeks, the minister also says: "In relation to the possibility of the establishment of this institute in Slovenia, I express my concerns about the financing of the Institute and the provision of staff." Such arguments point to the Minister's poor knowledge of the problem, as there is therefore no need for additional financial resources, and in my opinion there is sufficient staff in Slovenia to work in this institution. I therefore ask Minister Drobnič, given that this matter will be decided on in these days: Does he support the idea of Slovenia taking the lead and the seat of the Institute for Equal Opportunities? Ter: Why has Minister Drobnic stopped negotiations with the European Union authorities according to our information to establish an institution for equal opportunities in Slovenia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Mr Environment and Space Minister Janez Podobniku will ask Mr Mag a question. Tomaž Strabe. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u194	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honorable High Council of Ministers, dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues. For the Minister of Environment and Space, I have prepared a question or a pain that plagues us, all the owners of the property and also the congregation. The former governments have not addressed the issue of the non-constitutionality of the compensation for the use of building land, and instead the municipalities have committed themselves by means of temporary law to the introduction of additional taxes on unpaved buildings, parts of such land and the like. I ask you, Mr Minister, when and how will you address the issue of compensation for the use of building land, eliminate the unconstitutionality of the current regulation of this area and properly address this issue, provided for by the real estate tax law, in the light of the example of other European countries? Although you have inherited a poor or unfinished work planned for the entire mandate of the previous governments in the previous term of the National Assembly. Therefore, accept the matter with kindness. I know there's a lot of problems. I also know - and we have been expecting in the congregation for at least four years, now for the fourth year that the real estate tax law will be passed. As I said before, instead of passing the law, the former governments have adopted transitional provisions on the law on substitution or on the law on land itself, by which they have enforced or also forced certain congregations to now collect all data on the non-painting or work of the building’s land as well as on the buildings themselves. This is a major problem because the records are not only within the jurisdiction of the municipalities but also of the countries and are very disorderly. This is precisely what the previous government or ministry has done to prepare the government and to adopt the law, but despite strong predictions, it has not been implemented. The equality before the law under Article 14 of the Constitution with this compensation for the use of building plots, as has been established for many years, has been violated because the buildings and now the land are scored irrespective of their actual value or usefulness. For the old house, for example, you pay the same as for a brand-new house with the same quantitative data. Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u195	Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u196	Thank you for your word. Dear Member of the State, Mag. Sorry, I accept your question kindly. The area of compensation for the use of building land is very complex, especially well known not only by owners, but also by owners, especially by all those involved in the financing of municipalities, especially by the mayors. In five short points, I'll try to answer your question. First of all, the Constitutional Court has ruled on the constitutionality of this institution on several occasions and has found in its decisions that the Institute itself is not in conflict with the Constitution. It has also repeatedly pointed out in its explanations that the legal basis for the obligation to pay is not the right to use building land in social property, but the direct use of walled and non-walled building land. Another time. As long as the old law has been in force, this is the Law on Building Lands, and this is the year 1984, it is stipulated that this compensation is paid from a walled and unwalled building land. This means: although a few minor amendments have been made to the law recently, the basic obligation is already laid down by the basic law. Third time. Contrary to the law, however, those municipal decrees on compensation for the use of building land which impose such an obligation also on public economic infrastructure facilities, as they ensure both the provision of land for construction and the operation of buildings already built. This is a very serious problem, for some congregations have found themselves in the face of a financial breakdown as a result of this Constitutional Court decision, which found this illegality. Fourth time. Since it was simply not possible, even the previous government failed to eliminate one of the very important sources overnight, we can also say funding for the municipalities, as well as the law on the financing of municipalities, the new government started reforming the current tax system. We have started with the preparation of appropriate new regulations, including the new law on the financing of local communities and other provisions, which will provide that, on the date of their entry into force, the remuneration for the use of building land will be stopped. And the fifth time. What about until then, Mr. Ambassador, what do you ask? What about the interim period until the tax system is put in place, the new tax system? The government will also prepare a simplification of the current system in the area of remuneration, by preparing urgent legal novelties for the local government and regional policy, along with the financial and government services I manage. On the basis of these decisions, it could be ensured that indirect supervision of the adoption of municipal compensation decisions could be ensured, as well as appropriate guidance that such decisions would not be contrary to the rules. Such solutions began very intensively in December as soon as the new government was formed. And even in accordance with the Government's work programme we have started, we have already approached the improvement of real estate records and the development of methods of mass valuation of real estate on the basis of market value. This is one of the grounds on which we will be able to update existing but not mutually agreed tax legislation and try to link it into a unified system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u197	Do you want no more? [[...]] Thank you very much. The Minister for Education and Sport is absent. Does Mr Ljubo Germič want to ask the question? Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u198	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues! At the press conference, which was prepared at the time of the invitation to enroll in secondary school, the Minister said that there were fewer places available at the high schools this year for the first time. The percentage of entry places is estimated to be 35.5%, while last year it was 38.2%. Thus, the Minister expressed his belief that the so-called cultural shift in response to the wishes and pressures of children and parents would reduce the imbalance between professional and technical and high school programmes, as Slovenia felt that the Minister was not rich enough to educate people who were unemployed later and that the Minister had listened to the economic needs of the measure. A more accurate review of the registered places speaks differently because, given the smaller number of children who will graduate from primary school this year, the number of vacancies in all types of high school programmes is even higher than last year. If we take into account the reduction in enrolment rates in high school programmes by 106, with a reduction in the number of children completing primary school programmes by 626, we see that this is 17%, while the percentage of the high school population in the total population is 35.5%. Since such an interpretation of data can be regarded as information intended to make an impression that specific figures demented, I ask the Minister of Education and Sport: How does he explain the differences between his interpretation of admissions to high school programmes and the real numbers of admissions to high school programmes that do not confirm what Mr Minister has stated? I would ask, Mr President, if the Minister can give me an oral answer to this question at the next or at one of the next meetings when he is present. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u199	Thank you very much. To the Minister of Health, a specialist at the academic level, Andre Bručan, he will ask the question of Mr Geza Juban.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u200	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Question to the Minister of Health concerning the selection and appointment of the new Director of the General Regional Hospital in Murska Sobota. The term of office of Dr. Bojan Korosc expired at the end of January. The competent authority carried out the invitation to tender in due time and after the invitation to tender addressed the applications which were where Dr. Korošec received absolute support, I believe 8 to 0. Although Dr Korošec had such support, he was not confirmed as the director of the General Hospital in Murska Sobota, even more so, he was deprived of all his powers at the end of his term of office. There is a new invitation to tender and, of course, then we are interested in your decision, Mr Minister. Will you be a candidate who enjoys full support within the hospital - we both know the letters of two unions operating within the hospital in Murska Sobota - support for mayors, even some mayors of the Democratic Party support it, and support in an environment where Dr. Korošec has proved to be an extremely professional, working, cooperative director within Murska Sobota Hospital, including with the appropriate qualification for such management and we are interested: How will the story unfold? We would like to know: How will you, Mr. Minister, act once you have made your decision again, will you support Dr. Korosca as the director of the hospital in an environment in which he enjoys high support? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u201	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u202	I am pleased, Mr Member, to ask your question that I can actually answer some of the problems in this regard publicly here. The Council of the General Hospital of Murska Sobota has in fact adopted a decision, following the tender procedure, appointing Mr Bojan Korošc as Director, as has already been said here. Members of the Council, it is said, including the founder's representatives, including the President of the Council, were asked at the time, because it was during the transitional period of the formation of the new government to postpone the appointment for as long as the scheduled visit to the hospital was not taken into account, but the founder's proposal was not taken into account. On the contrary, they even stated that they did not see any reason for this. Well, I made this visit later at Murska Sobota Hospital and found that actually from some financial point of view there is some minimal loss, but the hospital relations are not as good as you said here. On the basis of this conclusion and on the basis of the subsequent new Council of the Institute, it was found that the situation at Murska Sobota Hospital cannot be resolved by the management of this hospital so far. The findings also referred to the political management of this hospital in the last eight years, but it is always, as you know, relatively difficult to realistically judge. I have taken the support that you mentioned as possible from the union, of course, seriously, but I must tell you that at the same time there is also opposition from many other organisations, including the Medical Chamber and, to a large extent, the local environment. The government has considered a proposal I have made not to extend the current Director's mandate in such a situation. The Board of the Institute then adopted the decision at its meeting on 11.2.2005 to re-sign the post of Director. At the same time, the world of the institution was also named V.D. Director. In this case, I think that there is no reservation at the time of the recommitment that the current Director does not reapply, but in peace, as we originally anticipated, we will conduct all the necessary interviews and then we will decide for the Director who will be the most suitable and will meet all the criteria, not only the criteria of one union, this is probably not enough for the post of Director. On this occasion, I would like to say that in no way do I intend to act politically as Minister in this area, as regards the appointment of individual directors. Here I intend to follow the professional criteria, but always take into account the opinion of the environment in which this city will be described. This is quite contrary to what happened before. And it was from these environments, where the most comments are now coming from, that it has been all the time to feel this political recruitment, which, of course, has also been happening in this environment in the last eight years. I think and I hope that I have answered this particular question in part. However, I would also like to respond to some of the suggestions regarding the appointment of boards of institutions. In any event, we will not suspend the institution’s world prematurely, where it can be cooperated with. On the contrary, as was the case in the previous mandate, when the Council of the Clinical Centre, which we appointed in 2000, was immediately terminated immediately after the new government was formed in December 2000. This way we will be completely different in this regard, and above all, we will look at the situation in a particular institution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u203	Would you like an additional answer? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u204	Thank you very much. At that time some members of the board of the institution were replaced, among others our colleague Feri Horvat, and of course they made the decision as you wished, but they were replaced, so that they would not accidentally repeat that they were not politically replaced. You say you will not use political criteria. What kind of hospital relationships aren't good? Rarely is a collective where everyone is satisfied, or nowhere is it likely in the world: But where is it that relationships in the hospital are not good? It was the hospital union, the nurses' union and the independents who wrote us - also other fellow MPs from Pomur we received the same letter - that Dr Korošec was the one who had established good relations in the past. Some of us remember long ago that relationships were much worse in some periods. What did Dr. Korošec politically lead the hospital? Because he built it in all these years and put it into a positive business? It's not political leadership for me! However, it happens to belong to a political party, because we keep saying that there is no democracy without political parties, and we keep listening to how professional recruitment will be, but this time the problem is that some who have professional references will fall out of such appointments. I think I've asked a few more questions.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u205	Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u206	Thank you very much for this supplement, but I have not heard any substantive additional questions - given what I have already answered. In fact, he received written support, colleague Korošec, from one union - I told you this earlier. However, I have told you before that he has received opposition from a whole range of other organisations in this area, mainly from the Medical Chamber and also from local authorities. That is why I decided on the basis of the previous explanation that I gave you here, that I wanted to consult the former director before appointment or non-namement, with the previous board of the institution, but they did not allow me to do so, but they forced this setting into some transitional period with internal threats to individuals who are employed in this hospital, that if they vote differently, such and other sanctions would come. Maybe you don't know that, and I know that. That's why I decided to move this appointment to a quieter time. That's what happened now. Of course, I couldn't even answer that. Of course, I have to say something else that, at this time, the Mursophospouse maternity ward is still closed, that in the Mursophospouse maternity ward, new ones, they don't accept births and that they don't know exactly what's going to happen to this maternity ward in the future. Of course, this is not a good sign of hospital management. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u207	Thank you very much. To the Minister of Environment and Space, Mr Janez Podobnik, Minister of Justice, Dr Lovr Šturm and Minister of Finance, Mr Andrej Bajuk will raise the question of Mr Rudolf Petan. I would like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that you all have 5 minutes to respond.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u208	Thank you for your word. This one's very sharp. A question sent to these ministers, I should have mentioned at least one more, but it's already too much. I am asking about the business and residential building Trzin, Motnikova 1, on plot number 12-44/73 KAO Trzin, so-called "City". I ask the following, distinguished ministers, whom, of course, I welcome. How is it possible that married Rijavec, the owner of the building, sell apartments which, despite checking on the land book - specifically 12.4.1997, where it was found to be free, sale - and notarly certified contract this and this cannot be entered into the land book because of the separation of both partners? The purchase was made by an authorized house of Ilirik, Real Estate. Also the official declaration by Notary M. K. of 19.11.1998, this is almost two years later, still says that it is a free burden, so it is possible to enter the land book. This means that the statement of this notary is false or false, according to home. In doing so, it is not possible to obtain data from the municipality of Domžale whether the owners received any municipal funds from the municipality - requested from 26.3.2004. Despite the impossibility of entering the land book, customers are not owners, and the tax administration of the Republic of Slovenia, the Ljubljana office, the Domžale exhibition, the purchasers of apartments regularly charge compensation for the use of building land - I have all the necessary documentation for this - the same institution charges the property tax. I've got the paperwork for that, too, and everything else I've written. How is it possible for the District Court in Domžal to tender the same apartments and 5.1.2004 paid by the buyers through the authorised real estate agencies cannot be entered in the sales book? Would it be possible to enter the book of the land for the second time? And: Is the court not acting as a unconscious owner, and is misleading potential buyers? I ask the question to all three ministers: How is this possible if we are a rule of law? Is it not an example that the institutions of the State are also involved in unusual transactions? And finally, which is why I also ask the question: What is the solution for the deceived buyers, who are a few ten? They were examples, they brought me documentation, and for everything I said, I also have the appropriate documents. And I would ask for an answer, anyone who dares and tries to answer me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u209	Please, Mr. Environment Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u210	Very briefly, because then your colleagues Dr. Sturm and Dr. Bayuk will answer. Some of the information you have said, Mr Petan, is such that in my view the matter should also be up-to-date or forwarded to the Constitutional Court. Here the constitutional rights of some of the individuals you spoke about were violated. With regard to the station I run, I would only say that the building permit for the construction of this facility was issued in 1988, according to the information I have, or that there are unfinished premises on the ground floor; that the judge for the offences of the offender has already punished. And since investors, despite the inspection measures, began to use the facility, the inspector banned the use of the facility in 2001. In spite of the investor’s continued use of the facility, the inspector issued a decision authorising the enforcement of the inspection decision by way of a financial penalty. I would just like to say here that in order to prevent such and similar cases referred to by my colleague Petan, in 2003 we adopted a special law on real estate mediation in the National Assembly to address the issue of real estate intervention. More specifically, they will be answered by a fellow minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u211	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister of Justice, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u212	Thank you. Your Honor! For a little while. In the conduct of the enforcement procedure, the Court is bound by the protection of the interests of creditors who have acquired claims on the basis of the judgments. According to the court, it did not mislead any potential buyers by selling at auction for the following reasons stated by the court. The sales order clearly shows what is the subject of the sale. The Law on Enforcement and Insurance requires the court to enter before the opening of a public auction the properties which are the subject of sale. The estimated value of the property concerned, i.e. the entire business building, is 110 million, which means that the potential buyer will be the person involved in the purchase of real estate and therefore is aware of what it means to purchase such real estate. In addition, it has the possibility of looking into a file that is also used by serious buyers of real estate in practice. However, it must be said that the Ministry of Justice cannot obtain concrete data on this matter at this time, because the executive files are in the Constitutional Court for the purpose of resolving the constitutional complaint of third parties as owners of apartments.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u213	Thank you very much. Would you like a word, Mr. Minister of Finance?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u214	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Petan! My answer will make things even more complicated. The fact is that, in this particular case, we checked the data available to the General Office of the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, that the actual compensation was made on the basis of Article 61 and 62 of the Law on Building Lands and the Order of the Municipality of Domžale and later, in 2003, as well as the Municipality of Trzin. The obligation to pay the compensation for the use of the building land is defined in the Building Lands Act, which provides that the liable person is to be compensated by a direct user of the land or building or by part of the building holding the right of disposal or owner, the tenant of the apartment or the place of business, the owner of the apartment right. The obligation to pay the refund is not bound by the entry into the Land Book. That's the law. On the basis of the sales contracts submitted to the Domžale exposition, a tax on property on land was also imposed in accordance with Articles 14, 15 of the Citizens' Tax Act. The taxation of property is regulated by the Civil Tax Act, which provides that a taxable person is entitled to a tax on buildings and places of rest or recreation, owner or user. The obligation to pay the tax is not bound by the entry into the land book in this case as well. Therefore, it follows from the above that it is not possible to link the issue of the purchase of the property that has been burdened, which makes it difficult for the owners of these apartments to enter property rights into the Land Book with the obligation to pay taxes or other compulsory duties imposed on the owner or the user of the property. Where's the solution? I work in this house, too. The non-compliance of all these laws is evident. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u215	Thank you very much. Would you like an additional answer? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u216	Thank you for your word. I wanted to ask: Does this mean that there is something wrong with the law? If it's possible that one thing you can't put in a land book, all other rights and duties come from that. But I would also like to have Dr. Sturm explain it to me personally, and I'm sure he'll be interested in all these quasi owners, because they're not real owners. Why wasn't the court deceiving? If the court sells certain objects which have been certified by the notary, the contracts are signed, that is to say, they are owners and they also pay obligations. On the other hand, it is not possible to enter the land book, and now the court would resell them by auction. Will it now be possible to write into the land book, or will it again, according to the household statement, “wherever it comes from, ” and remain in front of the land book again? They will have everything and virtually none, because there are still a lot of other things about inspection services, but with these I didn't want to kill you because the matter is already too complicated anyway. Nevertheless, it is not clear to me, but it is even less clear to those people who have turned to me and there are many. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u217	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u218	Thank you for your word. If I may briefly answer that question. Every buyer has to see for himself if he's not on the property he's buying, maybe a mortgage. If it's a mortgage, of course, it's something that should keep him from buying real estate. It is true, however, that the notary should be the one who should play his role here and at least what it is, I can promise that in this case we will review this notary business. However, as I said, I do not have specific information because the executive discharges are currently in the Constitutional Court. But we will pay more attention to this matter.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u219	Thank you very much. Mr Juret Zupan, Minister for Higher Education, Science and Technology, will be asked a question by Mr Pavel Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u220	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! My question to the Minister for Higher Education, Science and Technology, Dr. Juret Zupan, is that ICAN - Internet cooperation assignment and numbers - is an organisation that runs the Internet at the so-called infrastructure level. On 22 December 2004, ICAN sent its strategic plan to the public. The public debate is open until 28 February 2005. The operation of the ICAN, which was referred to by the US Ministry of Economy, is crucial to the operation of a complex system of the global network, on which more and more activities are being carried out at individual, business and government levels. My question: Has the Government of the Republic of Slovenia appointed its representative to a government advisory body called GAC? And: What is the position of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia towards this strategic plan? Who Is As an Official Representative of the Government [[if it's anyone at all]] is the European Commission Directorate for the Information Society and Media? And: What is Slovenia's position on the EU's response to the ICAN strategic plan? Has the Government of the Republic of Slovenia carried out any public consultation of the interested professional public in order to form definitive views? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u221	Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u222	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Gantar. In essence, there are five questions and I will answer all questions on points, because they are more technical in nature, let me read the answers. The first question is whether the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has appointed its representative as a government advisory body. The advisory body at ICNN was appointed Mr Davor Šoštar from the Ministry of Information Society. The letter of appointment was held by Ambassador Cyril Stokl at the secretariat of the GAC, and it is not customary for such appointments to be carried out by government decisions, so the RS Government did not consider the appointment at its meeting. The appointment procedure was carried out in accordance with normal practice. Secondly, what is the Government's position on the ICNN strategic plan. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia did not directly address the strategic plan for a very simple reason. The Internet cooperation assessment and numbers is an international organised non-profit corporation and not an international organisation. The only focal point where ICAN comes in contact with the interests of individual countries is the GAC consultative body in which the Republic has its representative. So this is the point where you have to, not the government. Third point, who, as an official representative of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, attended a meeting at the High Level Internet Governance Group with the Directorate of the European Commission for the Information Society. Answer. At the meeting for information companies and the media, we asked the Permanent Representation of the Republic of Slovenia to the EU - that is, their representatives. Fourth time. What are Slovenia's views, what is the position of the representative of Slovenia? As a consultative body since Slovenia was a member of the GAC, i.e. since June 2003, this organisation has not addressed any strategic plan, but representatives from EU Member States have addressed specific points of both the strategic plan and their views on them on several occasions. The Slovenian representative has always participated in these proceedings and does not deviate from the opinion of the other members. Slovenia supports the principled priorities of the strategic plan and is also prepared for certain formal actions resulting from the plan, but excluded in a manner and extent to which the majority of Member States will make sense. It is an example, for example, of the relationship between ICAN and top-level domain managers, i.e. how top state domains behave because Slovenia actively cooperates with the European association of the Centre. And B, the Commission of the European Union has appointed a special group of high-level representatives from its Member States, which has also dealt with issues of a strategic plan, particularly in those points where possible confrontations with different ideas are found. The Slovenian representative participated in this group and our views were aligned with these views. And the answer to the fifth question. Has the Government of the Republic of Slovenia carried out any consultations with the interested professional public on the establishment of a definitive position? Due to a specific problem, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has not conducted a formal public consultation with the interested professional public, but the Slovenian member of the ICAN held several discussions and consultations with Slovenian experts from that area and with representatives of the organisations directly concerned.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u223	Would you like an additional answer? Thank you very much. We have three more questions, all of which are addressed to the Minister for Education and Sport, who is absent. I ask Mr Mitja Slavinc first, does he wish to ask the question of the delegation? Yeah. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u224	Thank you so much for saying that. I will ask the question and then at the next meeting I expect an answer, given the absence of the Minister. In part, however, the question also relates to the content of the question raised before me by my colleague, Mrs Pozsoncev, which is the organisation of preschool education. In particular, in lower-level municipalities, this phenomenon occurs, as in these cases a disproportionate proportion of their budget should be allocated to co-financing and self-financing of pre-school education. In some cases, this share reaches even one third of the eligible consumption of the municipality, and given that such a large proportion should then be allocated to pre-school education, it remains relatively small for development projects, which is, of course, negatively reflected in the economic and general development of individual municipalities. In view of this, the problem is also two-layer: on the one hand, because of lower economic development, they receive less money into the budget itself, and on the other hand, the economic power of parents is consequently lower and the share that municipalities have to co-finance is relatively higher than in more developed municipalities. For this reason, I ask: Does he have any action on this issue and the elimination of the imbalance? If the answer is yes, I continue to ask: In what way? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u225	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Borut Saiovic ask a question? Yeah. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u226	Thank you very much, very rarely present, Mr. Chairman! My question is mainly about municipalities like, say, the market, 15 thousand people, and we're dealing with the idea of establishing a high school or we're thinking about whether we actually have a chance or not. That's why my question to the honourable Lord is mag. Next: What policy will the Government or the competent ministry adopt with regard to the establishment of dislocated secondary schools in local communities that do not yet have them? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u227	Thank you very much. And the last question put by Mr Rudolf Moge is equally addressed to the Minister for Education and Sport, who is absent today. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u228	Thank you so much for saying that. The Honourable Minister and the absent Minister, Dr. Milan Zver. The Coalition Treaty states that you will end the optional external verification of knowledge, as well as in the media, you have repeatedly said that external verification is too expensive, so you will terminate it. All the professional design that has been developed since 1991 has been foreseen and sought in their professional explanations. In the White Paper, which included the majority of experts in the preparation of the solutions, I can read that this design also provided for non-selective external knowledge verification after the first and second triads of the elementary school. It is also a verification aimed at informing the child of his or her work, and on the basis of this verification, the children, teachers and parents should be informed of the situation of the evaluated child in the entire child population. Since it is an obvious professional question because the professions or representatives of the various professional guidelines and concepts have already defined and have clearly stated that such knowledge verification is reasonable and necessary, and because we also monitor the external checks carried out by the educational institution and the analysis by the national external audit commission show that the results, the external verification opinions are such that the solutions do not contradict but, on the contrary, they support. And since, lastly, you have proposed an amendment to the SDS when adopting school legislation, which proposed that at the end of the first, second and third periods further practical expression in music and visual education, I ask you: What professional arguments do you make to end the external verification of knowledge that is completely optional for children and parents and serves only as feedback to students, teachers and parents about their work and knowledge? Can you explain which experts and experts you rely on in this regard and how in targeted, process-oriented learning plans other European countries control knowledge standards? In your opinion, what positive effects have you seen of such an end to external verification, given that the profession, when dealing with an eight-year single primary school from the time of socialism, has sought to introduce such optional external trials that do not affect the student's price, but merely provide all actors with feedback? Thank you so much for listening to me. The Bosonogi philosopher from Nazareth said, "The first will be the last and the last will be the first." The first one was the one who started it, and I'm the first one to end it. Thank you so much and everyone for a nice evening!
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-21-SDZ4-Redna-03.ana.u229	Thank you very much. I note that the list of the intended questions is exhausted. I thank the Prime Minister and the ministers for the answers given. I hereby conclude this agenda item and at the same time interrupt the 3rd meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. Good night!
