ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, because it is time for this, I propose that we proceed with the 8th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that you are detained and that today's meeting cannot be attended by a Member: Mr Josip Bajc and Mr Dušan Kumer by 2 p.m. We're moving to 2. Agenda item - Second defence of the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Mortgage and Invalidity Insurance. I salute Mr Drobnik among us. The total time of the debate is 3 hours and 15 minutes. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation. I assume this is Mr. Petty Officer, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The government proposes to amend and supplement the law on pension and disability insurance in particular in order to halt the downward trend of pensions. Over the past four years, more than 6 percent of pensions have been left behind for wage increases. The current proposals do not mean a step back from the 1999 pension reform, but they do put the pension system back on track, which was mapped out by the reform and then turned it off because of the changes in the way in which pensions adopted in the previous government mandate were coordinated. The 1999 reform of pension and disability insurance was drawn up in the form of a gradual transition to a more sustainable system of pension and disability insurance. There is still a gradual deterioration in the conditions for obtaining a pension and a reduction in its rate of replacement compared to wages. With the consent of the social partners, a view was adopted to fully align pensions according to the growth of the average wage per employee in the reform of pension and disability insurance. The former government withdrew from this position and amended the law in December 2000, 2001, 2002 and 2003 to reduce liabilities to pensioners. This bill reintroduces the harmonisation of pensions according to the growth of the average wage per employee in the country. That's how the pensions will be aligned twice. For the first time in February, given the percentage of wage increases in the previous year and for the second time in November, the average monthly salary from the beginning of the year to September exceeded the cumulative monthly average of wages for the previous year. In both coordinations, pensioners will be charged from the beginning of the year. The bill also introduces a fuse, after which pensions, together with a bill, cannot be increased more than the average salary paid for this year. We propose a gradual abolition of the censorship to obtain the right to work on a widow's pension to an old age or a disability pension going to a widower or a widower on the basis of his own insurance. The maximum allowance should not exceed the amount that would have been given from the average pension and the total amount of the widow's pension and share of the widow's pension should also be limited. The draft law fully regulates the range of beneficiaries, the dosage and coordination of the annual monetary allowance. We also set the starting amount for this year at the level of the last paid supplement increased by 8261 tolars. In the coming years, the supplement will be coordinated for at least as much as pensions. By deleting the provisions on the reduction of pension according to certain pension incomes which have not yet reached the age of 63 and 61, a number of issues and inconsistencies will be eliminated if this provision is actually implemented. A complementary proposal for a law also proposes to supplement the arrangements for collection, recovery and records of contributions so that the system is more transparent and efficient. In recent times, a lot of comments have been made on the records of contributions paid to pension and disability insurance. This is also an additional provision and an arrangement that will make the system more transparent and oblige employers to manage their contributions more responsibly. The proposed changes to the organisation of the institution have been subject to a very in-depth and occasionally heated debate with the social partners. The initial proposal has therefore changed significantly, and now neither the government nor any other social partners have a majority in the world of institutions. Out of a total of 27 members, the government appoints only 10 members, 6 members appoint unions representing the territory of the State, 4 members appoint actual associations at the level of the State, 5 members appoint associations or organizations of pensioners at the level of the State, one member [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] persons with disabilities at national level and, of course, one of the employees of the institution. [[...]] Dear Members and Members! Following the presentation of these amendments and the completion of the pension law, several comments were received to undermine the long-term sustainability of the pension and disability insurance system. That is why we are in cooperation with other resources and trained institutions [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u3	Mr. Secretary, time.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u4	prepare a strategic report on suitable and sustainable pensions in Slovenia for the period until 2050. [[...]] The report presents long-term demographic projections and proves that also by coordinating pensions according to the overall wage growth, we can implement the envisaged economic development strategy and [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u5	Mr. Minister, please stick to the time frame.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u6	The European Union, after which a Member State must protect older people from poverty and provide them with an adequate standard of living. [[..]] The report is ready and will be presented in public. We are aware of the poor demographic forecasts resulting from the decline in fertility in recent decades [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u7	Mr. Secretary, time's up. Please, let's stick to the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u8	Yeah, I think we've got another 10 minutes, government, and could I use those minutes?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u9	You'll have a chance then. Let us listen to the committee, let us listen to the Members, and you will have the opportunity [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u10	Thank you very much. Mr President, I will respect this decision of yours. I propose, of course, that you adopt the law in the text before you. Thank you very much. I'm sorry if I've run out of time.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u11	Thank you very much. I invite the Chairman of the Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs, the disabled as a working mother to present the report of the Committee. Mr. Brenčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, colleagues, distinguished Mr. Secretary! The competent parent working body, the Labour Committee, the family, social affairs, the disabled, is discussed at the 6th serious meeting on 23.6.2005. It is known that the draft law was drafted by the Government and submitted to Parliament after a regular procedure. Representatives of the proposer, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly and representatives of the Pension and Disability Insurance Office participated in the work of the Committee. The Committee took note of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the Committee on Budgetary Control and other public finances, the opinion of the Commission of the State Council on Social Activities, the comments of the Ombudsman and the views of the Economic and Social Council. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 27 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Legislative and Legal Service examined that draft law in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Slovenia and made comments on Articles 4, 7, 8, 9, 11, 17, 24, 29, 33, 34 and 35. Only one amendment has been tabled by qualified candidates, namely Article 24 under the heading of the coalition groups. The members of the committee also took note of the oral additional explanation of the bill, as they had just heard before, so I will not repeat it. The President of the Committee on Budgetary Control and Other Public Finance presented the opinion of that Commission, which considered the bill in question to be an interested working body. The treatment of the working body concerned was based on the public-financial effects of changes in pension legislation in relation to the impact on the overall economic situation in the Republic of Slovenia. In the debate, the members of the Commission focused mainly on the long-term sustainability of the pension system resulting from the proposal for a law. In particular, the President of the Commission drew attention to the additional funds needed for cash pension and disability insurance due to the proposed amendments to the law. Even before the discussion of the individual articles began, the chairman of the committee in the introductory debate raised the issue related to the proposal by the amendment of the Liberal Democracy Club, which was to become the amendment of the Committee to Article 11. Given its purpose, this proposal would be more relevant to Article 7 and its content, depending on the content or concept of the bill, deviates from the basic starting points and content proposed by the Government. As far as we would approach the concept as proposed by this amendment, this amendment would make sense in its content in relation to Rule 122 of the Rules of Procedure in terms of the general treatment of the national assembly. Nor did the Government's representative support for the amendment proposed by the Liberal Democracy Group. In a long controversial debate, the members of the Committee, by a majority of votes, identified themselves until this amendment by not summarizing it. In the context of the discussion on the individual articles of the proposed amendment law, the Committee adopted the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 24 and drafted and adopted its amendments to Articles 4, 7, 8, 11, 17, 18, 19, 24, 29, 33 and 35 on the basis of the debate and opinion of the legislative and legal service. With the adoption of these amendments, the draft law also dealt with and resolved all the issues raised by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. Of course, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the Committee also decided on all the articles of the draft law and adopted all the articles. In view of all that has been adopted on the working body, it is substantively entrenched in the complementary draft law which forms part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u13	Thank you very much, Mr. Brenčič. Following the presentation of the positions of the parliamentary groups, I invite the representative of the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club, Master Squikla, to present the position of this group.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u14	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament, Mr Minister. On behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club, I will present my position on the law on amendments and additions to the law on pension and disability insurance. In particular, I will present our additions to the law, in particular the proposal to introduce a new annual supplement and explain our vote. We presented and forwarded our proposal on the home committee to all the members of the groups because we wanted to provide two with a proposal for a new annual supplement. First time. Ensure that those with smaller pensions will receive more because obviously the coalition has decided that we have higher funds in public finances. Another time. In order to ensure long-term sustainability of the pension fund and intergenerational solidarity through the proposed coordination through the annual allowance. First, it is ensured that we have prepared seven classes of pensions from the lowest to the highest. A maximum new annual allowance is foreseen for the minimum pensions. According to our proposal, pensioners with the lowest pension would receive up to 120 thousand tolars of an annual supplement, which is more than they receive now or 30,000 tolars more than the government proposes, as is evident from this picture. Secondly, coordination and in line with public finances shall be ensured by ensuring that the decision on the annual allowance is taken each year when the relationship between salaries and pensions and rates of economic growth is established. The National Assembly would decide on the amount of the annual allowance at the time of adoption of the State budget in a similar manner as the amount of the co-financing of the pension allowance. In the Liberal Democracy, we are aware that today's proposed amendments and additions to the law on pension and disability insurance have an important impact on the future of Slovenia and on the position of pensioners in the Republic of Slovenia. We agree with independent analyses that the existing coordination of pensions needs to be upgraded, while taking into account the capacity of the state budget and the pension allowance, as the government says, of unaltered contributions rates. We will be happy to examine what the government is predicting that it has finally done and to discuss this further. However, we have approached this problem by proposing a new instrument, an annual supplement whereby those who have fewer should receive more and thus follow the need to improve the social situation of the largest number of pensioners. This ensures a decent life for all, present and future generations of pensioners and pensioners. We are not in favour of a headlong introduction of indexation, thus preventing present and future generations from peace security and preventing the sustainability of pension payments. It is likely that today's proposals will require a new, even sharper pension reform within a few years. The instrument we are proposing would reduce the difference between final payments to pensioners with the lowest and highest pensions. In substance, this proposal is linked to what is being implemented by most countries within the European Union and elsewhere. This is an integral part of the reforms of the pension treasury and also in Slovenia the logical continuation of the reforms already implemented. Our proposal is in favour of both pensioners and the active working population. The proposed regressive annual allowance, which, unlike indexation and the current annual supplement, allows for no greater social differences between pensioners with low pensions and those with high pensions. There is no doubt about the difference in terms of the government proposal. Pensioners for the lowest pensions would get up to 30,000 dollars more. As the Government's proposal shows, however, the government's proposal gives more to those who already have a much higher pension. And you can see that from another picture. The government raises pensions by indexing mainly for those who have the highest pensions. We do not believe that it is appropriate that, according to the Government's proposal, pensioners with the highest pensions would receive an additional one pension of the lowest pensioners, whereas those with the lowest pension would not receive an additional one-quarter of their pension at the time of indexation. We propose that the parliamentary groups consider our proposal and thus ensure an improvement in the income position of the largest number of pensioners and therefore propose that we discuss this in these days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u15	Thank you very much. I would like to invite Mr Matjaz Han to present the position of the Group of Members of the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u16	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, the House of Honor! The law before us has received a number of reactions in public. The truth of the matter must be told that the responses were mostly more or less critical and from mild warnings to strong opposition. Almost all economic professions have been opposed to the law; both economists who are generally unfriendly to the government and those who sit in its strategic world, both older economists and younger generation economists, both public finance experts and Democrats. Trade unions and employers also had ideas. Pension organisations, government and coalition parties, especially DeSUS, remained on the side of the law advocates. The government, as we are accustomed to, is not willing to listen to anyone in stubborn insistence on its decisions, nor is it willing to listen to its advisers. The strength of the coalition is most important, even though billions of public funds have to be made available for four votes in Parliament. We are also accustomed to the fact that DeSUS is not satisfied with any of the protagonists of any pension reform, their changes, and finally with any solution that has been adopted for a long time. How long does he think he's going to have a good solution, which we're about to accept, we're going to see. The proposed changes in the coordination of pensions will bring a slight increase to those with low pensions. The effects of the new coordination will really only be felt by pensioners who now have high pensions. If we remember any more government forecasts and changes in other areas, it is clear whose interests will be represented by the current power as a right hand. For low-income pensioners, only an increased amount of the annual allowance and widow's pensions will have a positive effect. We welcome and support changes in these areas in the Social Democracy, even though they could be more resourceful and more just. Others, however, are concerned about the proposed law's set-up, including changes in the organisation and composition of the institutions. Instead of the assembly and the board of directors, PIZ was to be given a single body of the board of directors. Although the reorganization of the institutions has not been coordinated with the social partners, even more worrying is the proposed composition of the new board of institutions and clearly the government's desire to subordinate all decision-making levers in the country: from administration, economy, judiciary, television, to the pension and disability insurance institution. The Social Democrats' Group therefore proposes an amendment that aligns the composition of the board of the institution with the agreement on reform of pension and disability insurance in Slovenia, which provides unions and employers with 60% of the seats in the institutions of the institution. The ruling majority have already voted over a similar amendment on the parent's working body, and we hope that until today's hearing, she has thought about her work and realized that the agreements signed must be respected. Let me say that we Social Democrats believe that the pension reform which was implemented in 2000 is good; that it has taken account of the intergenerational agreement, that an agreement has been reached between the social partners. And at the end of the day, it gives visible results. Social Democrats are a party that has always advocated social security for citizens, greater social inclusion and equality and equal opportunities. Social Democrats are also a party that consistently respects the intergenerational agreement. Of course, we support increasing the social security of pensioners, of course we support that pensioners have a decent life, because they have earned it. But in any case, we are in favour that everyone who has contributed to the pension fund is also eligible from the cash register. That is why we will support the law in the Social Democrats' parliamentary group, but with clear warnings. We will by no means agree to make the income position of other groups worse at the expense of this law. We advocate that we all live better in our country, so it is not acceptable to increase the income of pensioners to reduce social rights or to reduce health resources. Nor will we agree to increase the burden on the economy, entrepreneurship or employees or workers. And finally. The government is spending this proposal without at the same time offering a single solution to how it will create more. The full responsibility for the consequences of the law, for public finances in the coming years, is therefore fully borne by the government and the government coalition. Any future references to a bad legacy will therefore be mere puffs of excuses. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Dear Members and Members! Allow me to extend a warm welcome to the Minister of Health of the Czech Republic, Madam Associate Professor Dr. Milado Emerovo with the delegation. Welcome to Slovenia, welcome to our National Assembly! [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] [[...]] Let me continue the debate. I'd like to take a word with you, Mr. Mag. Franca Capudra, who will present the position of New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Messengers and Members! The current mode of coordination of pensions is the result of changes to the 1999 law. Compared to the regulation introduced by the reform this year, the amended law is significantly worse for pensioners as the backlog of monthly wages has increased. All these solutions were accepted by the former ruling coalition without paying attention to pensioners, particularly those with the lowest pensions. In the Slovenian public, however, it became clear that pensioners cannot be the only social category that loses on the value of their earnings. This can be seen in the following data. The average age pension in 2000 was 76.1% of the average wage. By 2004, the average age pension had increased by 29% and the average wage by 39.6%. This means that the ratio between the average age pension and the average wage in 2004 was only 70.6%. In Novi Slovenije, we have also warned about such an unacceptable situation as the former opposition party. In our electoral programme for last year's parliamentary elections, we have explicitly stated that New Slovenia will support the solution because pensions will be coordinated according to the average wage movement found for a full-time employee. We advocated the view that the possibility of lower pension growth than wage growth should be eliminated, while the backlog in pension growth for the period since the previous reconciliation should be covered in the form of accounts for pensioners. And since the word applies in New Slovenia, we support the proposed amendment to the law on pension and disability insurance, which will ensure consistent coordination of pensions with wage growth. The average net salary of legal persons published by the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia is foreseen as the basis for the coordination of pensions. The bill provides for two reconciliations of pensions per year. This bill will gradually introduce the right to a widow's pension of at least 10% for all pensioners. In the amendment of the law, the property price is abolished to obtain the right to work on a widow's pension to an old or invalid pension, which goes to a widower or widower on the basis of his own insurance. This proposal for a new law fully regulates the range of beneficiaries, the dosage and coordination of the annual monetary allowance. According to the proposed law, it will be possible to gradually increase this monetary allowance until the higher amount of this supplement reaches 75% of the annual leave amount that goes to public sector employees in a given year. In 2005, the supplement is increased by around 8 thousand 300 tolars. According to the proposal of the law, he will have an institution, in accordance with the law on institutions, a single enforcement body, namely the Council of the Institution. The Board of the Institute will have 27 members, of which there will be only 10 representatives of the founder. Users, insured persons, pensioners, employers and a representative of employees in the institution will also be represented in the world of the institution. In Novi Slovenija we are aware of the fact that the pension system will need to be further adapted to the ageing population and that the pension levels should not fall in real terms. We must strive to increase the share of insurers throughout the population and to extend the active period of each individual's life. The poor ratio between the number of pensioners and insured persons will need to be increased by measures that will encourage the opening of new jobs where older and, of course, higher employment of the population can work. It is also necessary to regulate the rights of those pensioners, citizens of the Republic of Slovenia who have earned their pension in the republics of the former common country, and therefore the fact that the proposed amendment to the law will certainly not be the last. In New Slovenia, we will support the proposed amendment of the law and not the subsequent amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u19	Thank you very much. I once again invite Mr Brenčič to present this time the position of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u20	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. The proposal for amendments and the addition of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act certainly introduces a great deal of satisfaction to pensioners, in addition to the changes in the pension coordination system, directly by the growth of the average wage, yet new rights for the work of pensioners who have not been granted these rights. This is an annual allowance and recognition of the work of the widow's pension also for beneficiaries of relatively high pensions. So far, this right has been recognised by the law as an income weaker pensioner, for which we have been working constantly in the Slovenian People's Party, and this is because of the relationship to long-term stability of the system, not because of populist pre-election promises. The Slovenian People's Party's majority group will not oppose these changes, but we would like to draw attention to the consequences of this government's conduct in the long term to these issues. We are convinced that this approach is neither positive nor short-term, except for the long-term and financial stability and the ability of the pension and disability insurance system, and in this regard it is not positive for the macroeconomic and developmental orientation of the State budget. For the maintenance of existing rights, despite the positive effects of the pension reform, the State budget for 2005 in addition to its legal obligations allocates an additional 170 billion dollars to the Treasury of the SPIZ, which are collected from citizens' taxes. With all the additional resources required by this novelty, this amount will increase further, which means that there will be even less money for the development and creation of new jobs in the state budget, a strong shift from the Lisbon strategy. The direct coordination of pensions with an average salary, which is affected by the growth of a number of factors that do not have a very direct link with pension and disability insurance, has in practice the effect that salaries in many of the real-sector sectors are already lagging behind pensions under this heading, and these employees have the same objective: how to retire as soon as possible. Moreover, a rather strong indexation in the coordination of pensions will lead to an ever-increasing value gap between pensions in favour of high pensions. A widow's pension of 15% of the average pension is also granted to recipients of relatively high pensions. To recipients whose own pension is well above 300,000 SIT. All these additional resources must be provided by the State tax budget. The annual allowance, which replaces the current recreational allowance received by the lower income pensioners, will be newly received by all other pensioners, including those with the highest pensions, and will also have to provide additional financial inflows from taxes in the state budget. With all these measures, the Ministry of Labour is acting unfairly and unfairly towards some other citizens. For example, our citizens who receive pensions from the country of Croatia or other countries from the former republics of the SFRY, who were active and who are also now retired, our citizens and pay all the obligations to the country, are entitled to taxes and, in addition to receiving incomparably low pensions compared to our pensions, do not have the right not to a widow's pension and not to an annual allowance. Although these benefits are provided by the State budget, in which these citizens contribute their share. Regrettably, the Ministry of Labour has not shown any particular attention until this issue is resolved. The annual allowance will be given to all, including rich pensioners. However, for example, it is not time for a year’s vacation, despite the legal basis for many poorly paid workers in companies with a compulsory settlement programme, but only companies that are bankrupt. But all these workers pay taxes. Similarly, the poor 7,000 young workers who are employed through the public works programme do not receive the annual leave rescheduling, many of whom also have families and poorer bloody living conditions than the recipients of the highest pensions, which the state budget will provide them with additional funding for the annual allowance. With all due respect and understanding of the expectations of pensioners in the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group, it can be said that the approach set by this novel is a departure from the pension reform of the planned intergenerational solidarity and a poor traveller of the state's public financial capacity, which the pensioners will soon be disappointed to experience. In the Slovenian People's Party Parliamentary Group, we expect that the Ministry of Labour will not attempt additional financial burden and thus the Government of the Republic of Slovenia [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] the state budget brought by this novel is to be mitigated by unduly reducing certain social transfers that are intended for citizens and citizens who are already on the social floor. [[...]] However, the proposal for an amendment of the Liberal Democracy to the future is certainly valuable. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u21	Time's up.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u22	Consider as a good conceptual approach to the coordination of pensions. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u23	Thank you very much. I invite Ambassador Barbara Žgajner Tavš to present the position of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u24	Thank you so much for saying that. Well, today we have before us the amendment of the law on pension and disability insurance, a novel that has actually been introduced for the third time in this mandate. From this point of view, we also have doubts in the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group about the pure political intentions of the proposer. The novelty, after all, can also be a fear of a politicized deal with vague consequences. From the point of view of the implementation or guarantee of social rights, the proposal before us today is undoubtedly commendable and in some ways a bold move by the proposer. Why? This is a proposal which, with its consequences, undoubtedly has an irreparable impact on the public finances system of the Republic of Slovenia. That the area was not so easily manageable and therefore a highly comprehensive and complex approach was needed, she also pointed out in some way to the Commission for Budgetary Control and other public finances, which, as an interested working body of the National Assembly, adopted a decision calling on the applicant to obtain a comprehensive overview of the effects of this law on the pensionable cash register of the Republic of Slovenia before being examined on the home labour body. And the answer: The government had not been prepared or had all the data this year and therefore could not take into account all the changes envisaged. In the fall, the government is expected to prepare a new supplement, including new calculations. But today, in the opening presentation of the Minister, we have heard that the government already has calculations. I'm asking, why didn't she hand these calculations over to her mother's work? As has already been said, the parent working body of the draft decision did not take into account. We are therefore wondering whether the government has taken a holistic approach to these changes, whether it has taken a transparent approach to change, whether the government has taken a constructive approach to change in the spirit of dialogue among all the partners involved. I am convinced that the answer is negative, although we have heard it today, also in the Minister's opening remarks, otherwise. Let me briefly summarize the findings of the individual representatives of the parties involved. Employers are afraid of financial consequences that will burden the active population in particular. Nor has the Economic and Social Council taken a common position, for the Government has already adopted and sent the text of the bill to the legislative process, irrespective of the many important comments made by employers and trade unions. Unfortunately, the government did not take into account the views of the Institute for Disability and Pension Insurance of Slovenia, which was finally the last to be paid in the chain, so in our opinion these comments are of crucial importance. I therefore ask the Minister, and I hope that in the end I will get the answer: What are the social partners who have been so actively involved in the design of this pension reform? With this socially supported content, I would like to draw attention to another major drawback that has already been drawn from previous mandates, and today the new coalition has not fully eliminated it. It is the establishment of appropriate records of contributions paid and the dependence of the insurance period on those contributions. While I have already pointed to this issue of the competent minister with a question by the Member State at the end of May this year, in which I ask him how the state will deal with and, at the end of the year, assume responsibility for the illegal activities of employers without suffering the injured, i.e. those who have done what is fair and deserve peace. The fact is that the Pension and Disability Insurance Act provides that during the insurance period, the period of insurance shall be considered only on condition that contributions have been paid for that period. Notwithstanding the fact that this provision has only been complied with since 2000, it is totally unacceptable that the competent ministry proposes all the responsibility or responsibilities for paying contributions literally to an insurance undertaking which you do not want to be left behind by payments for which the record has not yet been established. Well, we've heard that this law is also supposed to establish records. But I am asking myself this or I am asking an important question, because Durs has the power to do so, but the law gives Durs time until 2010 to establish these records. We are therefore without records, although this law is supposed to be established until 2010. Well, I'm going to finish because, in fact, time is chasing me, just one more sentence for the end. In view of the way and, on the one hand, we also fear that the transition will not be so easy to present the contents of today's novel in the Slovenian National Party Group. While we will not object to faster coordination of pensions with wage growth, we hope that the government is aware of the difficulties of the area and, in particular, is aware of any consequences that might be affected by the miscalculations of our country's public finances. Thank you very much and thank the president for letting me out of time.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u25	Thank you very much. There were actually two sentences, one very long. I'd like to take a word with you, Mr. Mag. Franca Žnidaršič to present the position of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u26	Honourable President, Honourable Minister, Honourable Colleagues and Fellows! The parliamentary group will support the law for the following reasons. The law introduced by the RS Government in the legislative procedure fully summarises the most important amendments and additions offered in the law previously tabled by DeSUS. It is a correction of articles relating to the coordination of pensions with salary growth, annual allowance and the right to work on the deceased spouse's pension. Since the government has made some other but less important changes in this regard, the law on our part was previously withdrawn after agreement in the coalition due to rationality. Contrary to some, the law does not offer a consistent alignment of pensions with wage increases, but pensions will fall significantly slower than they did with the change in coordination in autumn 2000. In doing so, it is important to stress that it is not a matter of modifying or modifying the solutions to the pension reform adopted in December 1999, which arose after lengthy preparation, a broad public debate and in agreement with the affected pensioners, who also cancelled constitutional rights on the basis of the DeSUS initiative and later on in order to help workers in solidarity ensure the long-term sustainability of the pension system. The change in the alignment of pensions with salaries in 2000 was literally legal in the place of rights, as it was created in the circle of a narrow group of people of the then government coalition in silence, without the consent of the affected, and unfortunately also with the help of our Members who believed that no one understood the new formula for coordination a good solution. The Union of Pensioners of Slovenia has not strongly opposed this change, which has contributed approximately 1.5% of the pension to pensioners each year, totalling over 100 billion at this time, and which will make the pensions of current pensioners about 8% lower until their death. Since the pension is not a social right, but a pension made from past work and contributions paid, it is irrevocable from the perspective of the individual beneficiary, irrespective of what it means for the treasury, where more and more beneficiaries hang or must guarantee more and more rights, including those that do not belong to it. For example, a state pension, an exceptional pension, a social security allowance, a martial law allowance, an allowance for assistance and a service and could still be listed. It is also irrelevant to say that all debtors do not pay contributions to this cash register, which, of course, adds to the budget and helps to create an unwarranted atmosphere, that pensioners are too expensive and that others will decide on their rights afterwards. The rapid increase in the number of pensioners on the one hand and the decrease in the number of employees on the other hand have indeed caused problems, but they cannot and should not only be solved by reducing the rights of pensioners indefinitely, unrelentingly and absurdly. There are also other solutions, such as: consistent recovery of contributions, nettling of pension cash costs that do not belong to it, employment, good management of Kad's assets, and it has been shown that some young economists have not yet been creative, who, without need and more or less, have been panicking over the cessation of the fall in pensions and thus start solidarity as the essential and indispensable foundation of the existing pension system and the intergenerational agreement. The occasional increase in the rate of contribution also creates unnecessary upheaval in terms of reducing the competitiveness of the economy, which did not generally translate savings when the rate of contribution was reduced into investment and production in previous wages and would result in increased employers' profits in today's system. We stand in the position that from the point of view of the State, it is still better to co-finance the first pension pillar, which does not require the loss of money at the expense of the management of these funds, with a significantly lower risk of the collapse of the pension fund, which is what scares some people every day, rather than offering solutions to the opposite adjustment to the new situation. No research that sows discouragement can predict what will happen in 25 years or more, for no one knows. Building conclusions on today’s hard-to-be foundations, however, is irresponsible of purpose, easy to reduce legal rights instead of ensuring them. Of course, the proposed law also gives the right to work on the pension of a deceased spouse, which is a European comparable solution, only that this one is adapted to the modester conditions we face. The law also preserves the difference in the amount of the allowance in favour of those with lower pensioners and, of course, does not cause as much financial consequences as some say. Other amendments to the law in this case are less important, necessary and affect the rights of pensioners and are therefore variable for us. These are the reasons why our party will not, in the interest of the pensioners, support the proposed amendments and amendments to the law, despite the fact that the pensioners, who will benefit most from this, will not find the right words of support for our party, which will in the future defend and protect the rights and interests not only for them but also for all citizens in the field of health, social rights and other rights. In this respect, DeSUS would easily become a trademark of current and future pensioners and their permanent guarantee of the rights they enjoy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Once again, I ask Members, Members of the Government, to try to stick to these timeframes set by the Rules of Procedure and the College. As a last resort, she will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mrs Alenka Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u28	Thank you for your word. Respectable. The Pension and Disability Insurance Act was adopted at the end of 1999 as a result of discussions and coordination with the social partners and other groups of the population, in particular pensioners. The agreement reached, which required years of talks, promised a fair alignment of pensions with wage increases and ensured that pensioners, like workers, would be paid into the pension system, would draw from it and thus ensure a decent survival of age. The law was the legal basis for the reform of pension and disability insurance in the sense of a gradual transition to a more sustainable system of compulsory insurance under an intergenerational contract. Two months after the elections, the position of December 2000 with amendments to the law reached out to the rights already acquired, violated the agreement and, without the consent of the affected groups of pensioners and the Economic Social Council, adopted amendments that led to an increase in the backlog of monthly wages or that pensioners were deprived of at least one pension per year. Pensions do not rise in the same way as wages and will always be lagging behind them, it is only a percentage of the increase, which ultimately represents a greater or lesser difference. We must come from the fact that the pension is not a social right or aid and that pensioners earned it at the time of their employment in the pension fund for a decent survival of their age. Last fall in the LDS pre-election leaflet, we were able to read: "The fundamental value of our society must remain solidarity. Only a society that doesn't push anyone away and leave behind those who have contributed to its prosperity can go forward." And in Slovenia we have tried to have a better standard of living, a higher level of health care and a fair social policy. But the targets are even higher. We want to reduce unemployment by 5% and we want to make it possible for more than 150 000 pensioners with lower pensions with an additional pension to enable a safer age. What makes you think there's no money? Apparently, they were scheduled before the elections. In the light of the mistakes made by the previous government in implementing the pension and disability insurance system, the government has prepared changes and supplements in accordance with its programme and coalition contract, ensuring consistent coordination of pensions with wage growth, gradually introducing a pension entitlement of at least 10% for all pensioners, fully regulating the benefit-winning cycle and the coordination of the annual allowance, the pension system is adapted to the older population, with pension levels not falling seriously. The Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance will have a single management body, the Council of the Institute, in accordance with the Law on Institutions. We must strive to increase the share of insurers throughout the population and to extend the active period of each individual's life. The poor ratio between the number of pensioners and insured persons will need to be increased by measures that will encourage the opening of new jobs where older people can work and, of course, greater employment of the population. The amendments and additions to the law on pension and disability insurance correct the wrong done to the pensioners, which we warned the Slovenian Democratic Party at the time of the adoption of the regulation in 2000. Therefore, the amendments to the law tabled by the Government support and vote in favour of the proposed law in the joint SDS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u29	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Yes, Master Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u30	The President [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u31	I suppose that's procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u32	Procedurally. [[...]] Procedural. If you can. [[...]] [[A voice in the background.]] Procedurally, I'm not politicizing. [[...]] Procedural proposal. Mr President, my procedural proposal is as follows. Mr Minister initially said that, on the basis of some of the conclusions of the working bodies, the government had also prepared a so-called analysis of the impact of the pension law on the long-term sustainability of the pension allowance and, of course, public finances in full. We have also heard different opinions and concerns about this in the debate of individual parliamentary groups. I would like to propose, in a procedural manner, that the debate be suspended in accordance with the third paragraph of Article 73, third paragraph. The Government should present this, on which it should define the parent working body or working body and then continue the discussion. That's one suggestion. The alternative proposal is that, before the debate began, the Minister could not present this report now and here because of the time limit. Because it is very difficult to discuss something that is a key issue of this law if the government does not present what it has said to the public. I think that this public is, above all, a national assembly, and we will decide here and that, given the type of comments and the type of concerns expressed, it would be right for the government to present this to us. I believe that, of course, you will not want to interrupt the meeting, so I suggest that at least the government now, before discussing individual Members and Members of Parliament on the amendments, present an analysis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u33	Thank you very much, Mr. Squeakle. According to Mr. Sok, it's also procedural. [[...]] Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u34	I suggest that you do not allow such debates, please. If there is no procedural proposal, please stop the debate. It wasn't a procedural proposal. This extends to a matter that is not the subject of today’s debate! We're discussing the law today.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u35	There's no procedural replica. I am inclined to say that, given that the government has another 10 minutes and that, during the debate, the Minister may at any time also speak to him, that I am now giving him the floor to perhaps explain the report in a few minutes. Mr. Secretary, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u36	Thank you so much for saying that. At the outset, I can immediately say that the draft text clearly presents the financial implications. In accordance with the law or the Rules of Procedure, the financial consequences of changes to the law are prepared and are also prepared in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. As for the answers themselves to what the Members have put up, I would like to briefly present these answers on the questions in the presentations themselves. Why the ZPIZ Assembly is being abolished and is the world of the institution - in accordance with the law on institutions, we have made a change. This means, instead of two bodies, one body and thus a more rational business and more systematic operation. At the same time, we have also provided the social partners with an appropriate share in the institution's world. As far as the financial implications are concerned, here's what's going on. In the light of previous changes in 2000, 2001, 2002 and 2003, the social partners did not address these changes, although it was extremely detrimental to the pensioners. This time, we have included the social partners in the hearing. In short, according to the principles of good social partnership, the government has acted and attracted all those who have anything to say. And I can say that they agree with the change in coordination, but they did not fully agree with the establishment of the institution's world. With regard to border cases or these presentations of the annual supplement, the government is actually just valorising the height, increasing or different mode of coordination; otherwise, it does not advocate a proposal that was also presented in the amendment, as it would result in seven classes, seven possible those at the border and those who are dissatisfied. At the same time, I can stress that this means a less favourable solution for those with poorer pensions. This should certainly be highlighted. With regard to the proposal to coordinate pensions, those higher than those of smaller pensions, i.e. lower benefits, would in the long run mean that everyone would receive the same pension, which is unacceptable from the point of view of the insurance system. However, taking further into account the method of valorisation, as adopted in previous amendments, into the long term, for example, 25 or 30 years, would mean poverty for all pensioners. 35 to 40% would be a pension - 35% of the salary. That's unacceptable. That's what we've already warned you about. With regard to the issue of providing contributions, what was involved, what was mentioned by the representative or a member of the National Party regarding the monitoring of the payment of contributions, we have introduced this amendment. The former government has not found this and the government coalition, so we have a new Article 228 or Article 17 Amendments Act, which improves the text. At the same time, we have repeatedly said that this year we will draw up a law on labour records, where we will also complement this information base and ensure that pensioners have a thorough review, not pensioners, insurers, a thorough review of their contributions. Thus, the key answers, I think I have given, or we will be presented as representatives of the government in the course of the consideration of individual amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Allow me a brief interpretation of the use of the Rules of Procedure and procedural question. I think that I did the right thing, because Mr Squeakl, on the basis of Article 69, wanted to talk about the use of the Rules of Procedure, suggested that paragraph 73 of the Rules of Procedure should be applied. I have decided not to interrupt the meeting, but to follow his other proposal and to give the Minister my word. I hope that's what this is all about. That is why we are going to discuss the articles and the amendments tabled, which we will be leading on the basis of the review of the amendments of 12 July 2005. We are starting the debate on Article 11. I am putting this article and the amendment of the LDS Group to the debate. Who wants a word? Mr. Gantar, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I will certainly support this amendment to Article 11. I must say that in the Group of Members, as well as in the broader debate on possible proposals, we have indeed taken the government into account and shaken, and we have found that such a way of coordinating pensions as the Government proposes in the medium term is not sustainable, that of course the pensioners and pensioners now have something to do today, tomorrow, if you want him to take it away from the day after tomorrow. Although I think that this proposal has a law - let me say a few words about this article - that it has long-term implications for the economic and social development of Slovenia and, after all, for social cohesion in Slovenia. The debate on this is not, in fact, primarily limited to financial and other consequences, but only partly, the debate is also clearly political and ideological. I was very concerned when Minister Dr Petnik said in the first sentence today - namely, that the government is proposing this law in particular to stop the downward trend of pensions - I will not use the word lie in this Chamber. Of course, pensions don't go down, pensions grow according to the cost of living, of course they don't grow as fast as wages do. And that's what Mr. Secretary always forgets to say. And always forget, it creates the impression that there is so-called absolute and relative, as you would say, deprivation of pensions and pensioners in Slovenia. Of course it's not true! And that is what we must oppose, such interpretation. Therefore, a law based on a marriage could not be a good marriage on the basis of an untruth that is a fundamental untruth. The issue of the sustainability of the pension system, which our amendment to Article 11, also raises, is one of the fundamental issues and judicial issues of all so-called mature societies. It is a matter of social consensus and it is a question of intergenerational solidarity and justice. As has already been pointed out today, this system has been achieved and this consensus has been reached. It was achieved in a way that limited each shareholder slightly in its expectations and interests. Pensioners were limited in wage and pension indexing according to salaries, workers were limited by the gradual extension of working hours, the government guaranteed that the system would maintain permanent and stable and that it would not contribute more to burdening the costs or living costs of pensioners, pensioners, workers, workers and so on with other resources. And this was an example of a good compromise that was achieved. Every compromise, every agreement needs monitoring, needs monitoring. And if in this monitoring it turns out that something is wrong, that maybe some percentage does not go as it should go, then it is possible to fix it, but not in the way it is now, which in fact increases the gap between income in the pension register and expenditure in the long and medium term. No matter what you claim to be so, all the studies show it, I believe, even the one that the minister doesn't want to show us. And the fact is, in this way, everyone will lose the next generation. Even pensioners and pensioners who will be given something today. One way you're giving them something back now, as you say, but I'm telling you, you can take it back in a thousand ways. The Health Insurance Act, the Social Affairs Act, the Drugs, the Third, the Fourth - can turn everything around, these good intentions bring you to hell. Therefore, this agreement must not be breached unilaterally. If it needs to be reformed, it needs to be reformulated in agreement and it takes longer than you have done. However, I would draw attention to the article published in Del, signed by the three economists, published on 9 April, which means, of course, that they point out that such consistent coordination of pensions with wage growth cannot be interpreted as fair in the fact that the relationship between pensioners and employees is growing. It means that pensioners will have an increasing share of gross domestic product. I think that this trend, as indicated in this article, will of course be reversed, will be counter-measures to prevent this. Right in the areas I mentioned. And actually the calculations show that, of course, this system is not sustainable, and yes, once again, I warn you: what you give today will have to take in one way or another tomorrow. I am very pleased that more and more MEPs and Members - the MP has turned to me - cites the LDS position. We saw this last time on the board, today we saw again how the LDS position is quoted. I think the longer you're in power, the more they'll quote us. And you will not miss this, because the things we have said apply not only to us or to our followers, but also to someone else. Therefore, the proposal that we have drawn up, which allows for the increase of pensions in relation to the social situation of pensioners to be substantially more sustainable, does not increase this gap, at the same time stems from the principle of social justice, that when society develops, we must primarily look at the situation of those with the worst situation in society, whether workers or pensioners with the lowest wages, and that this is the criterion of fairness. Not so much as how good it comes through the one who has the most in society, but how good it comes through the one who has the least in society, and this is the principle that we have followed in this amendment. I therefore suggest that you accept this amendment so that you do not begin the sustainability of this system, which has been composed, and do not accumulate problems for yourself and the whole society that could be avoided. I would also like to say that in informal discussions, including with representatives of the ruling majority, we hear opinions that when we were forced to do so, this is the price of DeSUS entering the coalition and similar things. This is where I think DeSUS needs to be protected from such views. That's just not true. These are the original promises made by NSI and SDS, which are also specific original promises in this form of this law, not by DeSUS. So it's an attempt to actually frame DeSUS for all of this, I think it's also kind of unfair to DeSUS and even to the pensioners. We pay the price for the pre-election promises of two parties, and we'll all pay that price tomorrow. And I hope that there will be elections in this country where it will be possible to show who has done something for this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u39	Thank you very much. My word to Mr. Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Let me first say that we are grateful for this protective role in DeSUS, but even though we are very few in number, we will try to think for ourselves about what to support and what not. All of these laws and changes are likely to be less than happy, and today there have been some such words that have been used to persuade people to say that they have gained too little. It was quite explicitly said that someone else was promising more. Is it right that he promises this one, that's another question? According to my judgment, he does not have the appropriate ligitivity to do so because he changed his views several times in a year or six months. Today, 150 thousand promised additional pensions have already been quoted. I could quote a whole series of "svetober" titles that the same proponents have contributed to our media, how pensioners are actually evil, how they are those who cook intergenerational war, how they are those who are unduly privileged, etc. And now there's a surprise in the form of this amendment that promises more and says, you've got too little. Even if that were true, it would be a questionable ligitimate, in my judgment at least, of a proposaler. We will support this law with a peaceful conscience, yet it corrects something for the multitudes of pensioners. We will not support this amendment, it has at least two flaws. The first flaw is that once again it mixes the pension system with social adjustments, this should be done elsewhere in the social field. The second is that, of course, this is not the most consistent with what the applicants often mention, namely with actuarial justice, and this is also one of the reasons why we will not support it. We will be happy to support the novel because we know that the current generation of pensioners has already contributed significantly to pension reform in a way that has increased the number of years taken into account in order to extend the working time before entry, in a way that has worsened the relationship and more. Nevertheless, it is we who believe that it is necessary to warn that this process is not over by adopting this novel. We know that there will continue to be a major problem of negative demographic trends, we know that there will continue to be a major problem with the inadequate relationship between active and retired people. We know that the question of the current fairness of those pensioners who have already been mentioned and who do not come from the evidence system needs to be re-established. We also know that today something is further studied and later enters the active age and that this must also have some consequences with regard to a comparable period from 10, 20 or even more years ago. So, even though we know that we have not discovered the last, only and final truth, we will support this and point out that now that the law is passed, we need to focus on something else: increasing actar justice and making our economy more efficient and successful so that we can actually implement this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u41	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Yelen's turn.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u42	Thank you for your word. Mr Vice-President, Members and Members of Parliament, Mr Minister. Of course, we have to ask ourselves first, who are these people to whom the amendment relates, whether they have done something in their lives for the Republic of Slovenia, if we have the answers to these questions, we can see that these people today are mainly older generations, mostly people who have proved by their work that we must properly evaluate them today, respect them, and evaluate them so as not to cause them a fraction of the blame for all the work they did when they were building when they invested in defending our territory. In order to regularly transfer their completed pension periods to the pension register, they should not be included in those who are in need of social assistance in the Republic of Slovenia. This should not be done because such acts and contrary to the will of the older generation would be accepted by amendments that would cause injustices for the former and current generations of pensioners for the future, and we will all vote against them sooner than on this train, which, with unknown questions, leads through the path of life, so we must reject such amendments. If we value the work properly for 35 or 40 years of each individual and want to respect him during his retirement, then we must help them properly to reward them. If this relationship is today aimed at the right path, then it is imperative to reject such amendments, which bring worse positions for pensioners to the past work account. For this reason, I also consider that the annual allowance is not a social category and I do not agree to the complete fragmentation of the annual allowance proposed in the amendment of the Liberal Democracy Club. The annual allowance of pensioners must also be linked to paid contributions. Which means that seven categories of proposed classifications of annual allowance coordination mean that the pensioners have been classified in the social categories of annual allowance benefits. I only agree to two rankings, as agreed before, on higher and lower levels, as did the recipients of this annual supplement. I will vote against the adoption of such an amendment and support the adoption of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on pension and disability insurance, prepared by the Government, which ensures that pensioners are consistently coordinated with the growth of salaries, that the right to a widow's pension be exercised more appropriately, that there is a gradual increase in the special allowance, before the retirement allowance, and thus that the pension system is approved to the ageing population, and that the amount of pensions should not fall in reality, as stated in the Coalition Treaty, which includes our pensioners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u44	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear President! So, I would like to say for myself that I think some of them are most disturbed by the fact that some policies in this country have become credible. And that is, it is said that if a ruling coalition of some party has announced something before the elections, then, of course, it is also necessary to make this happen after the elections. Of course, something is not coming to mind. This marriage has all the elements of the law that it must have. That is why I have previously opposed this proposal put forward by my fellow Member, Mr Squeakl. Because if I didn't have them, we wouldn't be able to deal with them in Parliament. The financial consequences of this law are, of course, stated in the explanatory memorandum. It was said that in the past all categories of people in something were limited and that pensioners had limited themselves to agreeing to lower pensions. That's not true. Politics has limited them. But today we have to ask ourselves where this limit can go. Either we stay with this model as we have today, and if we stay at it, then what the minister said will happen, in 10, 20 years, that the average pension will actually be only 35 or 40%, or today we will find that this 6 or more percent is actually enough and this law needs to be corrected properly. Then it was also said that on the one hand to increase the pension, and then through different systems on the other hand, I don't know, to take through health reform and just like other admissions. That's not true. Once again, if a policy is serious and credible, of course, it will lead to a system so coordinated that it will not happen. And I'm sure this ruling coalition doesn't have this desire. As far as the amendment proposed by the Liberal Democracy is concerned, of course the amendment seems to be attractive, it can also be interpreted in this way in public, but of course the question is whether you really wanted it, why, when you had all the power in this country for 12 years, you have not already done so. And one more thing, you ask the Minister to further explain the financial consequences of the law, even though it is written down, and we all know that this law will mean about 6 billion more in this year's budget and 14 billion in the second year, and some of you are also having problems if it means breaking the financial register to mean this, I don't know what for young generations. Only the ownership of the Triglav insurance company, of course under some other calculations, could mean that the state acquires for many years what some today, including young economists; I say young economists, deliberately use this word, are so very problematic. And what's more, I'm most surprised that this is actually a problem for the unions. What are trade unions doing in this country? To trouble you by correcting some unsustainable situation for 500 000 pensioners, or by protecting workers, or by actually maintaining these structures themselves. I think it's often shown that it's actually the last one. In fact, pensions have been reduced during this period. Each pensioner could calculate that in these two and a half years he lost about two and a half pensions and - because it was said earlier that we like to quote you very much, so it is very good that we have these computer mechanisms that record everything. Four years ago, you were just before Christmas in 2000, and I will quote here, Mrs Zalokar Orazem, on behalf of the LDS: "We will support this proposal in our Member's joint opinion, because we estimate that it is in some sense a saving, necessary one. In doing so, we were guided by the basic principle that maintaining the relative movement of pensions and salaries is essential..." and you have therefore explained how this coordination will now work well. Then Mr Kebrič: "We have maintained all the other principles, so to speak, of an intergenerational agreement, including the fact that nominee pensions cannot be reduced, we have installed a fuse, just in case, to ensure that this is evenly coordinated with wages." The then Minister, Mr Dimovski, said: "We support this proposal therefore, for the first time, because it allows for a coordinated movement of wages and pensions" - which has proved to be a big lie, as a lie. Then he says, "Secondly, because the seasonal or cyclical influence that was present in the previous decree of this law is eliminated; thirdly, because there is also a guardian in the proposal to amend Article 150, which allows for a greater degree of coordination between pensions and salaries." If that is true, then my fellow Members, explain why these differences are. And also Mr Potrč, who took place instead of the then proposalr, said that there was, otherwise only one part I took from the magnetogram: "First, to maintain the principle of the relationship of pensions with the movement of wages, and secondly, to preserve the realization of this principle to the greatest extent possible in order to adapt and harmonise pensions with the country's salaries." So if we didn't write it down in our services at the time, of course we wouldn't be able to tell you today. But since they're written down, you can also check what you said. Like us for four years, we will be able to verify whether these are our views today, right or wrong. We are convinced that and that in some way we will restore a certain part of dignity to our pensioners, whom you wanted to take from them through this system, and it is obvious that you will use pensioners only when you have to go to the elections, when it is necessary to vote, when the structure is composed, but forget your electorate and even more about the promises. That's a fact, and that's why I stopped by, and that's what I could point out. We will not support the amendment of the Liberal Democracy, because it means exactly what the Minister said: it means, in some way, indexation, meaning, in some way, equivalence and that is contrary to these principles. However, we will support a law that corrects in fact what you passed in December 2000 by voting in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u45	Thank you very much. I invite Mr. Brenčič to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u46	Thank you so much for saying that. To begin with, all coalitions so far have acted responsibly on the issue of the sustainability of the pension system in relation to the capacity of the State. The key to that drastic intervention by the DEMOS government is that the first measure was then a new one by the Drnovskov government and that it probably should not have done one thing. This is my only responsibility, perhaps a slightly less responsible approach than all coalitions so far on the issue of the sustainability of the pension system with the entire demographic picture present. And I have no bad conscience nor the feeling that, as of the previous nine years, I have worked as an intern in poor pensioners. In fact, through the pension reform, with the responsible attitude that we need some relationship in this country between generations that will be sustainable, accountable, we have also engaged in the coordination of pensions. That is why I do not accept that the previous coalition has worked poorly in this area. She was very responsible. As regards this amendment, however, given the conceptuality of the existing law on pension and disability insurance and, consequently, this novelty, the approach that is not in this concept and is very difficult to incorporate. After all, the contents of this amendment should enter into Article 7 and not just Article 11. And with the causal purpose of this amendment, we also amend Article 8 as well, including the coordination of pensions. From the point of view of the Impairment of Indexation, which is present in the coordination of pensions, the substantive approach that the Liberal Democracy Club wants to submit with this law is somewhat close, with such a proposal always having to be categorised in a stimulating way and measured in practice. However, I would like to say that the indexation of the coordination of pensions with a percentage means that the gap between small pensions and high pensions is increasing, and in this sense I say that this is unsocial. While we separate the pension system from all the obligations that the state budget has under the law, including the state pension and the martial arts allowance, from taxes at the annual level of 2.5 still 170 billion Slovenian tolls, in order to preserve existing rights and to introduce new ones as introduced by this novel, the issue of pension payments is still a social category. As a result, it is incorrect that, according to a hard indexation, when we coordinate the pension for 1%, the recipient receiving the pension, say, 100,000, receives it less, receives 1% thousand Slovenian tolars, and the recipient receives 400,000 tolars. And this gap is increasing with each coordination. As a result, when we look at the value of a pension, we need to coordinate pensions in some way by maintaining the sustainability of these small pensions. Cost us a pound of sugar for the $80,000 pension. As long as the state tax budget provides for practically such a share of public money in the sustainability of the pension fund in terms of existing rights and emerging new ones, we are obliged to do so. In this sense, I understand this approach as some kind of search for solutions that are, after all, more consistent with the Lisbon strategy we are entering. It is true, however, that, given the concept of this novel law and the basic law on pension and disability insurance, we are virtually unable to do so. After that, if we accept this with a multi-conformity amendment, we can systematically resolve it, but I think it's practically impossible. However, I think it is good to think about these approaches, these issues, which relate to the indexation of coordination or the indexation of pensions, in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u47	Thank you very much. I would like to take the floor with you, Master Žnidaršič.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u48	Thank you very much. So with regard to this amendment, I must say that, beyond what has already been said, he will not experience my support for two reasons in particular. First time. It does not contribute to the long-term stability of the pension system, which is discussed so much by the proposer. Another time. The calculation of 7 rates would be very complicated and not cheap, so it will be nothing; and, last but not least, it must be repeated to speak again about social issues when it comes to the heights of any rights under this law, not about the right to pay contributions. It is also not entirely true from this address what Mr Brenčič said that the indexation results in an increase in the difference between the lowest and the highest pension, because it is stable 1:4 and nothing more. While those with the highest pensions, those who enter today with the highest are already about 65,000 dollars worse than they would have been if the 1995 reform had not taken place. This means that a large part of their rights have been placed on the table to cover the long-term stability of the pension system, although in the mass of funds it represents so little money that pensioners would receive 100 and a few tolars higher pensions if they were abolished, not only reduce them to a lower level. As far as the long-term stability of the pension system is concerned, this would only work if savings went to a special fund for long-term stability or to reserves to cover later payments, i.e. the need to pay pensions. Which doesn't happen. All savings have so far been burned in an integrated budget, which has been lower. And they didn't go anywhere. And because of this, any savings for the affected are, in the sense that this would mean long-term stability, actually made up. It is not from this title of long-term stability. There's so much relief in the budget. Of course, the cost of this change of law is not nearly enough today, for example, to achieve only unpaid contributions, which have already reached about 30 billion in this year. For the current year. Unpaid contributions exceed this year and others, and little more than this year's and the second-year financial consequences of this legal change. And if we're still talking about the long-term stability of pension systems in the world, it has to be said that they're dealing everywhere with the same problem, but not by just saying because they're running out, but the pensioners won't get it. America has this instant $450 billion in pension deficit, and it does not hope to lower its pension. He does not hope to reduce his pension to the death of a convicted or imprisoned person in a life sentence for a single cent because the pension is an insurance right. Which is something other than social. And that's what you have to say. In my presentation, I pointed out that from the point of view of the individual insured, the pensioner, no matter what happens in the pension box. He must receive what he was told when he paid his contributions. And no less. If he gets less, he's taken. It is possible to waive the work of its rights, and this was done in 1999, with great agreement after a broad and multi-annual public debate, after, of course, a lot of money was taken without consensus in 2000. And that's the only part we fix. In doing so, we continue to agree that a further pension reform is under way, in which there will certainly be a need for further corrections in the coming years or even earlier, because we are aware that it is necessary to ensure the payment of pensions and to seek solutions, which, of course, may be very different from employment, to ensure that at least the social outturn is cleared up so that this number of budgetary burdens, which today reaches a considerable sum, is indeed setting a visa for those rights which are in here directly reflected in the contributions paid. And as far as the highest pensions are concerned, I must say that we have never opened privileges and that we could discuss whether or not they are what they are, only those who have not paid for them. This is a search for extraordinary pensions, which our party has also discussed in previous mandates, where one would wonder how much and why so much. While remaining the highest pensions are paid by contributions that are more than ten times higher than those that have 100 euros in pension and that are generally enjoyed by users for a much shorter period of time. I can tell you by 5,500 doctors in Slovenia that according to the data available, they experience at least five years lower average age than other citizens, even though they have to work at least 65 years for their full pension, men, and thus 60 years of women, and that on average they get less than one who has 100 thousand pensions from their pension. Thus, the debate on these differences of large and rich and poor pensioners is entirely, I would say, demagogous. And that. 70% of our pensioners don't have a full-time job. Why? Not just because some people don't want to work and run into retirement. The transition brought us 200,000 unexpected new pensioners, who, of course, began to pump instead of giving. And that's what caused the cash crisis. But now it is achieved in our belief that some peak of this sudden retirement and in this sense the thing has stabilized. That's not entirely true. On the other hand, these pensioners, who do not have a full-time job, worked in much harder working conditions, in much harder, with much less quality work, where there was a lot of damage at work, because there was also legislation at the time and, of course, the technology of heavy industry, ironworks and so on, that there were many injuries, many early and disabled retirements. And of course, from this title there are low pensions; not because the differences would be the basis for the privileges, but because the disabled and the elderly were able to go to retirement at the age of 20 and 30, men. They're just for less years, for less contributions, even lower pensions. So it is not entirely true that this system is flawed, but the insurance system is fair in this sense and, again, from the point of view of the individual pensioner, it does not matter where the money comes from. He worked, he paid, he worked 40 years, and he's got to win. If he doesn't get something, he was taken, stolen, unless, of course, he gives himself up. In this sense, I think it is right to say again and again that we are and will be advocates of the rights of pensioners who, with their past work, have expected some pensions, of which today again would like to be baranted by someone else who has not done anything yet for example - some young economists or their education at state costs have not yet paid, but today they understand solidarity between generations so that someone in Del has published information that he is not voluntarily insured because he is healthy and young and does not need it and that the higher premiums are paid by those who are sick and old who need a doctor every day. Without thinking that he can already today, tomorrow's disaster, he will need much earlier than any other older healthcare rights, but he does not understand solidarity and does not pay those 4,900 voluntary insurance premiums, and thus, of course, insolvently weakens the situation of solidarity in this insurance. And if this were to spread across the board, it would mean nothing more than an interruption of solidarity on the ground, a complete dispersion of the intergenerational agreement, which is really nowhere like the one written down by the treaty, but nevertheless shows something that is happening among some young people who have lived too well to understand what it is for the elderly who today want to recognize some of their rights means. They studied at State expense, lived in relative prosperity, did nothing yet for this country, paid nothing yet in this cash register, and without the pensioners they would like to decide how many pensioners should get, who have done everything and paid everything and are guilty today because the economy will die because of these few billion that do not mean anything in the whole budget. And if any government coalition thinks that such a change should constitute a stalemate of the economy as a whole or an inability to introduce the euro or something like that, such a government coalition has no right to lead that country and does not need to lead it; because that is not true and any government coalition should be able to cover this cost, if not otherwise, by consistently recovering contributions and in such ways as to know who is drinking and who is paying. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr Brenčič has applied for the replica. In doing so, let me just point out once again in Rule 70 of the Rules of Procedure, which states that a replica is only possible when the debate of the applicant has been misinterpreted or misinterpreted. Of course, it is not a condition for those mentioned. Mr. Brenčič, is this condition met?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u50	Thank you very much, even for the introduction. Let me add or explain what Mr Žnidaršič said. It is true that the highest pensions are limited and that the institution itself ensures that the indexation is not taken into account from there, but that the indexation is taken into account immediately below this summit. And a solid indexation means that there are increasing numbers of pension recipients at the limit. It stops there and it still gets a percentage below the limit. Therefore, the Fund for the Solid Indexation of Pensioners, who are below the top or who reach the ceiling of a four-time pensioner for 40 years with the lowest base, is increasing. And the burden of the state budget or pension fund is increasing. However, the relationship remains as I said, increasingly to the detriment of small pensions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u51	Thank you very much. So far we have three, four debaters and we are still talking about Article 11. It's Mr. Veršnik's turn.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u52	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Mr. Secretary, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I will not, in fact, support this amendment for the two reasons we have just heard from Minister and Mr Znidaršič. I think they have fully justified the reasons why this amendment cannot be supported. When I listen to today's debate, a lot of colleagues are criticising the law and finally adding, we will support the law. I guess we all know why. I am convinced of the necessity of adopting the proposed law in order to prevent further deterioration of the social situation of pensioners and the backlog of pension growth for wage growth. I think we're under-emphasizing the other side. This means that, under the current law, the dosing scale is reduced by half a percentage point each year. Each year, the rate of valorisation of pensions is reduced by 0.6 percentage points. If all of this were to last for another 20 years, this would reduce pension levels by 12% of the current 70, which is the average age pension, below 60% of the average wage. Then, dear fellows, imagine living with such a pension after retirement. Pensions now account for 77% of the average wage. This reduction for the 23% points is hidden from the public and is not sufficiently presented; I hope to say so. This decreases from year to year. Now it's 77, last year it was 78 - what's the second year, probably 76, and so down. If any of us here thinks that an unaltered marriage would be the first pension to be received after retirement, 70 or 80 percent of the wages he received last, he makes a strong mistake. It'd be 60%. That means 60% of his salary if he's on average. In the case of high wages, this ratio is much smaller. It is not taken into account that in the current system we have around 10% of all pension insurance expenditure at the expense of the various privileges that will die naturally, even if we do not change the law in the coming years. These are all privileges from II. World War II. That, believe it or not, is 80 billion. There are fewer widow's pensions because now most women's populations are also employed, and when they go to retirement, they have their pensions, and then they just choose between their own or their pensioner if they're married. I note that in disability insurance, too, terrible reductions have been made with this system, and personally I think they have been exaggerated. With the reform in 1999, people with disabilities are even more reduced than old pensioners. A typical man doesn't go to a retirement age, he goes to a disability. More men retire from disability than older men. If the age limit for women were to rise, women would also become more disabled because, at the same age as women, men with disabilities were to retire. I agree with the conclusion that the law will change. Probably in terms of longer working hours, which according to the findings that age increases, is perfectly normal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u53	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Horvath to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u54	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Members, honourable Members, Mr Minister and fellow Members! The contents of the amendment to article 11 of the proposed law tabled by the Group of Members of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia did not impress me, so I will not vote in favour of this amendment. We insist on the solution that the amount of the annual allowance for each calendar year should be harmonised by at least as much as the annual leave amount for the public sector. The solution submitted provides for a minimum percentage of harmonisation of the annual allowance. This allows for the fulfilment of the coalition contract on the gradual increase of this supplement to 3/4 of the annual leave regression. Otherwise, I understand the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on pension and disability insurance as the result and logical implementation of our commitment, the coalition contract. We have entered into a coalition agreement to support the necessary amendments to the law on pension and disability insurance this year. In view of the fact that there has been virtually no reconciliation of pensions in the second half of last year and that pensions have even fallen in real terms over the last four years, we want to ensure, inter alia, a consistent, underlining, consistent alignment of pensions with wage increases and a gradual introduction of the right to a widow's pension of at least 10% for all pensioners in the beginning of 2006. The reconciliation of pensions contains an already existing law, but the formula for this coordination, according to your firm belief, is wrong or correct for the one who proposed this formula, and in some ways in the last four years for about two and a half pensions according to domestically said 'round' of our pensioners. Although this "stamped" the state treasury some 10 billion Slovenian tolars, which did not stay on the pile, they were spent for other purposes. On this occasion, I would like to highlight or highlight what we often forget, but there are some axioms in our and all pension systems. One of these axioms is that the pension is the continuation of the salary, indeed with some, mostly the reduction factor. The second axiom is that pensioners and employees share the same fate, it goes to some logical and, above all, human reciprocity. The pension is also not a social right, as it has been repeatedly exposed to today, stems definitely from paid contributions, so, for example, those who have a high salary must, or deserve, an adequate high pension, otherwise they could talk about a kind of decommissioning. In the long run, the fate of the pension system depends, of course, on the number of jobs. We fear, of course, how this proposed pension system will hold in perspective, it is human that we fear the future, where our reserve or just one of our reserves is. At the age range between 55 and 65 years of age, we have a poor quarter in Slovenia of 24% of employees, which is the least in Europe, that is certainly our reserve. One more thing to do. The proposed law is not DeSUS's law, nor is the LDS' law, nor is the law of New Slovenia, although the minister comes from our kind, this is a government law, I think it is good, so I will support it, I will not support the proposed amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u55	Thank you. Mr. Janc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Mr President, Mr Minister, colleagues, colleagues. The debate on the topic of the amendment proposed by the LDS colleagues does not, in my opinion, fall within this concept of the novel, which was somehow prepared in government services, and went through the procedure, through the debate also in today's national assembly, and is, of course, a very populist topic which covers, of course, six thousand pensioners in Slovenia, who are given the right they deserve in one way or another, and which is normally due to this right from retirement. Of course, the fact is that the differences between wages and pensions are increasing. Unfortunately, it is also true that, to the detriment of the Slovenian pensioners, and of course, I know that, as was said in this debate, the coalition, the parties made a promise and if they have promised something, it is also right to do something. That seems credible, correct, and so on. I am aware, and I know that before a difficult trial, the government and the minister are as well. This is not an easy area, it is not easy to prepare, to harmonise to these demographic movements that are in Slovenia. And that abnormal leap that has taken place in the last few years, the number, the comparison, the employee: the pensioner. That's a big Slovenian problem. And I believe that you have not said anything new that we are all aware of: Members, Minister and someone else in the Slovenian government and in Slovenia in general, because it is not an easy matter to overcome. Unfortunately, I will not support this amendment, but I will support this law, proposals, amendments, but with the conviction and the fact that the government itself or the minister has proposed that this story is not yet finished. I think that this problem will have to be really pursued and further corrected, further harmonisation, because of course this issue will not run out in the long run. I think that the Slovenian economy, which is already so much and so impoverished, that the number of unemployed, to pay in the economy - I come from Posavje, I come from a region where textile was once the main star, today is the main decline of this industry and, of course, pays extremely low, 70 thousand, Slovenian shame. And that everyone is sure to hurry and want as soon as possible to this biggest Slovenian company, ZPIZ, but they do not have the conditions and will not have them soon. And, of course, we will also have to find a model with the Ministry here together - not only the government, but also the coalition and the opposition - how, in all these demographic movements, to sort things out. I know, and I believe, it's quite a blow to the budget this year, the second year and so on and so forth. And I'm aware that this quota, which is going to flow in the budget one way or another, is not going to happen anywhere else. That's the logical thing to do. But it won't be for some other projects that the government probably has. However, I base and hope that even when my right is, if ever given, from this title, this intergenerational present will also be such that I myself will be able to receive some pensions, although it will probably be quite low. I also believe that, together with the government and with Parliament, we will find a model of how we can come out of this, in my opinion, from the difficult or one of the most difficult issues, including these coalitions and these governments, how we can translate this story. I think that this was also the problem of the previous governments and the previous coordinations were difficult, difficult, but somehow there was some reasonable agreement to some extent with all these partners. That way, I won't support this amendment right now, even though it's not so bad that I'm honest. However, I do not think that they are part of such a concept that the government, the Minister, has prepared, imagined and broken some relationship, and then this will not be the case, knowing once again that the Ministry, and above all the government, will find solutions how to proceed tomorrow, tomorrow at this extremely crucial moment, such as the PIC or pension protection.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u57	Thank you very much. I'd like to take the floor with you, Master Squeak.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I will begin with some objections, first of all with Minister Petty Officer. Firstly, it is not true that by introducing this annual allowance, the long-term pension would be the same, it is simply not true. Because this year’s allowance is actually the so-called 13th pension. There are still 12 pensions consistent with the contributions. It is true, however, that with this proposal we want to introduce more solidarity, solidarity will be needed. Not only solidarity within a generation of current pensioners, but, of course, solidarity between different generations of pensioners and that's why it's going here. It is so that our system of pension and disability insurance, like all other systems in the European Union, is actually bankrupt. And to the extent that we have not provided adequate transfers from the state budget since 2006 - and everyone contributes to the state budget regardless of how much he has already paid to the pension of course he would have been bankrupt. That's why, of course, this is wrong. Since, of course, we miss another minister in our debate, I miss the Minister of Finance. Mr Finance Minister is in Brussels today, where he is giving advice to the ministers of finance of neighbouring Italy and Portugal to reduce the deficit. You know, similar advice will be given to Mr. Minister of Finance of the Republic of Slovenia in 2007, when for a number of reasons, not only because of what we are accepting today, there will be serious problems in Slovenian public finances. Thirdly, Mr Minister is deceiving the public today. He says the government has prepared a strategic report on adequate and sustainable pensions. The government has not yet accepted the report. As far as I am aware, it would be good to know that before we decide today that this report should be presented. The National Assembly is that medium, that is the institution that requires this report not least. The Minister of Finance also spoke about this and said that there are quite a number of financial impacts. These financial impacts go to tens of billions; six billion this year, 12 billion the second year and then, after an exponential curve, up to about 28 billion at the end of the government's mandate. 28 billion additional or about half a percent gross domestic product. About half a percent of gross domestic product should be saved by the Minister of Finance. Some of you have said that this problem will be easily solved. We'll use money from owned insurance companies, for example. I must say that in accordance with the law on public finances adopted at the time of entry into the European Union, this is prohibited. Why is it forbidden? Since many Central European countries have thus saved, the fact that they have entered late into pension reform has saved them. In Hungary, Slovakia, in neighbouring Croatia, even in Poland, they sold out state assets for the current financing of the pension treasury. Of course, that's not something that's good. At the same time, of course, the Minister of Finance once even said, like Mr State Secretary, who is responsible for the implementation of the coalition agreement, that 12 billion is indeed not a problem in 1700 billion. If this is so, then 12 billion is not the problem, why did you reduce investments in the state road highway programme, 3 billion in science and research, at the time of the budget rebalancing by 10 billion. Here I am joining my colleague Brenčič, who says that this proposal is consistent also because he is considering different allocations. What's our proposal? Our proposal is actually trying to solve the classic problem of every pension system. This is that at the given rate of contribution, at the given number of payers and the average net salary, on one side of the balance sheet, on the other side of the balance sheet we have a relationship between the average pension and the number of pensioner. However, because in Slovenia the number of payers in the system is declining, not only because we have problems with unemployment, but because we have demographic problems and because the number of pensioners is increasing, the problem is insurmountable if we do not change the rate of contribution. We are aware of the problem introduced by the so-called Swiss formula in the existing pension system. As experts have also warned, it is necessary to find this with a social collective. This is actually what some other countries are doing today. In America - the system that my fellow Member was talking about - we are not talking about the pension system, we are talking about the social insurance system "Social security system". This social security system has become unsustainable. Why? Because they're already in that worst demographic hole. One more thing about numbers. Look, our proposal actually says this. According to 2004 pensioners, the majority of pensioners in the income class would receive between 30 and 50 thousand dollars more depending on 2004. Pensioners in the highest income class, over 150, 200 thousand, would get about 22 or 12 thousand. The government's proposal, however, says that these pensioners in the highest income class and these pensioners will be more and more, because they will gradually approach the ceiling, actually according to our proposal for almost 80 000 more, and the government is proposing that they receive 93 000 600 plus those pensioners who have the highest pensions for 2% of the indexation. This, as everyone knows, is actually more than the lowest pension. Pensioners with the lowest pension would receive only one quarter of their pension, about 18, 19,680 at an approximate number of 82 thousand. But for everyone, a kilo of sugar, a liter of milk is just as expensive. Therefore, if you have decided in the ruling coalition that you have 6, 12, 28 billion, 36 billion in this mandate available to increase your pensions, we suggest that you divide them so that more pensioners have a higher standard of living. This is a key issue of the pension system in any European country and also - as Mr Žnidaršič himself said - in North America. It is the fact that this pension system must also have social insurance elements built for demographic reasons, as a result of a reduction in the number of contributors and an increase in the number of pensioners. These are simple facts. But we're admitting it or not. But since 1996, when we've reduced the contribution rate, it's been happening. Of course, it is possible to raise the contribution rate, but it is likely that the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Economy will prevent this. That is why our proposal is more appropriate in our view. It is also true that we received 200,000 new pensioners in transition and that it probably reached the summit. However, we must be aware that the problem that will arise from today's legislation will be solved in the coming years, either by a similar proposal for an annual supplement or by increasing the contribution rate or by extending the period in which those who are not retired will be able to retire today. These are the facts, these are the numbers. I would therefore suggest that Mr Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs - for work, family and social affairs, there is no "pension" anywhere - and the Minister for Finance would submit this so-called strategic report. This strategic report was requested by the European Union because Slovenia said in a convergence programme that it would otherwise undertake the indexation of pensions as it had been in the past or that it would strengthen the indexation more. And in the European Union, this has been of concern to many. Allow me to conclude. Our proposal therefore introduces an additional element of solidarity. Solidarity between existing pensioners - and, Mr Jerovšek, solidarity between those who are retired today and you, that you may retire under today's conditions. Otherwise, you, me, and someone else will have to retire under worse conditions. That this is a serious problem, as well as yesterday's Standard & Poor's message. It's an international rating agency. Yesterday Standard & Poor's reported that for the first time since we became credit sustainability - and credit sustainability we became at the end of July 1994, when we passed a debt takeover law. For the first time, he said he wouldn't raise our rating, but he gave the so-called "stable," which is to say, "I'm keeping the same rating." Why? As he explained in his explanation, the proposal for indexation raises doubts as to whether Slovenia will be able to ensure the long-term sustainability of Slovenian public finances. The increase in Slovenia's rating has therefore stopped. This will have a few effects. One of the effects will be to stop falling interest rates for Slovenian entities, for companies from Slovenia and to stop reducing interest rates at which the Slovenian state budget is kept. That is why we believe that our proposal - we have long thought about it, we have designed it now. Why did we design it now? Since you have estimated in the ruling coalition that you have 70 billion to distribute, and if you do get them, we suggest that you share them in such a proposal, not that the pensioners who already have higher pensions will have the most of it. The simple fact is that in Slovenia more than two-thirds of pensioners have less than 150,000 tolars and would like to increase the social situation. How do we increase it? As the law states, each year when the state budget is adopted, the National Assembly shall decide on a proposal from the Government in agreement with the Pension and Disability Insurance Office. In doing so, account shall be taken of the movement of pensions and salaries in the year preceding the determination of the amount of the annual allowance. We believe that this is a corrective proposal, not a headless indexation, which will give this government a lot of leverage at the time of adopting the 2006-2007 draft budget and all of us. But it is your responsibility, gentlemen in the ruling coalition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u59	Thank you very much. A replica? Mag. Gnyardsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u60	When I was citing American data, I just wanted to say that it's an insurance right, and that's just the way it is. What happened to the cash register is irrelevant. In a court of law, that's the win, the donkeys go bankrupt, at least in that system. But so do others. That's what I was gonna say. The proposal for this amendment has a very weak point, namely that it is significantly more expensive than the solution offered by the amendment of this law. I've calculated at least twice as much money. This year it would mean, like now, a calculation. On the other hand, it's not indexation for the "richer". This amendment is an annual supplement, which is laid down in the law to get those who have higher pensions, lower pensions, and those who nominally and more quickly increase those who have lower pensions. And this -- I'd say -- social model in a sense is kind of fenced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u61	Thank you very much. At the same time I apologize to you for not having previously noticed that you have applied to the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u62	Thank you very much. I really expected your associate to notice me because we were watching when I had my hand. I'm sorry I didn't call three times to be recorded. About half an hour ago, it should have been your turn, and yet, thank you very much. In our parliamentary group of Social Democrats, as colleague Han said, we will support the law. We are convinced that it includes some elements that are positive and that we should talk about in the pension system sooner or later. It is right to re-evaluate what are the insurance bases, of which contributions are paid and in this respect the law gives the necessary improvements. I hope that the law will make improvements in terms of the obligation to pay contributions and recover contributions and that it is no longer necessary to discuss whether any worker is really the one who has to worry every month that the payment of the contribution has come to the pension and disability insurance institution if he has received the salary and is regularly employed. This is an important contribution. I am firmly convinced that the requirements we had in 1999 when we adopted the law - my client was in opposition at the time, and yet we participated very intensively in the adoption of the law - there were many discussions, whether and how to introduce widow's pensions or not. In principle, in my client we consider that this is a positive definition in law. As a result, it has financial obligations, but it is aimed at strengthening family relations and solving problems in the event of the death of one of the spouses when living conditions are rapidly changing. This can also be very important. I firmly believe that discussions on changing coordination systems would be necessary. I am very pleased that Mr Sok quoted me as saying four years ago because I think so today. I said the system should ensure harmonised wage and pension growth. This is what I think today, and whenever there are really great anomalies in this area, it would be necessary to discuss this. Therefore, I am not surprised that we are discussing this today and that better or worse are solutions, because all are not well and thoughtfully proposed. But it bothers me very much, I admit, because we are discussing this from the point of view of many times the great demagogies, the untruths, the fabrication of certain facts. This will be particularly damaging to you who are doing this because so far we have not had to do this in the opposition. The proposaler himself, who said that everything needed to be rectified because in 1999 the wrong decisions that had consciously affected so many and so many pensioners had been made consciously later on. The percentages you use in this are very different from the minister who speaks of four, one of the Members said six, from my colleague Žnidaršič, who said eight. I don't know what percentage it's going to take. But building a change in the system on the fact that we now have a good coalition compared to what was formerly "evil" and wanted to take some rights from pensioners, I don't think it's gonna be long. In a year, we'll have two magnetograms again, and we'll be able to see what anyone has said. I'm afraid one of you might be more embarrassed than I was when the magnetogram was quoted four years ago. For we know that the whole of Europe and the whole world, where they have a social system, faces the problems of pension reform, that it is not even today in these conditions, unfortunately, never for an eternity, and that it is constantly being re-evaluated as to the extent to which the effects we want are being achieved and where certain adjustments are needed. It is necessary to ensure the necessary sustainability between the burdens of this system and between the rights that mean the continuation of work, not some gift given by the State, but must nevertheless be in some proportion to the possibilities. And there are a lot of problems here. Therefore, it does not show them to be simplified in the way you have, ladies and gentlemen, but one lady was also in the midst of whom some of the Members, ladies and gentlemen, as well as the Minister, you spoke. That's probably not the best thing to do. If we were to offer us more reliable data, including long-term data, it would be easier for everyone. Surely the law is such that it fulfils all the conditions because it also has the financial obligations envisaged. Whether they will be exactly as they were written or not, we will see. The rapid account shows that they're not well calculated. In particular, not because of coordination, which now means backward coordination for the whole year, if there is a gap because there is coordination from 1.1. current year. This can mean a considerable amount of resources in mass. But this is the end of the coalition's responsibility, which in this way proposes proposals and wants them to be accepted. We will help this reception with our votes, because it is funny, really funny, that it wants to show that some Members and Members or some parties want to politically harm themselves and 500,000 pensioners, while others would have different interests. It is more of a matter of responsibility and serious reflection on an extremely difficult subject than of demagogism and the resolution of some pre-election promises that could or could have been made in haste. Therefore, to me, the reference to the fact that only a pre-election promise is the one that means fulfillment, no matter how it was given, is not wise. I think the solution should be useful for everyone in the long run. And if I didn't waste my time, I would just give my attitude to the amendment we're talking about. I'll back him up. Although I admit that I also believe that it is not completely designed to be fully operational. I understand, however, that, like colleague Brenčič, it includes two elements. One that means a different way of determining an annual allowance than the government proposes. In this part, my fellow Members and my fellow Members, I do not have myself, because I did not make it, a final reckoning, whether it is a little more or less in the absolute amount of the amount proposed by the Government. Anyway, I'm saying he's better. Why better? This is because, in the same way as the government proposal, it takes into account social elements and reduces differences. Because the government proposal also has two categories, lower and higher, depending on how much pension someone receives. The proposal is better because it introduces step-by-step and does not make those big differences - you know, if these corrections are done, they are the worst. If you make too much a sex difference, then one tolar higher or lower a pension gives you a government proposal that makes a difference of almost 30 or more than 30 thousand. But if you go step-by-step, these differences are smaller. In six groups, this step-by-step change is certainly better. That's the first reason. And the others. Because I understand that this system could allow each year, with the responsible government, to discuss and decide what ways, procedures, percentages of the coordination of pensions with actual wage movements, living costs, inflation and the like in the country. In this second part, this would be a serious debate every year on the budget, which - I hope - would find useful solutions for all these elements, but not set percentages, mechanisms that could become more questionable sooner than later. My colleagues and colleagues in the coalition - I hope - will remember that even when we changed the pension coordination system last year. First of all, it's not true that you wouldn't have done it without coordination, no. The full coordination was also with DeSUS and the social partners gave their consent. On every occasion, I personally said that I do not believe any formula, that it will work for all eternity as it was intended. And I hope to repeat that again today. Because if the movements are significantly different from the idea that someone had when they were calculating the formula, they give him a distorted picture. Then he wonders why the result is different and begins to think that the formula needs to be changed. And we have done this many times in previous years, and many times we have done it wrong. I agree, but I think it's wrong for anyone to judge that he was doing this consciously in order to dictate to the pensioners or to take away their right. In this part, this system, which the amendment includes, might be better because we would think about real relationships every time and we would be able to make real decisions, but not apply some fictitious formulas that produce such or other results. That's why I'm going to support the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Let me say that we are still in Article 11 and that we have two articles and two amendments, according to time. It's Mr. Testen's turn.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u64	Thank you for your word. Throughout this debate, I have found that with the last or, I will say, the proposals of the last months of the LDS are listening to act in this direction in order to do the most possible harm. I understand they want to harm the government and the coalition. I do not understand, however, that they want to harm Slovenia, because if you see it at the same meeting when they propose that an amendment be adopted in this way, which undoubtedly means an increase in the pension allowance. At the same meeting, they also propose to abolish the tax on paid salaries under one point. This means that, on the one hand, they are trying to revive the area of the revenue part of the budget as much as possible; on the other hand, they are trying to increase the expenditure portion. I recall very well the debate when we discussed the law on income, the so-called student law. One of the non-committals said, "If you've given the pensioners, give them to the students." Now this thing is going on. If you've given the students, give them to the pensioners. And so on and so forth. I think this thing is going this way. Pensions have to be increased because they're too small and because they don't follow salaries. However, I do not agree with the proposed amendment, which, by the very contents of the way these annual allowances are paid, has an idea, but it is certainly an absolute increase in the amounts. We on the Committee on Budgetary Control and Public Finance have also considered pension legislation and we have had an expert who has told us that any law you adopt will be a problem. I believe him, and I think he said it right. Because if I stayed in my old marriage, some year later we would have social problems with the pensioners, because there would undoubtedly be a reduction in pensions. The adoption of this law increases the pension register, and this will also have its consequences. In the long term, it has been calculated that in a few years - it is said - over 25, 30 pension bills will have significantly more impact on the budget, which is undoubtedly true. But there are also solutions that are being used in Europe. It is certain that by increasing the life expectancy it will also be necessary to think in the long term in Slovenia in this direction in order to partially compensate for this problem of pension allowance even with longer working hours. When Mr Cwickl listed billions, why you took 10 billion for investments in roads, I would like to tell him that we were in trouble because of that 70 billion budget hole that had to be patched up. This made the balance much harder to work. As for this - I do not know exactly who said in the debate - that some salaries are lower than pensions, that is to say - I agree with this opinion. Only in these cases do I think it is necessary to save wages, not pensions. Some wages in some of the work - intensive industries are a very big problem for us. That's why I think it's also the task of the state to do something about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u65	Thank you very much. My word to Mr. Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u66	Thank you. A colleague who just spoke reminded me of a change in income legislation. Because someone said that it was necessary to give to both students and pensioners. Otherwise, he told the students, then the pensioners. I hope that this did not give priority to weight either, so who is entitled and who is not. In other words, I wanted to dismantle some of the data that my colleague provided in order to reduce the number of those who contribute to the pension register. No, it's getting bigger. That's what's good. Don't fool around with information. And last, very briefly. The Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs is indeed one that also deals with pensions, although this does not appear in the title. Because the pension is the result of work.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u67	Thank you. My word to Dr. Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u68	Thank you very much. I would still say a few words to this debate, to this article. It is undeniable that the gap between income and expenditure in the pension register is increasing. This is also true of the current system, as the analysis shows, that in 20, 30 years - in fact, we can only count on this ratio - even on 40%. Which means 40% of the salary will be charged, not like today's 70, 80, and so on. That's the first thing. And the other thing is the undeniable fact that one group of pensioners and pensioners, represented through the parties and pension organisations, is not satisfied with the current consensus - if I may say so - and believes that there is too much to give up in this consensus or that it has to give up more than the others. This fact is also legitimate. You just have to admit it because it's like that. And we need to save him. But not the way this law saves him. I think that the fundamental principle that we should follow is that in economic development it would happen to us and is as it is. I'm not going to tell him that no group should actually be on the worse side. Pensioners and pensioners should not be on the worse side. And they have to get pensions, so much as they can't get a pension, they can't get any smaller. You keep telling me it's getting smaller. That's not true! However, it must also increase depending on the economic situation and pensioners must participate equally in the social wealth that is created and produced. This is the basis of the proposal proposed by the Liberal Democrats' House. It's a matter of suggestion. And this is also more sustainable than a sustainable proposal proposed by the ruling coalition as a result of a pre-election promise. But well, I have to say, above all, that at seven, fourteen, twenty-eight, thirty-six, I don't know how many billion, more concerned about another fact that can't be described in billions. And it is also, I would say, reflected in today's speech by some Members. In fact, something more terrible is being drawn for us, if I may say so, and this is an intergenerational conflict that can lead to unwitting consequences that we can hardly be aware of. Talking about young economists - by the way, I agree with a lot of things, but I disagree with a lot of things - talking about young economists who have not yet earned the cost of last year's education, who therefore do not deserve to read to others, seems extremely unrealistic and irresponsible. It seems irresponsible to me that you do not listen to the voices of those who think otherwise and point out that today's solution will be a solution for two years, then, after the next election, if you think you will win, you will have to change the system, and that very roughly and very strongly. I am concerned that this incision is actually made between the older generations and the younger generations and that this intergenerational solidarity at social level begins. And these consequences will not be evaluated only in money. Strategic report, I'm very interested in where he is. Following the Act on Access to Public Information, the draft should even be published on the website, even in the draft proposal. He's not here. So the report will come after the law is passed. I really don't know what that's for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u69	Thank you very much. I also invite Mr Juban to the floor, and then Mr Minister, if no one else will apply in the meantime.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Chairman. In any case, I will support the law, and at the same time, I will support the amendment. Not because I was convinced by my fellow Members, but because of the debaters today and always. Today, those who spoke about the shortcomings of the current law, which, as we have heard, was adopted for a very long time and we were able to listen to stories that go precisely in this direction, as this amendment suggests or very similar. First of all, today was a talk about how the situation of some groups would deteriorate under the current law, which in part or symbolically, this amendment was gradually being remedied. In the past, however, we have heard very long debates here, which have spoken exactly about it or very much the same about what we are proposing to reduce differences. Even so far - some of you will remember when we even had the proposed ratio of one to three. I would, whoever takes this demagogue or whatever, support this proposal today. But of course they wouldn't back me up here because everyone loves themselves so much that they wouldn't be able to do it, and the government would never suggest it. And I'm afraid he'll never be. Although when we talk about how it is arranged elsewhere in the world, there are different systems, they may or may not be our orientation. For the American system, Mr Žnidarsic said how he looked like he was bound. But we also have a system where we provide someone with a suitable, very suitable social base, say Australians. But if you have your own income, suitable or high, you get nothing from the checkbook, even though you paid a lot. So there's a very difficult discussion in this direction. Even in this Chamber, when we were in power, we often listened to suggestions from the opposition about how to distribute as much as possible and how to put as little money into the state treasury as possible. I hear it's the story of the opposition all over again. Of course, today this has met you, but in this extreme we do not propose a solution and this solution is not so far away in this direction. Even in this Chamber, my fellow Member, Pukšič, once told me that workers in the labour intensive sectors have low wages because you are in power. I'm waiting for my Murina workers to be in the future, not tomorrow, because that's not possible, in the future they'll have an appropriate and better payment under new authority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u71	Thank you. Mr. Gulic, then Mr. Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u72	Dear Presidents, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! I will support the amendment for a simple reason because it is better than a government proposal. But I'd touch on whether pensions are a social category or not. Of course they are. They're bleeding. It is necessary to look at what is being fueled by these pensions, secondly, how the intergenerational alignment arises, who are all living by these pensioners and not by those who have the lowest pensions, not by those who have the highest pensions. That's why I think it's much better to get fewer people who already have a lot and more who have little to alleviate this poverty. She won't be saved.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u73	Thank you. Mr. Brenčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u74	Thank you very much. I am in the debate, on the issue of this amendment, I have often heard the thesis that some fellow Members decide will have to resolve the future stability of the pension system through longer working hours. I hope we're aware of what we're talking about. The man's working life has been 40 years now. We need to know that employment in the present tense is largely prone to a specific time. That this employment gives certain stressful moments to people who are now young. Imagine how this affects the working age of the 40s. Young intellectuals are now employed virtually at the age of 30, after the age of 28. 40 years of working age means 78 years and 68 years of age. To know what we are talking about - I say that 40 years of working time is the full maximum for the current stressful situation, which is being experienced mainly by those people who now have their careers and their active ways of working. So I'm a little worried that this is where they're moving the matter. I have already pointed out this at the starting points of the Lisbon strategy that we need to pay close attention to whether we can go beyond the age of 40. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u75	Thank you very much. The Minister wanted to discuss this last article, so I would like to invite you again if anyone else wanted to discuss Article 11 and the amendment? Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u76	Just one sentence. I would like to reiterate that, while this amendment of the LDS may at first seem to be very attractive. But from what they have proposed, it is clear that this proposal is not serious because it should be, in fact, what colleague Brenčič has already found is the proposed amendment to Article 7, not what you have proposed. It is unacceptable in this Article. Then you must amend Section 7 of this Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u77	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u78	So the government does not support this amendment for two reasons. One is systemic and the other is substantive. It was somehow clear from the debate that this proposal for valorisation and this system would in fact replace the indexation of pensions, which is totally unacceptable from the insurance point of view. We absolutely reject that in order to replace it. However, if this is an additional coordination measure, it means much more spending, which is inconsistent with your intentions and taking care of the pension allowance. This amendment cannot, in any way, be supported and, of course, not proposed. There's more payers in the insurance system. I would like to emphasise, this is seen from statistics and the number of employees is increasing, not much, but increasing. Secondly, with regard to data on gross national product and the share of pensions in the costs of a social gross product, you can also see in the explanation of the law, where it is clear that the proportion of pensions in a national product is decreasing throughout the country, irrespective of the fact that the number of pensioners is increasing, which is another significant argument as to how this relationship between salaries and pensions is actually getting worse. The relationship between pensions and salaries is also presented - in fact, the government has not invented, however, but is the data of the Institute of Pensions and Disability Insurance. There's no ideology here, there's only data here. And if we point it out. This reconciliation of pensions will still leave this gap between salaries and pensions. The trend will remain. Why? Because Article 151 is still in force, and all the other articles of this Act, which are the result of an intergenerational agreement and this reform. In fact, the basis for calculating pensions is still being extended. Calculation of the pension base as well as the result, unfortunately, also the reduction of pensions compared to salaries. Even if we consistently applied the formula as a technical calculation, this would happen to us. This is actually the debate of all these economists, which do not stem from the legal provisions and our intention to coordinate. That's why all these, like, inexplicable things. If we followed the principles that lower pensions were to be coordinated differently from higher pensions, all would have the same pensions in the long run. Mr Brenčič, I simply have to answer you, it is mathematically valid if you reconcile different pensions with the same percentage, then you always have the same relationship between pensions. That's clear, it follows from mathematics. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Wait, but the value is always increasing, even with respect to the limit. The limit remains at the same level in order to thicken pensions on the so-called ceiling, as the foundation is constantly increasing, the basis for the calculation of pensions. These are simple answers. And there's a law on these numbers.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u79	Thank you very much. The debate on Article 11 of the amendment is still ongoing. Next, Mr. Pottsch, then Mr. Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u80	Thank you very much. I am very happy, and finally, the sincere words of the Minister, who is also holding precisely and to see what the data he himself gave on page 5 looks like, will be very similar to what he was just talking about. They are the result of a change in the system, which is a dose base that is reduced each year. That's how we set it in 1999. At the same time, it reduces the percentage for one who has already retired by 0.5% precisely to equalize or approach a new dose base. And if you look at 2.1., 2.2. minus 0.4., 2.2., 2.3. minus 0.6. 2.3., 2.4. minus 0.8. These are the changes that are very close to this system. It's a good thing to finally say it, not talk about who ever stole something from someone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u81	Thank you. Mr. Brenčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, don't get me wrong. When I said that my approach to this amendment, if we were to deepen into the situation, was somewhat close, I came mainly from the last paragraph of this amendment. This is said to be the one in the annual budget or in the law on the implementation of the budget to give elements for the annual allowance, which would, in other words, be the replacement coordination of pensions and the current allowance for recreation. In that sense, I understood this amendment. I could have misunderstood him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u83	Thank you very much. May I conclude the debate on Article 11 and the amendment tabled? I guess I can. We continue the debate on Article 25 on the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group of Members and the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia. Who wants a word? Mr. Potts.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u84	Thank you very much. The proposal we make stems from the fact that it would be right for those who are the most important part to be paid into the pension fund. These are the insurers themselves and, on the other hand, employers also influence decision-making in the world of the institution through their forms of organisation. We think and stress that the pension reform adopted in 1999 was not only a form of an intergenerational agreement but also an agreement between the social partners and the composition of the then Assembly of the current Council of the Institute was explicitly one of the content of these agreements or rightly so important potential or not, is another thing. But he was. The explicit change in composition today does not have the consent of the social partners. Thirdly, we think it is bad that the government wants to go wherever it is possible to ensure its majority, so that it can also decide where, in fact, the substantive decisions are taken in a different way. The Council of the Institute has so few powers that there is really no need for the government to have a working, I say, majority. Formally, 27 is not the majority. With only a few skills, the working majority is assured, in any case, if decisions are not repeated for so long. Mr Minister, we have experience in appointing a director in this mandate. This is also an important reason for changing the composition of the congregation, since it is necessary to ensure such discipline that it never happens again. We therefore believe that there are no real reasons, except that I have said this, and I hope to repeat here, the caprice, that the composition of the institution's world is formed as suggested by the government. I expect that the understanding that at least at this point, if not already and if this is not already the case with different human resources solutions, will take account of the agreement between the social partners and support our amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to discuss Article 24? Mr. Capuder.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u86	Thank you. Under the applicable legislation, the institution of compulsory pension and disability insurance may be organised as a public institution or as a public fund. In the light of the legislation establishing how public institutions are organised, changes to the composition or management of this fund or public institution have also been proposed. Until now, the current institution's arrangements are based on previous self-government interest communities where the Assembly and the Management Board have run an institution. However, according to the law on institutions, this institution shall operate by the Council or by another college authority, represented by representatives of the founder and the interested community, as well as representatives of the employees. The government proposal is aimed at having 10 members in this 27. I don't think that means much. I think it will allow the government that is involved in most of the revenue in this institution to react appropriately. [[..]] [[Warning signal.]] [[....]] [[Incomprehensible.]] I won't support the amendment. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mag. Squeak.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u88	The government's proposal is to support the institution and, in fact, to attach pension funds to the state budget. In doing so, it must be said that both the Public Finance Act and the other legislation do not provide for this. That is why we have proposed an amendment, in any form, either in the form of what we have proposed or as proposed by the Social Democrats. We believe that it ensures that what is crucial is that the Economic Social Council, that Slovenia fully manages the pension fund, is therefore also opposed to the economic social world. It's a shame the government doesn't understand the role of employers or the role of unions. But that's obviously another story. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mrs. Purgatory.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u90	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I will support the proposed amendment of the Social Democrats, which in itself is not so surprising because I come from this parliamentary group, but it is a substantive justification for the proposal. Because I understand that the pension is not only a right from work but also an right to intergenerational bargaining, but also a right that can be discussed in one part as a social category. It is right to take into account the agreement and the possibility to influence the decisions of those who contribute most to the cash register. Therefore, it seems to me that the proposal of the first amendment, which discusses how the institution is managed by the 27-member board of the institution, is an appropriate solution and it would be good if the government listened to both the opposition's proposals and the social partners' proposals in its proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u92	Well, the government listened to the social partners and so changed this proposal, which was originally very different. Since the 27th, he has only 10 members, which means about a third. And if it is such representation, it means taking into account social dialogue. It's not about voting, it's about voting the government, it's about coordinating. Every citizen can explain what 10 out of 27 is. However, any decision requires a majority.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u93	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate on Article 24 and on the two amendments. I am opening the debate on the last Article 33 and the amendment of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia. I find that DeSUS, NSI, more or less LDS don't have any more time. Yes, Mr. Potch.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Well, I would like to say that it was in Article 33 that I understood my understanding of the content of the basic amendment. In fact, the amount of the annual allowance shall be determined by the PIZ on a proposal from the Government each year and the ranges in the basic text shall be set there. Like, 70% of the average wage between 100 and 130. In short, within this range, the government may decide each year and the same shall apply to all other categories. And I, my colleague Cvikl did not hear me say - and I also said from the explanation of the basic amendment given by the LDS, but really not from the basic text, I understood that this also meant a link to the system of coordination of the annual after 150.a and b article, which I thought was the possibility of making really concrete decisions each year in view of the real situation. However, since I know and we probably all know that there is nothing eternal in the pension system as well, if, for example, this system showed some anomalies or over-compensation, and too little consideration for paid contributions - what we would have done when we passed the law in 1999 - whether we would have shown that the system is simply not able to follow, but perhaps we would have talked about changing it eventually. The mathematical formulas, once again, I am afraid that this time they will prove to be questionable and that this government will have to correct them, or whether the next government will say again that this government has been consciously making poor pensioners, so something needs to be corrected later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u95	Thank you very much. I find that the debate is no longer on the table, so I conclude it. Yes, of course, and the minister. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u96	The Government does not support this amendment, so it also refers to the previous amendment. It should be noted that this one-year annual allowance takes into account the socio-economic situation or the amount of pension benefits. Those who have a higher pension have a smaller allowance. Those who have a lower pension have a higher allowance. In fact, this principle has behaved as a good one and there has been no substantial proposal for any change throughout the previous period. These changes to the law relate to height. However, the ratio between higher and lower pensions is slightly decreasing.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u97	More mag. Squeak. You have one second.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u98	I see you've understood in the government. This amendment retains indexation - a different annual supplement, but indexation as in the applicable law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u99	Thank you very much. I take it that the debate is closed. Thank you all very much. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 17th agenda or at the latest at 21.15 a.m. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 3. POINT OF THE DAY - OTHER DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSAL OF WORKING TIME AND OBLIGATIONS OF MOBILE WORKERS AND WRITING EQUIPMENT IN ROAD TRANSPORT. I welcome the Minister of Transport and his associates! For this item, the total time of debate is 1 hour and 35 minutes. The draft law was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly, so I give the floor to the representative of the government, probably the minister, for an explanation. Please present this behind the speaker’s stage; this is our custom. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u100	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The draft law provides for the implementation of Council EEC Regulation 3820/85 and Regulation 3821/85 with all its amendments, the competent authorities and their powers, and the tasks of the holders of public powers and their powers, the manner in which powers are conferred, official records and fines for offences. In addition, the proposal for a law on the Slovenian legal order is transposed by Council Directive 88/599 EEC, which regulates the supervisory procedures for the implementation of the above-mentioned Regulations for Directive 2002/15 EC of the European Parliament and of the Council, which deals in more detail with certain issues and areas of working time for mobile workers. The draft law leaves provision for sub-legislative regulation to deal with certain specific issues which may be regulated by such a regulation in accordance with the Slovenian legal order. In the general provisions, the proposed law mainly mentions the content mentioned and contains definitions relating to the law below. In the next chapter, the proposed law regulates working time and compulsory rest, stressing that it is only the adoption of the provisions of Directive 2002/15 EC of the European Parliament and of the Council. The most extensive chapter of the proposed law governs recording equipment in road transport, which is otherwise subject to the most common term tachograph. The fields of competence of workshops and memory cards are regulated under this Chapter. The control and reporting chapter shall be followed where control powers are regulated. The following chapter, criminal provisions, the proposal for a law lays down offences and fines for violating the provisions of both provisions of the European Agreement on the Work of Crews of Vehicles engaged in international road transport as a result of this law. In its last chapter of the future and final provisions, this proposed law first imposes on the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia a time limit for the granting of public authority. In addition, it allows currently authorised analogue tachograph workshops to continue to carry out this activity on the basis of existing powers, pending the acquisition of a new authorisation. In addition, the proposed law also repeals the provisions of Articles 73 to 81 of the Road Safety Act, which have so far regulated the working time of drivers and tachographs, and Article 10 of the Regulation on Road Traffic Equipment and Equipment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u101	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. In the framework of the legislative procedure, the draft law dealt with the Transport Committee as its parent working body. I ask the representative of the committee to submit his report.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u102	A nice greeting to all present on my behalf as well. At its 6th meeting, held on 29 June and following this meeting on 1 July, the Transport Committee held a second reading of the draft law on working time and compulsory rest of mobile workers and recording equipment in road transport submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on a regular basis. At the request of a group of Members, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia held a general debate on the draft law at its 7th meeting, 22.6., and adopted a decision that was appropriate for further consideration. Representatives of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia, as well as representatives of the Association of Drivers and Automechanics of Slovenia, also participated in the meeting of the Committee on Transport. The proposed law was given a written opinion by the legislature of the National Assembly, which was held on 28 June earlier. Within the framework of the business deadline, the amendment to Article 4 of the Act was tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party, the New Slovenia, the Slovenian People's Party and the Democratic Party of the Pensioners' Group. In its written opinion, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia commented on a number of articles of the bill. The representatives of the Legislative and Legal Service explained at the meeting of the Committee that their service in a written opinion noted that the proposal for a law was rather incomprehensible and could perhaps even raise questions of compliance with Article 2 of the Constitution, which states that Slovenia is a state of law. After several interpretations from the Constitutional Court, this means that the legal texts must be clear and understandable to the average citizen. According to the legislative and legal services, the proposed legislative text is very vague and lacking in the definition of basic concepts and institutions, and very detailed on the other hand. In some cases, even to the extent that it is a matter of regulating matters which are mostly technical in nature and which could, by their nature, be left to further regulation within the framework of sub-legislative acts, since they are only related to the implementation of this law. In accordance with Articles 126 and 131 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Transport Committee held a debate and a vote on the individual articles of the bill and amendments. The Committee adopted, as its own amendments to Articles 1 to 3, 8 to 10 to 13, 15, 17, 19, 23, 29, 32 and 42 of the law and the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 4. The amendments adopted by the Committee as their own are mostly followed by proposals and comments from the legislative and legal services and some are editorial in nature. It was pointed out that the law was not incomprehensible, not to that extent, that its provisions could be put into question in compliance with the Constitution, but that it was the application of the texts of EU regulations and directives. For this reason, the text may be a little more difficult to read. Following a discussion on the individual articles of the draft law and following a discussion and a vote on the amendments tabled in accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Transport Committee voted on all the articles of the draft law and adopted them in the light of the amendments adopted and, in accordance with Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a supplementary proposal for the Law on Working Time and Compulsory Holidays of Mobile Workers and road transport equipment, which is an integral part of the report of the Committee, has been prepared. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u103	Thank you. Since the Committee held its first consideration of the bill's proposal to present the views of the parliamentary groups at the 7th meeting, we are moving on to the debate on the amendments tabled to the individual articles, which I will lead on the basis of the review of the amendments of 12.7. this year. I am putting to the debate Article 2 and the amendment of the Group of Members of the Social Democrats. Who wants a word? My friend Webber.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u104	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to the minister and his associates. Article 2 of this Act refers to the transposition into the Slovenian legal order of the world regulations relating to road transport and to the Council regulation on tachograph or road traffic control device. In doing so, I would like to point out the fact that it is precisely the transposition of regulations and directives into the Slovenian legal order, at least in my opinion, that there are very great problems, as the law is somehow not harmonised. Regulations, directives, national legislation are intertwined. However, there is certainly no clear text in this law that could really talk about the transposition of the European acquis into our national legislation. In this article, the problem is particularly highlighted, even when Slovenia is supposed to enforce its national legislation even in the territories of the other members of the European Union. Therefore, not only are we to regulate national legislation or transpose Europe into our national legislation, this article is written in such a way as to transpose our national legislation into other European countries. Of course, I believe that this is beyond our competence and it is not intended to do so, it cannot be the purpose of national legislation to prescribe them for other Member States. Therefore, in the second paragraph of Article 2, after the words "road transport", we propose that the text in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia should be added, or it could be read, or not least, that this law applies to mobile workers employed in undertakings established in a Member State of the European Community when carrying out road transport activities to which the Regulation applies, provided that it applies under the second paragraph of Article 2. In short, this law applies after what is written down at this moment, practically throughout the European Union. Which, as I said, is certainly beyond the powers of Parliament of the Republic of Slovenia. We propose to add to this article that this legislation is in force in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u105	Thank you. My word to my colleague Pavli.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u106	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, marriage isn't bad, but I'm sure it could be better. Which surprises me, given that two eminent Slovenian legal experts participated in it and that is why they also received good money if I am not mistaken - 10 million Slovenian tolars. And I'll tell you how we can improve it. To begin with the adoption of all amendments including the amendment to Article 2. The law or its proposal introduces two directives into the Slovenian legal order, establishes the competent authorities, their powers and tasks, the holders of public powers, their powers and the manner in which those powers are conferred, and the official records and fines for the implementation of the two regulations of the Council of the European Union. As we know, transposition of regulations is not possible for a simple reason because they apply directly. The Directives, however, regulate the field of working time differently from our labour relations law. Therefore, despite the great effort that has been made, the proposal for a law is still difficult to understand and is poorly transparent. I therefore draw attention to the rule of law here, which also includes the comprehensibility of the rules. Remember the ancient Roman legal principle of 'ignorantia iuris cuque nocturne', therefore, ignorance of the rules is damaging, this principle still applies today, but I ask you how citizens and citizens and all those to whom this regulation applies understand a regulation that is difficult to understand. I'm sorry, but I don't think the Chairman's explanation that the law is a little hard to read is entirely sufficient. With hypertrophy, the saturation of the Slovenian acquis with European legislation, Slovenian legislation, with international conventions, is least to be expected that all the addressees will be able to read and understand the legal texts. In this case, there are 25,000 drivers, 15,000 responsible persons, 4,000 police officers and inspectors, and they could still be listed. Interestingly, it has already been announced in advance that specific manuals will have to be developed to understand this law. This shows that this principle of legality and light understanding is distorted and neglected. Since we will obviously have to deal with some other areas in a similar way in the future, we see in our Liberal Democracy Club in this also a challenge for Slovenian legal science. As you will recall, in the general debate we have already raised the issue of the impact of legal solutions on the competitiveness of Slovenian road transport and the state of social legislation in road transport in countries in which competition for our road transport is coming. This issue was also raised by the representative of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. In the Liberal Democracy Club, we accept the interpretation that this is a specific regulation of lex specialis, that on these issues, on the law on working relations, whose working time rules are more favourable than special rules, will not apply and that these specific rules, which must be uniform, harmonised in all countries of the European Union, apply in our country. However, if this regulation - and here I appeal to all Members and Members and also to the executive branch - in spite of all the assurances that our economy and our road transport sector will become a non-competitive factor, we will require immediate action. And another piece of information that's interesting. According to our data, drivers in neighbouring Austria still have to drive 56 hours per week at the request of employers, taking into account the reference period of 12 months. The procedure for the transposition of Directive 2002/15 has not yet started in its legal order. So much for equal and similar treatment of similar problems in other EU Member States. Once again, the principle comes to the fore. The proposed law to say some positive things is undoubtedly part of a very, very important social legislation in road transport or in transport law in general, which, together with the principle of transport safety, environmental protection, population mobility and economic supply, is a red thread of such a European transport policy, let us hope that the new transport policy adopted by the government last week is also a part of it. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia Club, we believe that the proposed law will also improve transport safety through an extensive chapter dealing with digital tachographs. But once again we want the text to be easier to understand and, of course, also easier to access to all users. We will therefore support all amendments, not just the amendment to Article 2. But we will not object to the adoption of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u107	Thank you, colleague Pavlich. Before giving the floor to my colleague Zagorec, I would just like to point out that the content of the amendment to Article 2 is currently under discussion. We continue the debate. Comrade Zagorac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u108	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your warning. As regards the second amendment and all the other amendments proposed by the Social Democrats' Group of Members, of course they cannot oppose the content of the law. The law, they forced us to draft the law, I will say, a number of EU directives. If we know that we have already missed the implementation of these directives, that the law has to be fastened and that is the content of the proposed legislation. The bill was written very vaguely. And when I heard a representative or chairman of the Committee on Transport say that a number of amendments or a number of articles have been made to the legal service, I would just like to say that only two articles have not been given, and one article is the one that says when the law enters into force. So, he's setting up a vacatio legis. The legal service therefore had comments on all the articles of that law. As for certain warnings given to the Slovenian national party already at the first reading of the proposed law, which were then summarised by the Transport Section at the Chamber of Commerce, I must say that I am very sad that the Ministry has not listened to the comments and remains in the definition of working time, just as it has now been done. It is said that the driver waiting at the border for more than half an hour is no longer his working time, but the time when the driver is available or the carrier. Likewise, I will say, there are worrying criminal sanctions when a truck driver violates traffic regulations, while sanctioning, inter alia, the legal person in which the carrier is employed. It is impossible, at least it seems impossible for me to predict whether or not the driver will be in breach of traffic regulations on his way. Then you punish another, I'll say, legal person. I don't think it's possible for an employer to figure out what kind of driver he's hiring at some point. As I said in the introduction, as far as the amendments they have drafted in the Social Democrats Group are concerned, they are almost impossible to oppose in the light of the poorly prepared law. Because I think in this case they're just improving what we have ahead of us today. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u109	Thank you. I'd like to take the floor with my colleague, Joseph Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u110	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Mr. Minister with colleagues! In New Slovenia, we will not support the proposed amendment to Article 2 because we do not necessarily need it. Why? At the meeting of the parent working body, this is, on the Committee of the National Transport Assembly, we heard an explanation from one of the co-authors of Dr Rajko Pirnat, who says: "This law applies to all mobile workers who are employed by any company established in any Member State. It is understandable, however, that only for the time they work in the territory of Slovenia. Every Slovenian law applies only in the territory of Slovenia, but we do not normally write this in law. It should be taken into account, however, that it also applies to workers who are employed in companies established in any Member State and who drive with us, i.e. in Slovenia." I would like to stress further that, in the context of the proposal for a law on working time and compulsory rest for mobile workers and on recording equipment in road transport, we are faced with the harmonisation of the Slovenian acquis with the acquis of the European Community. However, this coordination is not as simple as it seems at first sight, as we are already encountering terminology problems in translating individual European directives. It's a complicated marriage. If we're just reading the law, maybe it's impenetrable. Therefore, in New Slovenia we estimate that it will be necessary to prepare appropriate manuals or an appropriate interpretation of the law in order to facilitate and correctly enforce this law. We don't think such devices would be controversial. The proposed law lays down for the implementation of Council Regulation No 3820/85 and for the implementation of Council Regulation No 3821/85 the competent authorities and their tasks, the holders of public powers, their powers and the manner in which those powers are conferred, the official records for implementation and penalties for offences which constitute infringements of those Regulations. At the same time, the law also transposes into the Slovenian legal order a Council Directive regulating the supervisory procedures for the implementation of those regulations and a Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council which deals in more detail with certain aspects of the working time of mobile workers. The law introduces a directive into Slovenia's legal order, which specifically regulates the working time of road transport workers, not just for transport companies. This, of course, is different from our labor law. So it's a special law in this sense. Moreover, most of the law provides for the establishment of competent authorities or holders of public authority to enforce certain provisions of the European Community. It must be said that the regulations themselves are very complex because they contain a basic text and a lot of changes, which reduces the transparency of the text. In New Slovenia we estimate that the law itself will have no other consequences. It is true, however, that the implementation of European Union rules on the working time of mobile workers and tachographs will impose certain obligations on carriers and drivers. These obligations have been imposed on analogue tachographs so far. The gradual introduction of digital tachographs will impose new obligations on vehicle equipment and record-keeping as well as on the equipment of card drivers. The adoption of this law is, in fact, our obligation to the European Union. In New Slovenia we estimate that the text of the bill is good, so we will also support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u111	Thank you. Once again, allow me to ask all Members and Members to stick exclusively to the content of the proposed amendment when dealing with an individual amendment, so we have written ourselves in the rules of the game called the Rules of Procedure. And I would like to take the floor with my colleague, Happy Hwauc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I will follow the recommendations and the business arrangements myself, and I will discuss the amendments to Article 2 and not some fees and the competitive capacity of our carriers and similar things. I agree with my colleague's conclusion that in individual parts this law as used by the term may be difficult to read. But this is not the result of the drafter of this law, but of the rest of the fact that we cannot regulate directives or regulations directly into our laws. This means that we can only refer to them and that is what is happening in this law. That's it. Secondly, as far as the law is concerned. I think it is the concern of my colleague Vebra that the law adopted in the Slovenian Parliament will be valid in other European countries, that, as he said, our legislation will be transposed into other countries, that this concern is essentially unnecessary and therefore we do not think that this amendment is necessary and will not be supported in the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u113	Thank you. Next on the list of applicants is a colleague of Černač. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u114	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I didn't mean to call. But given that some have also discussed Article 4 and so on, I think it is right to say something about it. I will not support the amendment to Article 2 because I do not see any need for it. On this occasion, however, since most other amendments also refer to this fact, which has been found to be bad, opaque, poorly written, and so on, the following would be said. We have several laws in our country that are so different and different. Anyone could find out if there's anything worse than this marriage. What is even worse, though, is that many are not doing as they were written, despite the good intentions of the one who received them at the time. I'll just give you one case. I think it's a maritime code. On the basis of the provisions of this code, I got permission to, I mean, 12 or 24 meters long boat to drive without seeing a boat or any other boat at all. And this is the matter of a very extensive code, written professionally and so on. I could probably count someone else. I said at the committee meeting that I find the text a little more difficult to understand also because sometimes we are masters in the invention of expression. In this case, when it comes to a rather direct transmission of texts, regulations and directives, somehow these texts do not lie in our ears. And instead of kindergartens, we had an educational protection organization, instead of prisons, a training center and so on. I think it's only right that we slowly get used to clearer dictions. I also think it's some kind of technical law. That is also why these amendments, which are in some ways editorial in nature, are not necessary, and I will not support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u115	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Comrade Webber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u116	Thank you. I would respond to the discussions concerning the amendment we have tabled. Mr Hvauc said that concern is too much to allow our legislation not to apply to others, i.e. in other European Union Member States. But still. If we read the text of this second paragraph correctly, this law applies to mobile workers employed in undertakings established in the Member States of the European Community. That's exactly what he's saying. Of course, it would be really appropriate for this legislation, when we transpose the regulations and when we try to comply with the directives, to make it very clear that it is mainly the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. Many of the provisions in this law are unnecessary precisely because the texts set out in the Directive are duplicated. The Directive already applies to all members - as we know it. This text is heavily burdened with texts that should not actually be written. We would have fewer problems if we then found out whether it was the territory of the Republic of Slovenia or whether it was all the Member States of the European Union. In short, to write into our national law that the law applies in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia seems to me to be much more prudent than to leave some incomprehensibility behind. Finally, Dr. Pirnat, as a colleague before me, also tried to explain the position of New Slovenia, warned that it was understandable. So he himself used a kind of dictatorship that suggests that it is really better to eliminate at least these very clear concepts of whether or not this is the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. And this article would be much, much clearer if this amendment were adopted. Unless it does, it really leaves a feeling that we are adopting legislation in the Slovenian Parliament for all the Member States of the European Union. It therefore seems to me that this article states that this law applies in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u117	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Since I don't see a desire for words, I'm closing the debate. However, I am putting to the debate Article 10 and the amendment of the Group of Members of the Social Democrats. To avoid a speech about the amendment, I will also read the amendment. The words "Member State" are replaced by the words "Republic of Slovenia". Would anyone like a word about the amendment to Article 10? Comrade Webber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u118	Well, in this article, when we talk about the introduction of digital tachographs. These tachographs are due to be introduced by 5 August of this year. What is very important is that in each Member State we also prepare ourselves to take over the European order in a way that we have trained institutions that will introduce mandatory digital tachographs. In fact, this includes the creation of national laws, the establishment of a reliable system for the issue of tachograph cards, the authorisation of workshops for the activation and calibration of digital tachograph devices and the readiness of offices to implement requirements. When I read the text of Article 10, I get the feeling that we do not yet have all these institutions in place in Slovenia. Therefore, in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia we cannot implement the provisions of the Regulation which speak of the approval of a type of tachograph being carried out in the territory of a Member State. Indeed, this article makes it very clear that it is being implemented in a Member State. So it lists all 25 members where this tachograph registration can be carried out. Here is a practical example where we extend the competence of Slovenian legislation to all the other 24 members of the European Union. If it was not necessary to record in Article 2 that the law was in force in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, it seems to me that this is absolutely necessary in Article 10. However, if the text remains the same as it is, and if I am right in that we do not yet have all the offices established in Slovenia and all the conditions for the authorisation of workshops and the calibration of digital tachograph devices, then we will send our carriers to countries where we could do so when this law is passed. According to the information I have, even in all the Member States of the European Union, these institutions have not yet been established. In approximately 12 Member States these institutions have not yet been established. So, where are we going to send our carriers to get approval from the type of tachograph in which country the European Union is based, once this law is in force? Therefore, there is also a lack of clarity in this article, so that the arguments that we are discussing whether or not the law is clear are particularly raised in this article. So we don't know which country is going to be able to do this service. We even know less if it can be implemented in Slovenia. All of this is a really big problem for our carriers to face. Given the fact that they point out the problem of the introduction of digital tachographs by other European Union countries as well - 12 are such as I have already said that they do not yet meet these conditions - it would be far more reasonable for Slovenia to join in the activities to postpone the date of 5 August for the introduction of the digital tachograph to a later date when all members could find that they could implement this Regulation in practice. By hastening the adoption of national legislation, just to summarize something, so let us summarise a concrete regulation that talks about it, but at the same time we do not have in the country where the conditions for implementing this Regulation are being tried, let us build too many problems on our backs, too many costs, too many difficulties on the part of carriers. And last but not least, a lot of time and energy will go to nothing when we try to implement this law. So I really don't think it's necessary to rush into this law. It would be more realistic to adopt amendments that would, of course, allow further clearance of this text, and not least to consider whether it is absolutely necessary to adopt this law at that time, which will not lead to clear criteria mainly among users. On all these issues in Article 10, I think it is essential that we write down that approval of the tachograph is possible to carry out the tachograph approval in the Republic of Slovenia, not in the Member States. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u119	Thank you, colleague Webber. My colleague, Srečko Hvauc, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Article 10 simply states that approval of a type of tachograph must be carried out in a Member State, that is, in any EU Member State, Slovenia or Slovenia, whatever. If the proposed amendment were accepted, this would simply mean that only the approval that was carried out in Slovenia is recognised in Slovenia. This means that, I do not know, we do not recognise the approval of tachographs to carriers coming from other countries and receiving approval from another country. I think this is not in line with European manners, and this will make it more difficult for us to find ourselves in Europe. At least after 1.5.2004 there were some new facts in Slovenia. Therefore, I think that such an amendment is simply not appropriate and could also be a problem for Slovenian carriers on the basis of some reciprocity. When someone goes to France, that means that with a tachograph approved in Slovenia, they simply cannot drive there. I don't think that's sustainable and it's inappropriate. That's why I won't support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u121	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? If not, I'll conclude the debate of Comrade Weber, please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u122	Thanks again for saying that. The rules for all EU members are the same for all countries. Even if you register a tachograph in the Republic of Slovenia, it applies in the other Member States. If you register it in another country, it also applies in Slovenia. This is already mentioned in the regulations and directives, so there is no doubt here. I am more concerned about this fact, which I have pointed out, whether in Slovenia we meet the conditions to register such a tachograph. This is the question that obviously we did not solve in Slovenia. That is why we are trying to write down a broader dictatorship and thereby make it more difficult for our carriers to operate because they cannot do this service in our area. This is the key issue that I would like to point out in this amendment that we are still far from being able to fully transfer the implementation of this law to the territory of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u123	Comrade Hwauc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u124	Thank you. Despite the concerns expressed, this Article is not the right place to address this potential problem. If this is the problem, then this could be resolved in another article, perhaps in future provisions or elsewhere, but I still do not think that this problem can be resolved through the proposed amendment. That's why I don't think the amendment is appropriate.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u125	Thank you. I hereby conclude the debate on Article 10 and the amendment of the Group of Members of the Social Democrats. However, I am putting to the debate Article 19 and the amendment of the Group of Members of the Social Democrats. Who wants a word? My friend Webber.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u126	Thank you for your word. We are still in the chapter on the supervision of workshops and all the procedures necessary for road traffic control to be carried out. This control also includes handing out cards. The problem arising from Article 19 in handing out cards is that a public authority is to grant to an institution that is to be selected for the production of these cards a directorate. I think it is a matter of dictatorship and the use of the term of public authority for the extremely important tasks that the state carries on to a particular company. It would be more appropriate to grant such an authorisation, if it was already necessary, by a decision taken after a public competition and in accordance with this law. However, the Directorate is only a body with a substantially lower weight and responsibility than only the Ministry and, in particular, a minister responsible for the entire area. As public powers are involved, it is far more appropriate to grant this authority to the Minister or the Ministry. The delegation of such powers to the Directive, in order to confer public powers on private companies that will succeed at a call for proposals, is a very big question. In addition, I am also asked whether it is necessary to grant any private company that otherwise succeeds through a public tender to obtain this service, a public authority. Is there not enough criteria in the tender documentation to be met by companies if they want to be involved in the production of cards to do so on the basis of the contract concluded? As such, public authority remains within the Ministry, or it is the responsibility of the Ministry. In my view, the content of Article 19 concerns too many powers for the Directorate to grant public powers. Even so, the very text of this law does not clear the need for this or determine whether it is absolutely necessary to grant public authority. This is, however, a broader issue that cannot be resolved only in Article 19. The amendment therefore refers to the fact that these public powers are conferred on the Minister by a decision and not by a directorate. This process and the process of distribution seem to me to be much more appropriate, more responsible and, finally, more transparent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u127	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I therefore conclude the debate on Article 19 and turn to the debate on Article 29 and the amendment of the Group of Members of the Social Democrats. Who wants a word? My friend Webber.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u128	In the text of the law itself, and also in Article 29, we do not see that the Ministry and thus the Minister should be directly able to exercise control over the legality and regularity of the exercise of the public card issuing authority, and also in the debate I had in the previous article, this control also applies. If the amendment to Article 19 is not accepted, however, it seems necessary for at least the minister to exercise control over the correct exercise of the public authority of the card issuer. Otherwise, this power was conferred on the Directorate, which also confers public authority. This means that, in fact, according to the current content of the law, the directorate who gives a public authority would also exercise control over the exercise of this power, which is not right. This can lead to the failure of this public authority to achieve the purpose and importance that it is supposed to have in its very concept. We therefore propose that the Minister exercise control over the exercise of the public authorisation to issue cards. This somehow keeps the hierarchy in our state order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u129	I conclude the debate on Article 29 with the debate of my colleague Vebra. However, I am putting to the debate Article 32 and the amendment of the Group of Members of the Social Democrats. Anybody want a word? My friend Webber.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u130	Maybe just for a little while. As a consequence, the amendment to Article 29 also requires the adoption of an amendment to Article 32, where, of course, we also place the Minister to exercise control under Article 29(1), so that this text refers to the text referred to in Article 29. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u131	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. In accordance with the timing of the meeting, we will decide on the amendments today in the framework of the half-hour vote after the end of the 17th item of the agenda or no later than 21.15 p.m. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to four. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Road Safety Act, Summary Procedure. In doing so, I remind you that a total time of 45 minutes is foreseen. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation. Minister of Transport, Mr. Christmas, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u132	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Say good-bye to everyone again! The transport sector depends largely on the road transport regime. The Road Safety Act defines the liability of drivers, legal persons and individual entrepreneurs for individual infringements. In practice, these penalties have proved to have a significant impact on the business of transport companies on the one hand, and on the other hand that individual liability for infringements is exclusive and not comparable to that of foreign companies on the other. First of all, these are amendments that focus primarily on the level of penalties, the liability of a legal person and tolerance in terms of reasonableness, the comparability of the level of penalties with other countries and the eligibility of liability of legal and natural persons. This took into account the relationship to the gravity of the offence and the comparability of the offences. Since two million penalties affect the existence of transport companies, amendments should be adopted as soon as possible. The second set of amendments is intended to regulate transport techniques where special circumstances arise where it is not possible to precisely determine the weight and where the possibilities for overweighting arise. For example, bulked loads where the weighing option is limited and the specific weight is different. It's, like, wet in the material and stuff. This situation does not have a significant impact on infrastructure in the light of technical progress, as the road construction is affected by dynamic loads resulting from the transport regime [[Time, condition of the vehicle, transport technique and the like]] which is governed by the implementing rules; they are also in preparation. A parallel change is also the regulation of the powers of the Ministry of the Environment to inspect end-of-life vehicles, since they have not so far had those powers, and this is important due to the rounding up of control over used vehicles. In the final part of the amendments, the conditions for the establishment of a public road safety agency should be regulated. Since financial, human resources and spatial conditions are not provided for, this establishment is therefore deferred to 2007. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u133	Thank you. The draft law was considered by the Transport Committee as the parent working body. I ask the chairman of the Committee, Franz Kangler, to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u134	Thank you for your word. At its sixth meeting, on 29.6.2005, the Committee of the National Transport Assembly held a second reading of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Road Safety Act submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly after a reduced procedure. The representative of the Legislative Service of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia pointed out that the provisions of the draft law from Articles 2 to 14 were mainly presented in the draft law of the proposed amendments and focused on the amount of fines prescribed for infringements of those provisions of the Road Safety Act relating to the conduct of road transport activities and were the result of the initiatives of road hauliers united in different interest associations. On the basis of these initiatives, according to the legislative service, the applicant estimated that, until now, fines for such offences had been excessively high and that the proposed amendments to the law had provided for their reduction. The following questions, comments, warnings or opinions were raised in the debate. The practice has shown that the prescribed penalties are too high and therefore threaten the competitiveness of the business of Slovenian transport companies. In the future, the level of penalties should also be adjusted for other road users. In the increased tolerance for loads and reactions above the limits prescribed, the increased burden of Slovenian roads reduces road safety. More attention should also be paid to environmental safety in terms of shifting road transport to Slovenian railways. After the discussion, the Transport Committee came to the vote on the amendment to Article 16 and the amendment was not adopted. As no amendment has been adopted to the draft law, the Transport Committee proposes to the national assembly of the Republic of Slovenia that the proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the road safety law be considered and adopted in a text such as the legislative procedure sent.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u135	Thank you, colleague Kangler. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Janko Weber, representative of the Social Democrats Group, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u136	Thank you for your word. One more nice hello to everyone. In the Group of Social Democrats, we welcome the solutions to the draft law on amendments and additions to the Road Safety Act, which are moving towards this end, so that the level of punishment of the responsible person and tolerance in terms of reasonableness, comparability in height with other countries, and the justification for the liability of legal persons and natural persons can indeed be brought to a level comparable to that of the other Member States of the European Union. Of course, the question is whether this law or whether this law will achieve this goal. Of course, if a reasonable limit of comparability is exceeded or overstepped, the consequences of implementing this law may be quite severe. Of course, it may be that there is no explanation in this law that other consequences cannot be expected. Since the lower penalty for professional drivers and carriers of companies is thus reduced by as much as 90% and we wonder whether, because of the requirements, the carriers they have reached on the basis of road closures may not be affected too much by this relief and whether this will not even lead to questions relating to the fact that carriers prefer to load more cargo than is permitted or allowed to carry road loads and thus infring on part of the legislation, while also causing many more problems related to safety at the same time. Therefore, too drastic a reduction in the penalty can be reflected mainly due to a reduction in road safety. Injury on the road is our daily daily burden. Despite the fact that we are lacking the means to maintain state and local roads, it would be very good to consider whether it is reasonable to really accept such reduced penalties without following the financial flows that provide more means to restore and repair vehicle injuries. Finally, there is also the possibility of unfair competition. In fact, companies will probably prefer to take the risk of paying some low penalty and imposing more burdens, and in particular this mechanism can be afforded by those companies, those companies that are more capital-intensive and will therefore come into a subordinate position. Businesses will be placed in a subordinate position, which, of course, will not have these options. In order to draw attention to this law, however, it may not have been used enough to analyse all these facts. In particular, they have prevented the introduction of this law and the reduction of penalties from showing any impact on the reduction of safety in transport and that there will be no more accidents, which are extremely painful and ultimately expensive. We want the roads to be more tidy and, if we are trying to cover up the additional burden in some way, we think that we should really provide more funds for this as soon as possible. However, unfair competition is certainly what we do not want to support in the Socialist Group of Members. We believe that more effort should also be made in this law to clear up all these issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u137	Thank you. Comrade Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u138	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected minister with co-workers! Dear colleagues and colleagues! In Novi Slovenija we estimate that the proposed amendments and additions to the road safety law are necessary and that the text of the bill is appropriate. These are amendments aimed primarily at the level of penalties, the liability of a legal person and tolerance in terms of reasonableness, comparability in height with other countries and the eligibility of liability of legal and natural persons. In practice, it has proved that disproportionately high penalties can have a significant impact on the business of transport companies on the one hand, and on the other hand that individual responsibilities for infringements are mutually exclusive. Otherwise, they're not comparable to other people. The fines of up to 2 million tolars interfere with the existence of Slovenian transport companies, so it is necessary to adopt the amendments as soon as possible. I would stress that Slovenian transport companies could not and could not recover the fines for foreign companies. The bill reduces the amount of fines associated with the burden and dimensions of the vehicle, by exceptional transport, by driving time, by rest time, by daily rest, by interruption of daily rest and by weekly rest, by 20% for drivers and by 90% for legal persons. The bill also reduces the fines associated with the prohibited award, the tachographs, the record sheet and the record card, with the transport of children, for drivers by 20% and for legal persons up to 90%, and for those responsible up to 50%. The law also includes provisions for a decree establishing a public road safety agency, as it is not possible to provide for financial, human resources and other conditions for its establishment and performance at the appropriate time. The establishment is postponed to 2007. The provisions of Article 140 of this Act, which refer to the driver of the beginner, shall apply after two years after the application of this Act. It is logical that the adoption of this law raises a question of financial implications. Because of the unknown future scope of fines, financial consequences cannot be defined. Given the known extent of infringements of road traffic regulations or the proportions of infringements committed by heavy-vehicle drivers, this is expected to have a minimal, so to speak, negligible, impact on budget revenues. As we say, in New Slovenia we will support the proposed amendments to the Road Traffic Safety Act. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u139	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Comrade Franz Kangler, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u140	Thank you for your word. Dear Members and Members. Also in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will support the proposed Road Traffic Safety Act. As all the interlocutors have so far found before me that there have actually been some proportions between civil rights and legal persons concerning the payment of penalties in such a far-reaching way that it was absolutely necessary for the government to submit to the National Assembly a proposal for a law that we now have on the agenda. Some penalties were so high in the past that they exceeded the basic resources of some private or business operators. It is true that the law interferes mainly with transport, passenger transport, freight transport, emergency transport, driving times, and we would also like to highlight and simultaneously call on the Government in the Slovenian People's Party's Group to prepare a change of law without delay in order to fully address the issue. After all, it is not just the motorists who are facing the problems today that they face with fines and fines. In this area, it could also be found that there are also schools and some other institutions involved in the education and training of future drivers or in any other way directly affecting or participating in transport, for which these fines have remained uniformly prescribed or excessively high and there are inconsistencies and imbalances between legal and civil law persons or users as regards the imposition of fines or penalties. In the parliamentary group, we will certainly support this proposal and welcome the fact that these penalties, which have directly endangered certain jobs, especially private people, individuals, are also being mitigated.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u141	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the position of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. My friend Zagorac.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u142	Thank you for your word, chairman. Your Honors are here! The law before us is one in a series of amendments to the Road Safety Act, which entered into force on 1.1.2005 and was drafted by the previous government under the then internal minister, Mr Bohince. Despite many criticisms and forecasts of amendments to this law, the then government insisted on the adoption of the law in the same form as it was later adopted. We have already called on the new government in the context of the first changes, it is said at the beginning of its mandate to prepare comprehensive changes and additions to the said matter, but the current government has decided to resolve the matter in a partial manner, in accordance with an agreement with the individual groups that the law is working on. The new Road Safety Act proposes a reduction in penalties for carriers and an increase in the permitted axle pressure, which means an increase in the permissible weight of the loaded load. Thus, for the autotransporters of the novel, it brings benefits, which we cannot say for all the affected ones that are being touched by the novel. The increase in axle pressure, in turn, gives the possibility that even heavier and more dangerous trucks will be rolling along state roads. This clearly poses a greater risk to the public living on these transit roads, a higher environmental content of harmful substances and, last but not least, a lower traffic flow. The fact is that state roads are the worst-maintained roads, because the state has some special roads to them, it could be called the stepmother's relationship. Most of the money is devoted to the construction of motorways, so the restoration of existing state roads is of secondary importance. Another worrying fact is that most of freight transit traffic takes place on state roads, since this avoids the payment of tolls. For a long time, it has been one of the most problematic roads towards Hungary. Local residents of the house are literally decomposed, mainly because of the tremors caused by heavy trucks, the environment in this area is more polluted by these heavy trucks than in other parts of Slovenia. At the same time, there are daily damage to roads requiring new financial resources from the State to repair them. It cannot be overlooked that the law is more than an obvious result of the RS government's compromise with a strong automotive lobby. To some extent, we could say that it is even a matter of buying peace and preventing any sentences that we have already received from motorists. We have already proposed several times in the Slovenian National Party, following the example of Austria and some other European countries, to adopt a law requiring the transport of heavy goods by rail for transit goods. The government has decided to continue to warm the lives of people along state roads, especially in the area of Prekmurje, Styria and Primorska, where the motorway regime has not yet been established. In the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, we are not convinced that this amendment of the law will contribute to greater road safety, which is the intent of the law. The consequences of the proposed solutions will undoubtedly be reduced road safety, higher environmental risks and reduced road traffic flows. In short, the proposed law brings us greater burdens of roads, higher costs of repairs, less money in the road budget and more traffic accidents with a fatal outcome. Such findings cannot be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u143	Thank you. Mr Rezman will give his position to the DeSUS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Let me first say that our Group of Members, namely DeSUS, will support this bill or amendment, which is proposed, because we consider this to be meaningful. Finally, it must be said that this is one of the few laws that the public knows about, because the public debate has been rather harsh, quite long, even grave, or at least decisive, so to speak. The requirements and rejections were approximately the same. What we think has not been a speech in this change is some sort of rigidity, which would also need to be eliminated in other areas, and might have been previously cleared proposals and earlier acceptable to all those who enter this change process. We are judged to be the following essential things in terms of change. Firstly, these incomparable penalties must be abolished in other countries of the European Union. We think it's really about, if we say something kinder, an unusually high punishment. We believe that the government and the ministry have found that we are not prepared to set up an agency, but we are not quite sure that this is a good thing to put off, because with possible greater effort and greater investment, the opportunistic costs, if we may say so, would be lower if we worked hard and this agency and the programmes that follow have been implemented earlier. When it comes to regulating the control of worn-out vehicles, this is one of the additional reasons why such changes should be supported. In the DeSUS Group, we estimate that the proposals make sense. That punishments are more lifelike, because sometimes they are even 20 times smaller. We assess and hope that the control of the disposal of used cars will indeed be better and that such violations will be significantly less. Other costs, then, when the country has different programmes to deal with these errors or the unjustifiedly put down cans, will hopefully be less. We estimate that this is not a abandonment of punishment, but rather a more moderate punishment, a greater proportionality of punishment and the offence committed, and we are particularly pleased if this really means a step towards protecting the environment more and that in this way the appearance of the environment in which the used car shells are placed will be slightly more beautiful. Our Group also believes that these are not the final solutions to which we should be landing, we know that it is not possible to save overnight road and road transport by rail and by investing more in the direction of rail traffic. That is why we will support this proposal in the hope that it means improving the situation on our roads, that it means ensuring security and that it means an agreement that will no longer threaten those who are directly engaged in and are living with road transport. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u145	Thank you. My colleague, Bojan Rugelj, will present the position of the Slovenian Democrats' Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u146	Thank you, Chairman. Nice greetings to all present, especially the representatives of the Ministry. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Road Traffic Safety Act also defines, inter alia, the criminal liability of drivers, legal persons and entrepreneurs, individuals for individual infringements. However, excessive penalties can have a significant impact on the business of transport companies, i.e. on competitiveness in the European market. These are amendments that focus mainly on the level of penalties, as the current multi-million-dollar penalties also affect and prevent the existence of transport companies and have nothing to do with reality. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has set up an inter-resort coordination working group to address the current problem of transport. This working group has drafted amendments based on the relationship to the gravity of the offence and the comparability of the offences. Representatives of road hauliers and drivers associated with different interest associations have proposed a reduction in the high fines for offences linked to road transport in the Road Safety Act. The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group supports them in these efforts, so the solutions to the proposed law on amendments and additions to the road safety law are both appropriate and necessary. Proposals for a reduction in fines are linked to Article 69 [[vehicle loads and dimensions]] , with Article 70 [[Emergency transport]] Article 73 [[driving time]] , with Article 74 [[rest]] , with Article 75 [[Daily rest]] , with Article 76 [[daily rest break]] , with Article 77 [[weekly rest]] Article 78 [[the prohibition of awarding]] Article 79 [[tachographs]] Article 80 [[record sheet and record card]] and Article 92 [[transport of children]] . The amount of the fine for companies, independent entrepreneurs of individuals and responsible persons has been prescribed primarily for the purpose of dissuading potential offenders from the service of offences which, in addition to the breach of road safety, also constitute infringements of the protection of competition and infringements related to the conditions of work of drivers engaged in road transport. The criminal provisions of the Road Transport Act and the Law on the Transport of Dangerous Goods have also been taken into account in the determination of sanctions. Subject to the criminal provisions of those provisions and to the coordination of proposals made by representatives of motorists and drivers, fines for violations of those Articles have been reduced accordingly to 10 times. We consider this to be positive, of course, because it also affects the competitiveness of our carriers. The financial consequences of the unknown future scope of punishment cannot be defined. The new law is expected to have a minimal impact on the revenue of the budget, as the proportion of these violations is also smaller and the proportion of infringements attributed to legal persons is particularly negligible. In practice, to this day, it has proved that abnormally high penalties have no other effect than overburdening the courts and the ill will of our citizens. In view of the above, the Slovenian Democratic Party Group fully supports the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Road Safety Act. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u147	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the position of the Member Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Comrade Milan Friday, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u148	Nice greeting, Minister! Presidents, colleagues and colleagues! The proposed law on amendments and additions to the Road Safety Act is another of the under-thinking and incomplete legislative changes proposed by the current government to the National Assembly. Members of the LDS Group have not tabled any amendments precisely for this lack of completeness, as amendments cannot be satisfactorily corrected. The government has agreed to comply with this group because of the pressure of a narrow part of road operators and users in the Republic of Slovenia and has forgotten that it will result in inequality in the market for these services and thereby affect those legal entities that carry out the same or similar activities. It will also cause widespread social damage through certain provisions of the law. We do not object to the law in the LDS because we believe that it would not be necessary to amend the law, but not so radical and drastic and such that it would cause great consequences in several of the areas listed below. Firstly, by virtue of the provision of Article 3, paragraph 1, which refers to the general three per cent tolerance of the total weight and axle loads, the current system of tolerances is being dismantled completely unnecessary. This will result in a higher burden on vehicles, resulting in higher costs for the state and the municipalities to maintain them. Under these conditions our roads will also be destroyed by foreign carriers, of course we will only bear the costs of Slovenian taxpayers. Tolerability and burdens will be exceeded due to tolerance, thereby reducing the level of safety of vehicles and those involved in transport and resulting in an increase in the number of accidents with the consequences to be paid by all citizens. Secondly, the proposal introduces a major discrepancy in criminal provisions between legal entities and independent entrepreneurs in the field of transport and other legal persons, independent entrepreneurs who provide similar or similar services. Thirdly, a drastic reduction of some fines for employers and their responsible persons will go into the area of social legislation that seeks to protect drivers, workers, from employers. Offences will be minor, pressure on drivers to break the rules, and thus even stronger. Of course, the failure to respect this legislation by the owner of the transport company to bring about a lower transport price, greater competitiveness and profits, which ultimately, due to the pressure and fatigue of the driver, is also a security problem with an increase in accidents, as often stated by the police, the driver suddenly turned left. Fourthly, as some domestic carriers will choose an inappropriately better status through these legislative amendments, foreign carriers will also take privileged status. Infringement of regulations with penalties, which are inadequately lower than in their home countries, will become an incentive to achieve greater profits and their greater competitiveness on our roads. Such a foreign company will be able to completely ignore the safety and social most sensitive transport rules to date. Fifthly, as regards the comparison of domestic penalties with foreigners, it is already apparent from the outset that this comparison is incomplete and flawed and does not correspond to real data. Also, unlike many good foreign practices, this offence law does not first sanction the responsible or legal person, and only after it proves that the driver is responsible for the offence does so. The penalties for motorists in many countries are also more fair, as penalties are set within the range according to the number of hours they exceed. Six, one last reason to reject this law. The proposed penalties also raise the question of the rationality and prudence of the implementation of infringement procedures, including the recovery of fines imposed on foreign carriers. The cost of these procedures will be higher than the fines imposed, which means that the country will have more costs than the benefits. The LDS Club opposes the proposal of the new law because it only brings or introduces a so-called paper death on our roads due to the extortion of capital. It increases the destruction of Slovenian roads, increases the cost of the country and municipalities for road maintenance. It introduces inequalities between motor vehicles and other companies, enables the exploitation and extortion of drivers, enables unfair foreign competition, reduces the effectiveness and usefulness of controlling and sanctioning foreign carriers on our roads. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u149	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles. That is why I am concluding the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. We will vote on the law in accordance with the timing of the session today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 17th item of the agenda or at the latest at 21.15 a.m. Are you still in this spot? Here you go, colleague Juban.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u150	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I have a procedural issue to avoid any complications that might arise later after the adoption of both laws that we have now considered. If you are looking at the transitional provisions and the entry into force of the law, the previous Act on Working Time and Compulsory Rest of Mobile Workers, on which we will vote today and will enter into force on the 15th day following the publication of the Official Journal. This law, in its provisions in Article 45, repeals most of the articles we are adopting in this law, which we are now talking about. It's not my invention, because the law department warned me about it, and Dr. Pirnat winked with his shoulder, so he didn't know exactly how to solve it. Will we repeal the provisions of this law, which will no longer be in force, by these provisions in the previous Law on Working Time? As this law shall enter into force the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal. If the Official Gazette is issued on 1 August, mobile workers will be subject to the Road Safety Act on 14 August and on 15 August, and on 2 August, and the previous Act will repeal the provisions in 14 days from the date of entry into force of this Safety Act on 2 August. Now the question is whether it will repeal provisions that will no longer exist, or whether these provisions, which we are now talking about, will only apply for 14 days. The second thing I said is that it's also supposed to be a piece of legislation so that it can happen. What kind of marriage will they now enter into? Or the old one, the old one, or the new one? There may be a complication that we will have one confusion, which can manifest itself once later in the lawsuits that would have occurred at that time because of the high penalties and lawsuits.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u151	Comrade Juban, this time I let you spend too much time raising an interesting question. We will ask the legislative and legal service for further explanations or an answer to your question, and I believe that we will be able to reach the bottom of the dilemmas in the context of the votes we are about to make today on both laws. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to five. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Political Parties Act, Summary Procedure. The total time of the debate is 31 minutes. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation. Representative of the government, Minister of Defence Dragutin Mate, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u152	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I guess I'm still a little confused with the Ministry of Defence, but I'm the Minister of the Interior. I would like to present the amendment to the law we have proposed. The proposed amendment is another in a series of amendments to laws that we need to comply with the law on offences. We are turning monetary penalties into fines, as envisaged. At the same time, we also lay down, in accordance with the law on offences, who controls and implements the provisions of the law as a criminal body. In doing so, we set up a Ministry of Finance for a specific part and an Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Home Affairs. The following two Articles of the Law, paragraphs 30 and 31, are deleted. The reasons for deleting these two articles are, however, coordination with other laws. First, it complies with the value added tax law because the sanctions are described in this law and no longer need to be described in the Political Parties Act. At the same time, it is in line with the Act on Offences, which also provides for sanctions which have been provided for so far under Article 31 of the Political Parties Act. In addition, there are still minor changes in the law. One of the changes is the communication of the party's headquarters, where we define this by not having to report the customer's address, but only the place by which we allow political parties to be less uncomfortable with the minor changes in the location from one street to another. At the same time, we extend the deadline for sending an annual report on the business of the parties to the National Assembly and to the Court of Auditors so that the parties have sufficient time to prepare the correct reports. At the same time, we extend the deadline for the publication of the summary annual report in the Official Journal. There are other reconciliations in the marriage. In particular, due to the amendment of the Government Act and the Law on State Administration, it was essential to harmonise the dictions or responsibilities between the Ministry of Public Administration and the Ministry of the Interior. Since the register of political parties is maintained and the Ministry of the Interior has carried out the registration, we have been designated the competent Ministry of the Interior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u153	Thank you, Minister. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as the parent working body. Please, Chairman of the Committee, Mojca Kucler Dolinar to present the report.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Have a nice hello to you all. At its 9th regular session, the Committee of the National Assembly for Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice considered the draft law amending and supplementing the law on political parties as its parent working body. The College of the President of the National Assembly decided at its 23rd regular meeting that the proposal should be dealt with in a simplified manner. In its supplementary explanation, the representative presented the main solutions to the draft law. In particular, the enforcement of the offence law, which imposes fines instead of fines, requires amending the provisions of the law which lay down penalties for offences. However, in order to comply with certain other laws, it was also necessary to submit and propose amendments to the law. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service presented the comments made by the Office in its written opinion and stressed that the applicant had also taken all their comments into account and made proposals for amendments to the Committee. There was no debate on the articles of law and amendments on the committee, so we only adopted the amendments of the committee and finally voted on all the articles of the law together and adopted them.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u155	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The first position will be given by Mojca Kucler Dolinar on behalf of the Nova Slovenija Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u156	The New Slovenia Group supports the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on political parties, which on the one hand means harmonisation due to certain amended other laws, namely the Act on Offences, the Law on Government and also the Law on State Administration. On the other hand, it also provides an extension of certain deadlines for the submission of reports. The proposed amendments therefore introduce fines instead of fines. However, the political parties are included in the administrative and internal affairs of the Ministry of the Interior. It must also be important for political parties to extend the deadline for submitting the annual transaction report to the Court of Auditors, which has been extended from 28.2. to 31.3. if we adopt the law today. This also means a meaningful alignment with the obligation of other legal persons to submit their business reports within three months of the end of the business year. In addition, with a proposal for one month, that is to say 30.4., the deadline for the submission of a report on the operations of the parties to the National Assembly is also extended. In the New Slovenia Group, we are convinced that respect for the law will not distort the deletion of the provisions of article 31 of the law, which provides that the parties to certain offences in addition to a financial penalty shall also withdraw the funds which are the subject of the offence. The Offences Act already provides in one of its provisions for the identification and confiscation of the property benefits achieved by an offence under an official obligation. Therefore, the provision of Article 31 is no longer necessary. In the case of New Slovenia, we will support the proposal of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u157	Thank you. Mr Bogdan Barovic will give the position of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u158	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues! Mr. Secretary! In the Slovenian National Party, we are in favour of a bill amending and supplementing the law on political parties, because in our view it is a real example of why and how these laws should be adopted in a reduced procedure. We have already and will hear that this change is actually due to changes in some other laws, which in fact brings about the harmonisation of the law on offences, where fines are imposed instead of penalties. It also provides for an appropriate delimitation of the powers of the Ministry of Interior and Public Administration. The change in the deadlines given has, however, raised an issue for the legislative and legal service, which I am sure will be resolved by the amendment. It is also taken into account in the amendments that the supervisory authority appoints the Ministry of the Interior. In particular, it is important for the Slovenian National Party to delete a criminal penalty against a legal person or private person who provides a service to a party without having to issue an account or to contribute to a party an amount exceeding a certain amount. The reason is clear and clear, transparent, because it is the party itself who is obliged to record all contributions. At the same time, it is estimated that there will be no financial implications for the proposed law on changes and additions to the law on political parties. We estimate that it is right to support this proposal of the law together and thus make it more transparent to operate and harmonise certain laws that are sometimes so intertwined and interconnected that one actually pays the other, at least in this case it will not.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u159	Thank you. We are moving on to a presentation on the position of the DeSUS Group. Comrade Willy Rezman, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u160	Thanks again for saying that. Let me say in the introduction that, while we will support this proposal on amendments to the law on political parties, we have at least two concerns that are worth mentioning. At first glance, it is a change that is purely routine or even a routine process. But if we get a little closer to doing this, we find that this is actually some change in the law, which could also be called one of the missed opportunities. This opportunity is supposed to mean that the power and pervasiveness of the parties in our space could be relativised. It seems that it is indisputable that the parties have already occupied all the seasons of this social life, and that there is no longer much possibility for a different operation, at least as regards those interests which are later implemented through politics and through the national assembly into real life. Rotinski is the part that deals with the coordination with the law on offences or with the law on government or with the law on state administration, as well as with the implementation of the directive concerning the rights of citizens of other European Union countries. However, immediately with the first sentence in the introduction, which is not the law itself, we meet with a thought that I will read, but with which we cannot fully agree, which illustrates one of our concerns. It reads: "The integration of citizens and citizens, which enables the achievement of the political objectives set in the programmes through the formation of the political will of voters and voters and through participation in the elections, is governed by the law on political parties." That's true, but that's not all true. The second part of the truth here turned out that this law does not regulate all political interests and all possible ways, but does not govern those who are not political parties, but are political entities. It is those who act as independent candidates or as independent independent, non-political, non-partisan lists. This is what may have been delayed, but since we are going to talk about it again today in the law on local elections, maybe this is just a warning. Please note that the customer system is actually trying to get everyone out of this social space and that it is a matter of favouring customers. It also states that it identifies only one part of the political entities that function in reality both in the municipal councils and in the national assembly. Although we support this law, we have another thought or wonder whether it is best to delete the 30th article of the existing law, which in fact withdraws sanctions for acts that were previously illegal. We do not see the legal reason why this article must be deleted, why this sanction must be withdrawn. Otherwise, this bill will be supported by the parliamentary group and hopes that we will soon have the opportunity to talk about the necessary additional changes as regards our political space.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u161	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles. That is why I am concluding the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. We will vote on the law in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the half-hour vote after the end of the 17th item of the agenda or no later than 21.15 p.m. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to six. At the end of the day, that is to say the bill on amendments and additions to the law on explosives after a reduced procedure. The total time foreseen for the debate is 41 minutes. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to a government representative for further explanation. Dragotine Mate, Minister of the Interior, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u162	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Members and Members. This is a law that is also due to the amendment of this law, the law on offences, where we have to turn the fines into fines, while at the same time defining in more detail in this law two criminal bodies. Since we have two criminal authorities by law: the police and the inspectorate, as a body within the Ministry, and because we have occasionally come to some ambiguity in the past or in the current application, we have further demarcated the real competence of both criminal authorities, regarding the decision in the criminal procedure, so that these problems that we have encountered in the past do not arise. At the same time, there are some minor substantive changes in the law, which are the result of perceptions in practice. In practice, there was no obligation to publish the list of explosives. And so citizens could not be taught in a public way, as is most appropriate, which types of explosives are those which can be used for certain purposes, as provided for by law, we have decided to define this area in the law, so that the list must be published in the Official Journal and that, of course, all citizens can have free access to these lists and that they can work in accordance with the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u163	Thank you. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as the parent working body. I ask the chairman of the committee, Mojco Kucler Dolinar, to present the report of the committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u164	Thank you very much. At its 9th regular session, the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice also considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Explosives Act. In his supplementary explanation, the representative stressed, among others, that the aim of the bill is also to ensure the effective action of officials against offenders at the crime scene. The bill therefore introduces, inter alia, a special mandate whereby a police officer, without prior decision at the scene of the offence, may also confiscate explosives and the subject matter of the offence. On the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the Ministry of the Interior has also drawn up proposals for amendments and invited the Committee to adopt them as amendments to the Committee. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service stressed that the service had made comments in its written opinion. As has already been said, the applicant has taken note of the comments when preparing the amendments proposed to the Committee for admission. Members and members of the Committee have devoted the most time and time to the most debates to the proposal for an amendment to the Committee tabled by Mr Marko Pavlich, which would limit the sale of explosives or pyrotechnics for a short period of time, as provided for by the law in force. On this issue, we have also received the initiative of the Department of Health of Murska Sobota, in which the co-signatory of this initiative draws attention to the negative consequences of the use of pyrotechnics and, in so doing, propose that the sale of pyrotechnic articles, classes one and two, be limited to the time when their use is allowed, i.e. from 26 December to 2 January. The members of the committee followed the initiative and adopted the amendment with which we restricted the sale, from 19 December to 31 December. In this regard, we have generally felt that even more restrictive restrictions on sales would not be welcome and would not contribute to the treatment and resolution of problems in this area mainly because it would still be possible to purchase pyrotechnic products in neighbouring countries that do not have such strict restrictions. The representative of the proposer also considered that a complete ban on sales would not be appropriate, otherwise he left the decision to the members of the committee. Thus, the Committee adopted its amendments and, at the end of the vote, voted on all the articles of the bill together and also adopted them.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u165	Thank you. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. I give the floor to my colleague, Mr Jelinčič, to present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u166	Thank you very much, Mr President, and thank you very much for all of this. The law that we have before us is actually a cosmetic correction of a very, very bad law, which will necessarily need to be re-adopted as soon as possible and separate the pyrotechnics from explosives. The undeniable fact is that apples and pears are mixed here and that this existing law is a display of the ignorance of matter by those who have drafted the law. After all, in the same law we treat pyrotechnics under point one, including table pyrotechnics used on wedding cakes, as well as explosives of all possible degrees and types. After all, it must be realized that a strong explosive is also any nitrate artificial fertiliser if it is mixed with oil in the correct ratio. This law does not define it, and those who have written the law certainly do not even know it. Above all, this law amending the law has made a lot of sense. The Department of Health has demanded a total ban on the sale of pyrotechnic articles, which is a great nonsense and has already been in force in the former Yugoslavia. Nor does the proposer himself realize that this would mean the opening of a large black market, which would bring large amounts of financial resources to traders in particular, but would not settle any issue. It is also a matter of complete ignorance of matter, for pyrotechnic means, both one and two, do not cause those terrible accidents or consequences that we see on television. But if someone opens up ten pyrotechnics and shakes them into a bottle of coca-cole, it certainly causes serious damage. However, this is something else, and this is something that both the amendment's proposer and the healthcare agency are unaware of, because they show their total ignorance and ignorance of matters. The constitutionality of this article is also questionable here, as we know that Orthodox people in Slovenia celebrate Christmas on 7 January and the new year on 13 January. Here they are prohibited from celebrating their holidays, which means that we can also expect a constitutional complaint, which is of course legitimate and not only legitimate, must also be accepted, because by the Constitution all religions in Slovenia are the same. I would say once again that accidents are not caused by firecrackers and pyrotechnics, but by the abuse of pyrotechnics. Above all, because children are told to do so in schools, you should not use it instead of explaining to them and showing them what can happen if you misapply with such a matter. After all, those who have proposed this article should be aware that pyrotechnics also include ordinary lighters. Now I do not know whether the sale of lighters, except from 19 December to 31 December, will also be prohibited and sanctioned in a manner such as the amendment to Article 48, which states that the sale of pyrotechnic articles contrary to Article 36, paragraph 1, and paragraph 4, of this Act is punishable by fine, I believe that there are between 100 and 500,000 tolars. That's what they say. We can close all the hits and stuff that sell lighters. It is also evident that those who have proposed this do not know that pyrotechnic articles are divided into different groups, that certain groups are class one, class two and so on. However, I am sure that only a few of the Members here know. In view of how the law was drawn up, I would even say that those who prepared it at the Ministry of the Interior do not know the difference between one group of pyrotechnic means. The amendment adopted by the Committee to Article 2 is a complete nonsense and will not contribute to anything other than the enrichment of trade in pyrotechnic means. I've already told you everything else. This law, or law amending the law, is nothing more than a fine correction and coordination with those articles required by the Law on Offences and will not bring anything else. There's a law to be written. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u167	Thank you. Following is a presentation of the position of the DeSUS Group of Members. Comrade Ivan Yelen, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u168	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Ambassadors and Members, Mr. Secretary! I give the opinion of the DeSUS Group on the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Explosives Act. In the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we believe that the proposal for a law drawn up by the mother's working body and the government is appropriate, so let us support it as such. As such, its improvement is seen mainly in the amendment, which deals with the tightening of this proposed law from the previous authorised use and purchase of pyrotechnics from 1 December to 31 December on the date now mentioned from 19 December to 31 December. We believe that taking these provisions into account, the law would reduce accidents that are very numerous during the new year. We believe that this time the opposition, as a coalition, has collided species and adopted amendments to the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice and at the same time a member of the National Assembly of Prof. Pavliha, who is talking about creative cooperation in preventing the harm of young people, especially children during the New Year. In the amendment, it is a stepping-up measure to complement security on the restriction of the purchase and use of pyrotechnic articles in the Republic of Slovenia. To date, it has been noted that the supervision of the competent authorities over the implementation of this law is not effective enough to devote far too little attention to this issue. The amendment will ensure more effective action for the future, prevention of accessibility, improved control of the use of pyrotechnics from abroad as well. The amendments will lay down such penalties as will contribute to the reduction of offences, particularly around the new year. Young people, especially children, will need to instill a proper attitude towards explosive means at home in parental education, in school through appropriate subjects, perhaps physics with occasional visits to police in school institutions, when presenting injuries by health personnel and other appropriate forms in public education, via television and radio. Through inspection services, it will be necessary to check more consistently where they lead the purchase routes, whether traders have the knowledge of sales, whether the space, the store is appropriate, whether there are heating bodies nearby. We personally believe that to this day this has been done more domestically, always in confidence, because nothing will happen. Today is the time for a patient and prudent agreement, to prevent irregularities and shortcomings in the area that our society embraces just the explosives law that we today see as a complement. At the same time, we are pleased at the initiatives that speak about the support of this law by the Department of Health of Murska Sobota, a representative of the legislative and legal service, who supports the adoption of a bill amending and supplementing the law on explosives. In the DeSUS Group, we are convinced that, at the moment, there is a possibility to limit the use and purchase of explosives in the proposed procedure and its temporary improvement. From the confirmation of the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice, there is good intentions and uniform support for the improvement of this law. We support the bill by including amendments, which were also supported by the committee, as also presented to us by the Committee president or today's rapporteur, Mojca Kucler Dolinar. We believe that the proposal is qualitative and well-intentioned and will contribute to greater security and respect for pyrotechnic means at a given time. Members of the DeSUS will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u169	Thank you. Following is a presentation of the position of the SDS Group of Members. Rudolf Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u170	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary, Your Honor! The basic law we are amending today was adopted in 2002 and has complied with European directives. Here I would mention in particular the Directive on the harmonisation of decisions concerning the placing of explosives on the market and their control. It should be noted, however, that after this deadline, a revised law on offences has been enacted in Slovenia, which introduces fines instead of fines and therefore requires the harmonisation of the law on explosives. This is not the only reason for the amendment of the law. I would like to point out, on behalf of the Group of Members, that later on the adoption of the Act on Offences, there is a need for rules establishing offences which do not comply with the newly prepared laws to regulate them within three years of the implementation of the Act on Offences. This change, which we are now talking about, is also regulated. At the same time, supplementing the law also provides a basis for inspection of the implementation of the Explosives Act. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we hope that control, with the newly defined function of inspector, will also be effective as set out in the introduction to this Act. It's not enough, if it's just written down, it's also necessary to show up in the field like this. This amendment also resolves the ambiguity or weakness of the applicable law on the so-called list of explosives, which is a condition that explosives may be used or may be used or placed on the market, whatever we call it, but has not been determined how this list is made available to the public. The amendment clearly provides that the list shall be published in the Official Journal, which shall ensure that the list is made public clearly and specifically. As expected, the main debate was Article 2 of the amendment, which relates to Article 36 of the Act, which deals with the restriction on the use of pyrotechnic means, which we have already heard today. The resistance to the use of these pyrotechnic means is generally known, especially at the end of the year at New Year's celebrations. Indigestion over-use of products whose main effect is pok is also in our customer SDS. However, we are aware that Slovenia is not a lonely island, that it would not be possible to influence from the outside and that restrictions on traffic in certain products can also be regulated by law. The fact is that after 1 May 2004 Slovenia became a member of the European Union, the borders are loosening and the free movement of goods is becoming a fact. Therefore, restricting the sale of pyrotechnic assets means more than Sisyphus's work and does not solve the main problem, vice versa. No restriction or prohibition has ever produced fruit before, it has increased interest. The basic problem is probably in our heads or, if we want it or not, in the education and values of society. This is a long-term process, but it is the only one that is effective. Restricting the sale of pyrotechnics within the period from 19 to 31 December of the year will certainly accelerate the purchase of this material abroad in the case of potential users. However, in our SDS party, we welcome the power to allow police officers to seize such items without prior decision at the scene of the offence. And given our common desire to limit the prospecting or use of pyrotechnic means at events, we will support this law in the SDS in the proposed form, with amendments adopted by the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u171	Thank you. Here comes the presentation of the position of the Member Club of Liberal Democracy. Comrade Dr. Mark Pavlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u172	Thank you very much, Comrade Vice President, for your word. In the Liberal Democracy Club, we will support the change, although we are aware that it is only one stone in the mosaic of general prevention and action against any misuse of pyrotechnic means or explosives and also to prevent serious accidents. Such a measure will not quickly bring us laurels by many of our children who want to joyfully break at various holidays and similar events. It would probably be enough for one picture of an accident in the media to say no more participating in such a tragic event, losing a finger, hand, or worse to change our minds. This also points to what has been said many times today. In fact, any prohibition, any prohibition simply isn't enough. We can see this in the field of alcohol, cigarettes, drugs, explosives, and we could list them. In whole or in part, I agree with my colleague, Mr Yelinčič Trimeniti, who says that a new regulation must be drawn up that does not mix pears and apples, but will define different explosive bodies differently. However, this law will, among other things, increase control and shorten the use of pyrotechnics for 19 days. Please, if this isn't one pebble in the mosaic, then of course I'm not saying anything. Progress is usually achieved by small steps. Many steps then contribute to a faster path to the goal. We are pleased that the parent committee and obviously also fellow Members have taken our initiative, based on the initiative of the Murska Sobota Institute of Health, which reduces the use of these pyrotechnic means, since such sales of explosive or pyrotechnic means, limited for a short time as provided for by the law in force, are one great achievement and will certainly reduce the number of victims or injuries. We'll see about that next year. But the fact is, education begins at home, so that parents can use their own example to show their children how we feel about it. For example, I have never used firecrackers myself, and they will not be used faster than my children will, and then this will go on, to kindergartens, to schools and to any other institutions that play an important role in this. Our message is, let's support the proposal, because it means better than nothing, let's advocate a better regulation, and at the same time consider the possibilities for general resistance, if I may say so, to do so, and a clear, preventive action towards our children, to avoid the use of resources that often lead only to tragedy, but not just to entertainment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u173	Thank you. Here comes the presentation of the European Social Democrats Club. Comrade Run, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u174	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The proposer only wanted to ensure that his criminal provisions were in line with the offence law, with amendments and additions to the Explosives Act. The prescribed fines should be converted into fines and the necessary harmonisation of the level of these penalties should be carried out, criminal bodies should be established and other similar formalities should be carried out. It is only for this reason that the law would be an entirely routine matter, as we have changed and supplemented a number of laws for the same reasons, and unfortunately we will. However, the debate on the law, on a proposal and under the amendments of Members, raised another important substantive issue. This is a question of the use and time limit of the sale of pyrotechnics. There are many different views and suggestions on this issue in the public, ranging from the requirements for a complete ban on sales and use to the various types of restrictions that would significantly reduce their use, restricting their unfriendly behaviour towards people and animals, in particular preventing or at least limiting the possibility of injuries that unfortunately occur in children each year. Members and Members of the Social Democrats are also aware of the contradiction between the regulation of this issue. In principle, we know that in history and even today, complete prohibition has generally not yielded great results, vice versa, most often even the opposite of the desired. Most of the time, it only resulted in an increase in illicit trade or activity, which did not contribute to the elimination of social evil, which may have been its purpose. We are aware that, at the open borders and possible practice of pyrotechnic means in our neighborhood, the sale ban is only a virtual solution. The full ban on use, if it were to be effective, would require such an extent of involvement by the police and other state authorities in order to ensure that, with only a partial success, the activity is in a large imbalance with the weight and consequences of inappropriate behaviour. Therefore, Members and Members of the Social Democrats today, as the most realistic one, support the proposal agreed on by the labour force in order to reduce the time allowed to sell these assets from one month to the end of December 1st, from 19 December to 31 December of each year, due to the possible impact on the use of pyrotechnic resources around the new year. Otherwise, we believe that public prevention, family and school education and consistent punishment of illicit use should also contribute to reducing the use of unorganized pyrotechnic means and limiting and sanctioning the use in places and in a manner not permitted by law. We also believe that the competent authorities should continue to examine the issue of the possible limitation and direction of the use of pyrotechnics and, if necessary, propose social activities as well as legislative solutions that would best address this issue. For once, therefore, in our view, it is right to support the proposed amendment and to fully support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u175	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the position of the New Slovenia Group. Comrade Anton Kokalj, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u176	Your Honor! I will give some facts to support our Group's proposal for a law. The law harmonises the provisions of the Explosives Act, the Offences Act, by defining the fine as a fine and defining the criminal authorities, namely the police, the inspection body of the Ministry under which they inspected the implementation of the provisions of this Act. They're staff with special powers. The aim of the law is also to ensure effective action against the offender at the crime scene. The law introduces a special mandate whereby a police officer, without a prior decision, may immediately seize the subject matter of the offence on the spot. The law provides that explosives may be placed on the market or used only if they comply with those conditions in the law and are included in the list of explosives published in the Official Journal. The proposal also restricts the sale of pyrotechnic articles for a short period of time, as provided for by the law in force, and we believe that the period from 19 to 31 December is still acceptable. In view of the fact that a new directive is being prepared within the EU on this issue and that the proposal is in fact only a correction to comply with other legislation and to secure the use of pyrotechnic means, the New Slovenia Group will support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u177	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled in the amended draft law, there is no possibility to discuss the articles, so I conclude the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. We will vote on the law in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the half-hour vote after the end of the 17th item of the agenda or no later than 21.15 p.m. With this, I also interrupt this agenda item. We're moving to seven. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - DEFINITIVELY PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE LOCAL VOYMENTS LOCAL INSTRUMENT. The expected time of the joint debate is 3 hours and 20 minutes. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I welcome the representatives of the government and give the floor to the Minister without a department responsible for local self-government and regional policy, Dr Ivan Žagar.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u178	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on local elections introduces two important amendments. The first is that it guarantees electoral rights for all EU citizens in local elections. In accordance with Council of Europe documents on the participation of foreigners in public life at local level in 1992, Slovenia recognised the voting rights of foreigners at local level in 2002. In the framework of the EU negotiating bases for the area of free movement of persons, the Republic of Slovenia has also committed itself to regulating the conditions for the exercise of electoral rights and the right to run for local elections for citizens of the Union residing in a Member State, but they are not its citizens. EU citizens will thus be entitled to run for office or to be loved, passive electoral rights, in the municipal councils, while, until now, they have only been elected by an active electoral right. However, the law does not allow them to be elected mayor. Other foreigners residing in the Republic of Slovenia are still considered to be eligible only for election by members of the municipal council and mayors, but cannot be loved. Another time. The law promotes equal opportunities for candidates and candidates to run for local elections. The main objective of the amendment of the Local Elections Act is to ensure gender equality in political participation at local level. Applicants for candidate lists in local elections will have to take into account the legal requirement for equal representation of both sexes on the candidate lists, at least 40% of each gender, and in the first half of the candidate list will have to be replaced. The law also regulates a transitional solution for the first regular local elections in 2006 and the following year 2010, i.e. applicants will have to provide 20% and 30% of each gender candidate, and candidates will have to be distributed alternately by sex on the first half of the candidate list. Such a solution was adopted by the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development during the transitional period, and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia supported it and incorporated it into the amended draft law. We do not support the amendment of the Social Democrats' parliamentary group, which contains a different transitional solution for the first regular local elections, since the proposed Article 4 allows for a more gradual and longer period of time to prepare all possible candidates for the inclusion of women in politics. The Government is also proposing an amendment to the amendment of the LDS Group to Article 4 of the Act, which follows the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service on the dispute between paragraphs 3 and 4. At the same time, the applicant shall insist on maintaining the agreed dynamic of the application of this Article. I propose that the National Assembly adopt an updated proposal for a law with the amendments mentioned above. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u179	Thank you. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development as the parent working body. I ask the Chairman of the Committee, Paul Rupar, to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u180	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. At the 4th meeting of June this year, the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development considered the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Elections submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption. The President of the National Assembly had previously sent the draft law to the municipalities and the Commission on Petitions and Human Rights and Equal Opportunities also gave an opinion on the draft law as an interested working body. The opinion was also given by the State Council. The Committee also took note of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which warned, inter alia, that there was a lack of definition or finalisation of the legislative regime for the restriction of voting rights, as indicated by the Constitutional Court, and that consideration should be given to possible solutions in cases where the municipality was divided into several constituencies in which only one candidate could be elected or actually appointed, in the event that the candidates were designated by a political party; that the transitional arrangements in the amendment of the law were applied to the first elections following its entry into force. It also drew attention to the unequal distribution of candidates of one or the other sex by constituency, when a condition of 25% representation is met, and it identifies at the level of a municipality with several constituencies, since the legislative measures should be such as to promote equal opportunities for candidates in all individual constituencies. In the second reading of the proposal for a law on the treatment of individual articles and amendments, the Committee followed the purpose of amending and supplementing the law, which is mainly in the implementation of the two directives of the European Union, which requires the EU Member States to ensure active and passive electoral rights in local elections for citizens and citizens of the European Union who are resident in a Member State and to comply with the amendment of Article 43 of the Constitution, by which Slovenia, last year, in accordance with European legislation and documents, established a constitutional basis for the establishment of measures to promote equal opportunities for men and women to run for elections to local authorities. Following the examination of the individual articles, the majority of the proposed solutions in the law were supported by the Committee. It was pointed out that this is a new law that will have a positive impact on the exercise of equal opportunities between men and women, both in the run-up phase and in the election phase. The Committee also took account of most of the comments made by the legislative and legal services. With regard to the proposal for the completion of the legislative regulation of that electoral right in Article 1, he considered that this issue did not need to be further divided in the direction indicated by the Constitutional Court in the provision, since the Constitutional Court recommended it to the legislator as an option and not an obligation. With regard to the proposed solution in Article 4 of the bill providing for a balanced participation of men and women in the candidature procedure, the Committee decided, by adopting its amendment to Article 4, for one term of office, to postpone the application of Article 70a for a longer period of time and to introduce a criterion of 40% of cities. The type of municipalities, in particular those with a traditional environment, has drawn the attention of the government to its specificity and to the legitimate question of how it can satisfy the provisions of the law because it is difficult for them to encourage or obtain women for candidacy in the municipal councils. The proposed legal criterion could, in their view, even prevent the election of representatives of local communities to individual municipal councils. The amended bill now stipulates that for the first local elections, political parties or voters must set up candidates or candidate lists in such a way that at least 20% of the cities, the next 30% and the last regular elections 40% of the cities will be provided for each of the two genders. With regard to the Government's proposal to supplement Article 4 of the draft law with new paragraphs, which would provide that candidates for members of the municipal council in a particular constituency may be appointed by regulation by a group of electors, provided that at least 4% of the eligible voters resident in the constituency are provided, the opinion is that they should support the position of the legislative and legal service and therefore take account of their opinion. We propose to the National Assembly to support the proposed solutions and the proposal for a law amending the legislative and legal service proposal mentioned above. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u181	Thank you. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Bogdan Barovic will introduce us to the position of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u182	Thank you very much, Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister, employees, governments. In short and in the first sentence, this amended proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Elections would therefore be justified in the first part by Article 1 and should also be adopted in short procedure, since when Slovenia enters the European Union, the Treaty of Maastricht provides for the right to vote for foreigners, EU citizens who have permanent residence in the country of the Republic of Slovenia. The State of the Republic of Slovenia, as a member of the EU, must, of course, define the Maastricht Treaty and also designate the European Union as an integral part of it to respect and respect. From here on out, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government, if you don't believe me, read the opinion of the legal and legislative service, the story for the Slovenian National Party is over. From here on out, the law should not be amended or adopted. If you do not believe it, once again, the legislative and legal service has given two opinions in which it clearly recalls the creation of a legal void due to the deletion of Article 54, which replaces Article 4. Still, the legal void has come to an end. The Legislative and Legal Service speaks and warns that if I continue to go to Article 4, the so-called percentage of the so-called 4% of the electorate's signatures that have permanent residence in the constituency to determine the candidate can be constitutionally disputed because of or in violation of the principle of general electoral law. The legislative and legal service also clearly and loudly warns in its first opinion, which was written on 13 June, which speaks of the progressive application of this law, namely the work on quotas. Thus, Article 4 states: "This regime, although transitional, does not follow the content and purpose of the provision of Article 43, paragraph 4, of the Constitution, which provides the power to lay down measures to promote equal opportunities for men and women to run for office." So it clearly states that it does not follow the content and purpose and can be constitutionally controversial. I don't know why we have legal experts and a legislative and legal service that we don't listen to, which reminds us of constitutional dispute. Take a look at her latest opinion from 4.7 and read the constitutional opinion already given in some other countries and also in us. If you don't believe this, we won't accept such a law, at least we won't, because such a law is contrary to the Constitution and contrary to a lot of it, which highlights the legal service that we believe in last in the Slovenian National Party. I do not understand how we can adopt and enact such a law, even after such a procedure. And not least, respected colleagues and colleagues, when I quickly read the amendments, the ones we've already received, and of course the ones we've got on the table, we can put them in for a while, and we can now discuss whether it's going to be 20%, whether it's going to be 30, or it's going to be 40, or it's going to be 50, or it's going to be 60, or it's going to be 70. After all, a Member of the National Assembly can come up with a percentage. And I'm going to say something else: If someone, at the will of an individual or an individual, fails to comply with a certain quota law, he can't go to the polls. He can't. Easy. Someone should have, I'll say, eight candidates, should have three, only two. If it's in the law that it has to be 3, it can't go to the elections, it can't go to the local authorities, it can't go to state power. Actually, they're related. Has anyone thought about that? And last but not least, ladies and gentlemen! If you want, and if it is time, I will make another amendment where I will also require age limits for these quotas: at least 20% of men or women and at least 25% of those over 40 years and under 35 years of age. Let's go. And finally, ladies and gentlemen! The law will not increase women's quotas if we talk about them. We will increase it with politics, with our relationship and with our work. Never with a marriage!
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u183	Mr. Barovich, finish up. Thank you. Following is a presentation of the position of the DeSUS Group of Members. My friend Willy Rezman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u184	In our Group of Members, we are convinced that the law is necessary and that we must adopt it, but we will see later with what amendments to the proposal that was prepared on the Committee. Otherwise, we believe that we can push our assessment aside in this way, saying that it is actually a small number of articles of great importance. We believe that this great importance has been determined by how to ensure greater participation of women in the elections and also their selectivity. Not only should they run in an appropriate number, but they should also be given the opportunity to classify by chain system that they are also actually elected and not only to improve the leaves on which men dominate. This is supported by all of us, even though we feel that maybe the number that we have recorded for the first next elections is a little too low and so far we have managed more than this lower limit. Even though we are convinced that this law must be supported, there is a great deal of fear. We've been able to figure that out in a variety of performances. Some would still like to expel women from municipal councils, some would still talk about weaknesses in this way, if there were not enough women who could run, who would be willing to run and who would also succeed in the elections. When they don't even know it's a weakness, they don't apologize. Weaknesses need to be eliminated, not apologized to. If I say a little wickedly, I have also read and heard certain performances, which are like those which are written on a sheet of paper: Women, and others, are forbidden to enter into the congregation world. Some spoke to women, later there would be some marginal or other groups, and in the end there would be only one more in the congregational councils, as well as elsewhere. The argument against being chained and against being a higher percentage is totally unacceptable to us. But what's worst is the stroke or coup that happened on the committee for local self-government and regional development, both in terms of content, where some tried to squeeze out again, and on the business side. Somewhere it was like this in terms of: "we do what they can do to us. Even if we make mistakes, because we are strong enough and man enough to protect these mistakes with power." This was not possible with arguments and with regulation, and this was also discussed by a colleague who spoke before me and spoke twice about the warnings of the legislative and legal service. Let me mention that in the negotiations before, the service that proposed this law had also pointed out that it was perfectly clear to her why it was going, but it was still trying to force it further. For us it is an unacceptable threshold of 4%, because this means that customers everywhere would grow up like some kind of metastasis and we know what metastases are and what is the result of metastases. Under such conditions, there would be very little possibility, except in smaller congregations or where such an individual independent list is highly respected, to be placed in the municipal councils. Even though people support it. This is supported by the fact that 30% of mayors have been elected as independent in recent elections. And so many people had to go to the polls, and that's their will. 15% were independent papers that were voted, which have their representatives in Slovenian municipal councils and are also followed by the will of citizens and citizens, electors and voters, which have reached, I think, the second highest level among all the lists that have run for office, including the parties. That is why we will do our utmost not to support these stigmatizations, to make sure that women get an equal place, and we will do our utmost to ensure that non-party candidates and lists have equal opportunities in the organisational sense as well as in the organizational sense [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u185	Comrade Rezman, please, if you finish.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u186	eligibility for material and financial support for work. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u187	Following is a presentation by the SDS Group of Members, colleague Jožef Ficko.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u188	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on local elections, which we are considering following a reduced procedure, introduces innovations in three segments. Citizens of the European Union, who are not Slovenian citizens, who are permanent citizens in Slovenia, are guaranteed an active election right in elections to municipal and municipal councils and also a passive election right, which is the right to be loved. This is the internal regulation of the members of the European Union covered by the Directive on the basis of the Treaty of Rome, which is binding for Slovenia as a member and a signatory to the Treaty. The second amendment is to promote equal opportunities for candidates and candidates in local elections. In doing so, promotion procedures are also expected to achieve effective greater representation of women in decision-making bodies at local level. The inclusion or representation of women in decision-making functions or decision-making bodies as a problem is faced by countries that already consider themselves democratic, but find that one of the conditions for democracy is also equal representation of both sexes in decision-making. The bill comes from 40% of the gender representation as the ultimate goal. It introduces procedures to promote equal representation in municipal councils by providing candidates where possible. This is possible in proportional elections where political parties or groups of voters propose candidate lists. On the lists, the law ensures the representation of both sexes. The additional promotion is the alternating classification of both genders candidates in the first half of the list, i.e. in elective cities. In part, it may devalue the effects of the so-called retention of the exercise of preferential votes which may enable the selection of the candidate from any place on the list, but may benefit the candidates of both genders. Data on the representation of both sexes in previous local elections, when there were no candidates on many candidate lists and on average 21.2% of women on average, suggested that there was a need for a certain degree of progress in the introduction of legislation. It is necessary to take into account the fact that political activity in rural areas is much smaller than activities in larger urban centres and that it is sometimes very difficult for political parties to fill out candidate lists with male candidates. They'll find it even harder to provide candidates. It's also relatively beneficial. The experience with elections to the European Parliament, where political parties have identified candidates at the state level, is not comparable to local elections. The proposed percentage does not prevent a greater proportion of candidates on candidate lists in the electoral units or in political parties because they want or can do so. In the SDS, we believe that, above all, graduality will allow for the positive effects that are expected after the law is enforced. On the contrary, over-ambitious introduction of the law could lead to even negative effects. The third amendment touches on the determination of the conditions for the application by a group of voters. Absolute number 15 and 30 of the voter's signatures are replaced by a relative threshold of 4% of the electorate's signatures in the constituency. This change dictates the state of operation of some municipalities where a large number of so-called independent members of municipal councils elected by a large number of lists tend to make the implementation of local policy more difficult by defending very narrow interests. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we are confident that, despite current business reservations, this change will have to be implemented as soon as possible. We have also heard from the government that it accepts the definition of this provision in the bill. Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group will vote in accordance with the position presented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u189	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the position of the Member Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. A colleague of the Flowers of Zalokar Orazem, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u190	Dear colleagues, Mr. Secretary! When the amendment of the Constitution in 2004 introduced provisions allowing specific legislative measures to promote equal opportunities for both sexes to run, the positive effects of this solution were demonstrated by the elections of Members and Members to the European Parliament, since three Members were elected. The quota system, as we call it unpopularly, has produced a result, and I am sure that all the electorates and voters are pleased with the work of our MEPs. Therefore, the expectation of amendments to the law governing local elections was also high. Indeed, the government has originally come up with a bold proposal that would certainly contribute to rapid and substantial changes in the representation of women in politics. Data and statistics show the catastrophic representation of women in politics at the local level. Only 13% of women were elected in municipal and city councils in 2002. There are no municipal councillors in more than 30 congregations. In Slovenia, there are only 11 mayors in 193 municipalities. It is worrisome that this number from the election does not increase, even stagnation is present. It was therefore necessary to act. We have also been involved in criticisms and calls from the European Union. The initial government proposal, which, while presupposeing gradualness, in the first elections, 25% representation, later 40%, was good, reasonable and, of course, also required the commitment and serious work of political parties in the enforcement of women in politics. Unfortunately, the parties to the government coalition got scared and the proposal was revised. Thus, in the first elections, only 20% of women's representation on candidate lists should be required. In fact, this is a lower threshold than was already reached in Slovenia in the last elections, with an average of 21.2% of women in the 2002 elections. At the same time, the arguments put forward by members of the coalition at a meeting of the Committee on this reformed solution were very unconvincing, when women would have to be forced into politics, should be more inexperienced, should have a resistance to politics, other interests, particularly in the field of family, household, care for men and the like. In particular, the problem is expected to be large in small villages with a traditional environment, as has been said, and the emergence of which will be further encouraged by the amendment of the Local Self-Government Act tomorrow. But no one talked about the silent discrimination, no one talked about the suffering that men are more skilled, the closed paths and the obstructed careers, the rudeness of women in politics, including in this room of the National Assembly, the unplanned media representation of politicians, which is essential for success. No one has thought about the deeper reasons for women's poor representation in politics and the necessity to open up space and the opportunities to run for quality moves and advantages that bring more even representation. That is why we have drafted an amendment in the LDS that re-laws 25% representation and in the next elections 35%. But we welcome the clamp system. With subsequent changes in the law, the coalition also wanted to make a very important change, predicting 4% of voter signatures for independent lists, which would practically mean the abolition of independent papers, since this threshold is so large that it is virtually unattainable. Obviously, however, they recognized the legal and commercial contention of this decision and today an amendment was tabled to delete the matter. It is true, however, that a government representative has already announced at a committee meeting that this matter will be attempted with subsequent amendments to the law, which means that they still believe that this is necessary. The coalition, however, clearly expresses with such solutions the purpose of different leaves at local level, which, in my opinion, bring a lot of new and different into political space, are undesirable and should in fact be abolished. But people support them, people want such political papers, because they believe that political parties, who would act exclusively at local level, are ineffective in many cases, and too much party discipline is present. We will not support such solutions in the LDS Parliamentary Club in law.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u191	Thank you. The Member of the Parliament shall have the floor to present the position of the Member. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u192	I'm publicly protesting this kind of address. I'm Maja Potter's sous-chef.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u193	Excuse me. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u194	And it says so on my behalf as well. [[...]] I have a name and something else. Dear Mr. Minister, representatives of the government, distinguished colleague and colleague! The proposer predicts two objectives, namely, to regulate the conditions for the exercise of electoral rights and the right to run for local elections for citizens of the Union who are permanent residents in Slovenia, but not its nationals, and secondly, to promote equal opportunities for candidates and candidates to run for local elections. We support both objectives in the Social Democrats Group of Members and consider them to be a continuation of the adoption of the European acquis in the first case. The adoption of measures to balance the participation of men and women in decision-making processes as a condition for democracy and as a logical continuation of what we have confirmed with great agreement when adopting constitutional changes in the previous mandate. This is then in addition to the law on elections of Members from the Republic of Slovenia to the European Parliament, the second law, which specifies the adopted amendment of Article 43 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. It is therefore somewhat surprising that some of the proposed positive measures to increase women's candidateship, as this is the case and the Constitution expressly allows them, are nevertheless considered unconstitutional. At first glance, the very promising expectations resulting from this very short marriage are undermined by two facts. If the initial transitional provision, which for the local elections forecasted a 25% representation of women on the candidate lists next year, was still acceptable due to the principle of the rate of achievement of 40% of the quota and, as a result, minor non-compliances with those environments, which are more difficult to deal with with with and consequently also for participation in public decision-making, the initial approval has waned. The reduction of the quota to 20% is below the percentage achieved in the 2002 elections, that is 21.2%, the reference to warnings from local communities slightly fades, as only two written opinions arrived at the prescribed time, one of which supports and the other opposes, I suppose, quotas. However, it is crucial for the Social Democrats that a certain clamp is in the first half of the candidate list. But that's where it seems to start for some of the problems. There is a likelihood that more women will be elected on more successful lists than ever before, although there is still a chance that the preferred voice will not make a difference. In some environments, women's mistrust in their ability and willingness to participate in decision-making on public matters is still very much rooted. We have set ourselves a parity democracy as a goal, so we have drawn up an amendment that brings back the original text of Article 4 of the Law, just the first paragraph of course. However, another fact that is unacceptable to the Social Democrats is the unannounced provision between the objectives, which limits the possibilities for the nomination of non-participating papers and has been adopted by the Committee on Local Self-Government, although the opposition objected because it has not overheared the warnings of the legislative and legal service. It has not happened for the first time that most of the warnings have been overheared, so in the Group of Social Democrats, we note that in the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, it is possible to read the amended bill, I am literally stating: "We are, therefore, warning that they constitute the provisions of the new, third and fourth paragraphs of the Law on Local Elections, Article 4 after their content and the interrelationship of the proceedings in the essence of the provisions of paragraph 132 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on the admissibility of amendments only to the articles of amendments and the completion of the bill, and they also create a legal void which is not filled in a legally correct manner. When limited to 4% [[End warning sign]] For non-participating lists, the legislative and legal service also drew attention to the constitutional aspect. And that is what the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service refers to, not what is also stated in Article 2. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u195	Mag. Maja Potrat, finish up, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u196	and sets the quota at 40%. [[...]] The legislative and legal services did not comment on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u197	We continue with the presentations on the views of the groups of Members. The presentation of New Slovenia's position is next. My friend Martin Mikolitch, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u198	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In the Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenija, the Christian-Human Party, we will support the proposed amendments and amendments to the law on local elections. The amendments in Article 1 relate to coordination with the European Directive, which defines electoral rights for citizens of the European Union in local elections. This Directive provides that any citizen of the Union who resides in a Member State does not have the right to vote and be loved in a municipal election under the same conditions as a national of that State. A very important change in the law concerns the gradual introduction of gender balance in local elections. In doing so, the current government wants to implement the requirements of a series of documents adopted within the Council of Europe as well as the Committee of Ministers of the Member States of the Council of Europe and other directives. These documents state, among other things, that the participation of women and men in decision-making procedures for democracy is balanced. To this end, it is recommended that Member States adopt a comprehensive and understandable strategy to promote the participation of women and men in decision-making processes and that appropriate legislative and administrative measures be put in place to achieve this objective. As is known, some members have introduced these measures, but not many of them are better known for taking informal measures in their programmes or statutes to ensure the representation of both sexes on the candidate lists. In the Nova Slovenija Group, we support the government proposal that each of the two sexes belongs to at least 20% of the first regular elections, at least 30% of the next regular elections and 40% of the candidates or places on the candidate list. We believe that the proposal for a ceiling of 20% proposed by the Government for the first regular elections is entirely justified, given that in recent regular elections there were about so many candidates on the lists and that only 13% were elected. A few more than 30 congregations do not have a councilwoman. There were also a number of municipalities in recent elections that did not have any candidates for the municipal council. These are the facts that dictate the necessary formal measures, while at the same time pointing to the need to be careful when setting the ceiling at the start, especially realistic, because we are likely to be clear to all of us, both men and women - and this is our reality today - that it is very difficult in individual municipalities or environments to obtain women for candidates in the municipal world. The question of how to satisfy the provisions of the law is rightly raised. We must therefore be aware that the increase in the threshold for the first elections in these areas could have certain irreparable consequences for the continued existence and functioning of certain political parties and thus the functioning of democracy. It must be true, or it may be true, that the law will not interest women represented for politics, but politics itself. At all, we probably are not aware of the importance of the proposal for a built-in fastener system, which for a number of candidates means not only cooperation, but also election to the municipal council. Dear Slovenians, in the New Slovenia Group - The Christian-Human Party, because of your unique and unique mission you have, will always strive to make your own decisions as good mothers, women, capable students, workers and managers as you will participate in political decision-making either at the local or national level. In the Nova Slovenija Group, we support the government's proposal for independent papers with the required 4% limit of the constituency signatures collected in the individual electoral unit for candidates in the municipal council. According to an assessment of the government service, we have substantially too many independent lists in Slovenian municipalities. It is true, however, that these independent leaves have brought certain prophecies to the environment, but unfortunately too many times in the context of contradictions, in order that if I fail to do something in my place, neither will my opponent. As we know, independent leaves bring in a number of environments some difficulties in concluding a coalition. That is why we also support the Government's proposal. As I have already mentioned, in the New Slovenia Group we support amendments and additions to the law on local elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u199	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group. My friend Michael Prevc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u200	Thank you very much for your words, Mr President, distinguished Minister, co-workers, distinguished colleagues and fellow Members! Although the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on local elections brings minor changes, it is very important. I can say that this is a courageous law because it is intended to have a positive impact on the exercise of equal opportunities between men and women on the candidate lists for elections to the municipal councils. The amendment of the Law on Local Elections is mainly necessary to harmonise the amendment of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, by which Slovenia has provided specific legal measures to promote equal opportunities for both sexes, including in the election run. The proposed solution provides that the balance is given when the individual sex in the individual body is represented by 40%, with candidates and candidates on the first half of the candidate list being distributed alternately by sex, following the so-called system of restraint. The fact that in Slovenia there are more than 30 municipalities with no municipal council, that several municipalities in the last local elections to the municipal council had no women's representatives, and the information that only 13% of women were elected in the last local elections to the municipal council, which is one of the worst percentages in the European Union countries, lie that the proposed changes are definitely on the ground. Or the bill will be more interesting for women to enter politics, but it is already another issue. It certainly gives and requires political parties to invest significantly more energy in the design of such candidate lists, taking into account gender balance during the transitional period. Of course, there is a legitimate question in individual municipalities about how to satisfy the provisions of the new law proposal in particular in municipalities with a traditional environment where it is difficult to obtain women for candidates in the municipal council, so the government proposes a step-by-step approach in order to ensure the full application of this law over the next 10 years. The amendment of the law also requires a directive of the European Union which lays down the right of citizens and citizens of the European Union to have an active and passive right in local elections. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on local elections certainly includes this directive. Members of the Slovenian People's Party will certainly support the bill, but of course we will also actively participate in the debate on amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u201	Thank you. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and amendments tabled, which I will lead on the basis of the amendment review of 12.7. I am putting to the debate Article 4 and the amendments to Article 4, namely the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group of Members, the amendment to the amendment of the Liberal Democracy Group of Members, by the proponents, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and the amendment of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. Who wants a word? Ambassador Maja Potrat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u202	The Social Democrats' Group is proposing an amendment to Article 4, which introduces the original text of this transitional provision. Although we have experience with quota compliance in the Social Democrats party, there is no need for us to lower 40% of the quota to 25%, but we attach it to those who do not have such experience that it may be good to start local elections at 25%. However, we believe that 25% cannot be lowered simply because this would be lower than the percentage already achieved in the 2002 local elections. Let us let this average percentage be reached at the expense of those parties and those letters where the percentage was higher, but this is not an unattainable threshold, but it is true that the advantage of this marriage proposal is not affected by this because it does not undermine this principle. For it preserves the principle of fasteners in the first half of the law. What would indicate particular emphasis on this amendment has invited Members of Parliament and Members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to support this amendment. On the Committee on Petitions and Human Rights and Equal Opportunities, the text of the Act was thus unanimously supported. I have a magnetogram here if anyone doesn't believe it. The original text, not subsequent percentage reduction, was unanimously supported. What happened to the two members and members of the Commission that they felt differently is a matter of coalition coordination. Nevertheless, now is the opportunity to change the formula and return what the proposalr originally meant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u203	Thank you. Next up is a colleague of Stana Pike's. We proceed, Mr Milan Petek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u204	Thank you, Chairman for your word. I am alone among those who believe that the ruling coalition did not need to take a step back and reduce and slow down the application of 40% of women's participation in the run. When I listened to the explanations of members of the coalition at the local self-government and regional development committee myself, it became clear to me that the internal structure of membership, the degree of development of democratic dialogue, did not allow for the implementation of such a bold initiative as was originally proposed for us. On my own, on the committee, I illustrated the situation in the world group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia in the urban world of the Municipality of Maribor, which has a total of 11 saints of 5 women, but not because of the quota as an obligation, but because of the conscious application of the policy on gender equality, which is already clear to us in LDS. These same Members of the parties who once insisted on setting up small municipalities, even more radically on the proposal for a new law on local self-government, which we will deal with tomorrow, have found at this same meeting of the Committee that it is still difficult for men to stand up for candidatures in smaller municipalities, let alone women. Those are Mr. Fick's words. Why, then, do they persist in these small congregations if neither men nor women want to run? To make the continuation even worse, they should remain only in this own wise decision as to what they have done by demanding the establishment of new small congregations. Ambassador Ficko makes another astonishing statement at this meeting. I quote him: "But only the fact that in such municipalities, not to say so, would force women into a list that would eventually be elected and then politically for that party on the basis of lack of experience would be counterproductive, so to speak, then the final effect of this law could be worse for the future." Those are Mr. Fick's words. Such abjectity explains the problems they have in these parties with regard to women, not only those who are supposed to work in politics, but women, at least to my understanding in general. Dear colleagues, I hope at least your colleagues don't think so. It's time you learned the wrong thing and changed your mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u205	Thank you. Comrade Ficko, I ask you, do you have a replica? Here you go. Peace in the hall, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u206	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Of course, I was quoted by a respected fellow Member, but he made some adjustments to the statement that the newspapers had taken. They took it from the context. But I did say that, and I'm going to justify why I thought that. First of all, small congregations. Mr Petek, your client was ruling, she probably designed this policy of establishing small or large congregations, and I am surprised that in adopting this law they are doing so. I don't think you've made contact, I say, with the periphery. I don't think all your members are thinking the way you're talking right now. No one prevents you from running for as many women as you can, but for God's sake, we do not prevent small municipalities from forming ballots, candidate lists so that people can run for elections. I doubt that all of you in your committees around small congregations have felt this change. With regard to the statement Mr. Friday quoted. We can say that we give 80% at the next election an opportunity for women. We could say that. Of course, we can make it legal and it will apply. If we say so, we'll pass such a law. Or 50% to make it sound better. But what does that accomplish? In some areas we even boycott elections because it is easy for women to follow politics to say it - it is not necessary for them to go to the party - it is simply not. And if we pick women after the alphabet, put them on the list, I am sure they will also be elected, because the voters decide, but with their work, when they have no experience in some policy, even at the local level, they will be able to act in such a way that it will be counterproductive, that then the voters will think, "Yes, what I have elected now," and at the next election, then a different decision can be made in these elections. And it's not counterproductive just for that political party that's going to make a list like this, it's counterproductive for you, too, women who work successfully in politics, and it'll, I don't know, have a negative taste in getting women into politics that have no experience. And it will ultimately be counterproductive for this law that we now adopt. That is why there has to be a certain degree of graduality here so that the effects will build on each other and then the final effect can be such that we will have, I will be happy if that is the year 2014, that we will indeed have 40% representation of women. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u207	Thank you. Mr Barovic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u208	Thank you very much. I'll stick to the rules of procedure. We are talking, of course, about the amendment and the subsequent amendments. We will not support any amendment and not Article 70a in the Slovenian National Party. Why? I hereby substantiate this by a literal reference to the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of 13 June. [[Quote]] : "It is legally and in fact a postponement of the application of the new 70th Article, for which no substantive reasons can be found in the proposed law. In this respect, we note," says the legislature in its opinion, "that the provision of the second paragraph allows for a very uneven distribution of candidates of one or the other sex by election unit when the fulfilment of the condition is 25% in the case of representation finds at the level of the municipality which has several constituencies [[If we take, for example, a municipality with four constituencies, this quota can be met already in one constituency]] ".." Essentially: "This regime, although transitional, does not follow the content and purpose of the provision of Article 43, paragraph 4, of the Constitution, which gives the power to provide for measures to promote equal opportunities for men and women to run." For me, as well as for my colleague and colleagues in the Slovenian National Party, this is a credible legal opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service. If this is not clear enough, then I don't know what it will be like - for those who, of course, can't read it or didn't have time to read it.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u209	Thank you, Mr. Barovich. Mrs. Cvetka Zalokar Orazem has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u210	Thank you so much for saying that. The LDS Club has also tabled an amendment that recognises the difficulties in promoting women's representation on candidate lists at local level. That is why we ourselves agree to a gradual approach. However, we are not landing, and we are surprised to see that in the first subsequent elections to be held in 2006, we agree that we will actually legalise a smaller percentage than we had in the previous elections on average in Slovenia on the candidate lists. Once again, we have already achieved 21.6% representation of women on the candidate lists, which then brought 13% of women. It is true that this will be improved, this must be recognised, and the law has positive effects due to the introduction of the anchor. The zipper is likely to increase this number 13% even with 20% representation, but this is certainly not an ambitious proposal, it is not a bold proposal. This is a proposal that shows that we are actually afraid and will reach 40% in Slovenia, respected colleagues and colleagues, in 2014 - up to 40%! I think it's kind of hard to listen to a statement he's saying, but let's legislate 50% of women's representation to make it sound better. What's better? This would be a nice fact, not a few words, it would be normal for a democratic society to participate equally, equally, in terms of the number of women involved in politics in society. And it's not a nice sound, it's a goal, an opening of a political space that we should follow in order to come to that fact gradually. Today, it has also been said repeatedly that this has been a problem for the congregations in traditional environments. I have to say that the congregations have no problems. The problems have been faced by political parties operating at the local level who have not done anything in this area for years and years, even this time it has not just come about, but it has been necessary to legislate a constitutional change that has allowed positive discrimination, which has been machinely and commendable in the last term with the majority of votes in Parliament. Finally, this also results in the number of Members we have in the European Parliament and I think they show something completely positive. And Slovenian voters and voters are not ashamed that these three MEPs have been elected to the European Parliament, but they certainly do not show what has been said several times today that in fact they could say that women are somewhat less aware in the political field, that they are less qualified, was said on the committee and that somehow they might even act counterproductively in these municipal councils and people will be disappointed when they see how women cannot work. Colleagues and colleagues of intelligence and stupidity are very evenly distributed, and in my 12-year political work, I have already found this, so it is not good that they would somehow feel that there may be more in one sex, I think that science has proven this long ago and that our Parliament will not change that too. In this way, I think it would be an ambitious style, for which political parties have more than a year of time, even in traditional environments, to go ambitiously with 25%, and finally in traditional environments there are quite a lot of women, on average just as many as in urban environments, probably not only in rural areas and a larger number of men. There is something else I would like to say about the arguments of the legislative service. The legislative service did not object to the introduction of quotas with a single sentence and did not challenge them. This is not the truth today that somehow wishes to be presented in this space. The legislature had some comments on the confusion and confusion in municipalities where there were several constituencies and where there were only three candidates on the list. But these amendments have been accepted by the committee, things have been corrected, and they are perfectly correct, adequate, legal and there are no disputes. However, the Legislature pointed out the business disputed determination of 4%, the deletion of Article 54 of the Law, which had not been opened. And it looks today, which is why I have already said in my presentation of the position of the Club of Members that I see that the amendment to the amendment has actually been fixed by the government and is no longer in the proposal. However, the fact is that a government representative on the committee has argued that if this does not work this time, the autumn coalition will bring a new solution in due course, which will be commercially correct and will introduce the same 4% threshold for independent lists, which we oppose in our House of Representatives. Because we think that these leaves kind of reflect the mistrust shown by people at local level to political parties. They have received exceptional support and are, in a sense, actually slapping political parties who have apparently proved to be in the sense of electives and voters in a way that is not effective enough and people have seen some possibility, some confidence in independent lists. And these independent lists, which have shown to political parties a mirror, are not appropriate because they simply delete, delete and set a threshold that would even mean that they must choose a larger number of signatures to run for election. We are also reminded of this by the legislative and legal service, and this may even be legally disputed because in some way the general electoral right and the right to run would be hampered. We will not support these solutions and in this direction, let us say in advance, in our party, because we believe that these leaves are valuable, especially at the local level, we do not need to be afraid of them, they are very positive in local areas. But if they are, and if they are, inadequate, if they don't read the papers, if they don't work well enough, I'm sure that in 2006 the voters will be betraying them from the political space. However, it is certainly not good for local authorities to legislate in such a way that they are unable to run, so that they can act in municipal and municipal councils exclusively as representatives of political parties. I do not think that this is a good solution for the future of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u211	Thank you, Mrs. Zalokarev. Mr Minister [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] It's your turn. A government representative may contact you at any time.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u212	Thank you for your word. I would like very briefly to highlight two, three things about what was in the debate. Despite more ambitious forecasts, these proposals, which are now proposed, are a realistic proposal for all solutions. As you have already rightly stated, the government is also proposing the lifting of that work, so that this issue relating to Article 4, which is actually coming from the ground, remains open. I'd like to touch the numbers in a special way. As far as numbers are concerned, the fact that this average of 21.2% was created in a swollen state, but this means that in some municipalities it is not necessarily that there was any representative of the opposite sex on the list, because, of course, it can be the other way around; it is not necessarily just men's leaves, but it can also be women's leaves. Of course, this gives us at least 20% in each congregation, which means that in any case, the average calculated on the basis of this result is significantly higher, and in this sense, of course, much progress has been made in our assessment. It is true, however, that there have been many responses from the field, from individual municipalities, and that we have listened, of course, and we agree with this solution, which has been proposed by law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u213	Thank you, Minister. I will read the list of people who have been reported that you will know in advance - Mr Terčon, Jerovšek, Žnidaršič, Rezman, Kontič, Štebe, Kokalj, Janc, Pecan, Mikolič and Potrata. Unless you wanted a replica now, but you weren't named. Mr. Tarchoon, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u214	Thank you, Mr. President. So, this quote about numbers, I'd say, is a little weird, even a little bit distasteful. After all, the government would rather answer us, the opposition Members, why 20% instead of 25% - better to tell its MPs why 20% instead of 25%, because the government's first position was 25%. Now, it's only one time interval. So, I continue to agree that any provision or 20% or 25%, which ultimately leads to 40% and, subject to the provision that the first part of the list is altered, progress. Of course, I agree that we would be ambitious to show that we are serious about the change and if we already had almost 22% on women's candidate lists, why don't we just get 25% now, because at the final stage we will all agree, we will get 40%. But now it's pointless to believe that we found some oil here and that I'm left with 25% of you at 20%, even though 14 days ago you were all at 25%. This seems irrelevant to me here, because it is mainly a matter of some hygiene and some ambition and some seriousness to this proposal. I certainly think it would be good to start with the 25 with the original government proposal, not our amendment - or this is our amendment. Now the second question that I would devote a little more time to is the famous 4% for running solo papers. Now, I don't know what will be voted out, but we have an amendment to the committee, now we have an amendment - I know there is no more -, LDS that abolishes it, and we have an amendment of the government that abolishes it, even though they lower the percentage to 20% instead of 25% in the first phase, as we said. And we have a forecast that this possibility of amending the law will be reopened in autumn, as we have heard. Now, first of all, I think it's hygienic for democracy in some local environment, that citizens' initiative with some normal acceptable threshold is also possible, that they can run, and when we're at 4%, if the government or the ruling coalition will deal with this issue in the future, which is still open at the end of the day, until the amendments are put to the vote, to have a real picture in front of them. I would like to compare this issue with the question of the preferential vote we have in law. If you remember when, in the previous term, we adopted provisions allowing for the election or election by preferential vote, many have announced - also known experts in electoral systems - that these preferred votes will not make them saints in local communities. I then said, depending on the congregation to the congregation. And today we have a situation where we have quite a number of saints elected by preferential votes. But where are these saints? These saints are in smaller congregations because they can be done there, but they are not in larger congregations. And I say that if we review that there are no more than 10,000, 15,000 people in municipalities, this is a very common occurrence in small municipalities. And if you're going to have fun or if you're going to confirm this today, what we've said is legally controversial - so it seems to support the deletion of this - but if you're going to have fun bringing this back to the law, government or coalition, I'd like to warn you what that means. If you legalise a 4% threshold in Ljubljana, this means over 8,000 signatures, very much in mind because it is just over 200,000 voters; they will never be collected, I tell you. There will be no list that will be able to collect this because signatures need to be certified and so on. If you legalize this 4% threshold in smaller municipalities of less than 5,000, and more than half of them, even though we know how it is with the law and the establishment of these municipalities, and if this municipality, which has fewer than 5,000 inhabitants, is still divided into constituencies, which is possible under law, it can mean 20 or 30 signatures. And you're going to have a story with preferential voices again. So, in smaller municipalities, there will be a wide open path for the candidatures, and in large municipalities this will be impossible, and practice will show a hundred percent that it will not be implemented either. So, let me make a decision. I think it would be hygienic to support the amendment of the Liberal Democracy, which gives a higher threshold in the beginning, 25% in terms of gender emancipation, and the second in terms of legal inadequacy. However, if you think about the 4% threshold for single lists, then make up not a new percentage but a differentiated percentage from the congregation to the congregation. Because we have so many different municipalities because of problems with local self-government and the system that we have, that they are also incompatible with each other in the possibility of running. I think I've shown it with numbers enough, and that's gonna hold. However, I certainly think it is necessary to find the numbers if you are already looking for them, which will maintain the possibility of candidateing also by citizens who are not only bound to the party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u215	Thank you, Mr. Tarchoon. Mr Jerovšek has the floor. Let's get Mr. Znidaršič ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u216	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Secretary! With this amendment, which amends the current amendment on women's representation, I must say that I will not support it, because I believe that this amendment is more rational, more pragmatic and allows a gradual increase in the quota of women to participate in elections and in politics. In fact, the law is written for the whole of Slovenia. And it is not possible for a local urban environment to apply the situation to the whole of Slovenia. It is even less possible or even more surprising that this was an additional thought that prompted the original number, [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] changed, the basis for this flagranten, a disgusting attack on our customers by Mr. Petk. [[...]] In fact, the talk of the autism of these parties has exceeded the threshold of some normal debate in this national assembly and the suggestion that such thinking or such a proposal, which is now up-to-date, which the coalition has just proposed, is due to the internal structure of the parties who are not capable of their internal structure of a more ambitious approach - I must say that not only am I surprised but I am actually protesting against such talk and I suggest that those who so speak only look at the internal structure of your parties and what the internal structure of your parties enables you to run and elect to whom and to what candidates. Look, this inner structure of our customers, here I'd say [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u217	Mr Jerovšek, we are talking about the amendments to Article 4.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u218	That's exactly what I'm talking about. And look, the internal structure, when we talk about what has been made possible so far, has made it possible in our party, say in Nova Slovenija, that young, capable women were also elected, who are in honour, pride and decoration to the National Assembly. If you stand in front of a mirror, you will see that this is precisely the positive consequence of the inner structure of our customers, that we also allow young people, not only those who have dozens of years of political kilometres that have been everywhere and everywhere and that only those are left to the cities that are optional. And such a positive internal structure of these parties has been the subject of the worst possible attack. I don't know when you're going to think about what you're talking about and about this demagogy you're trying to run. I'm glad you're talking like that because it's totally in conflict with the real situation. I must say that these parties are those who attract young people today, and also women who are capable of engaging in this country's interests. And that's why your speech is offensive and at the same time empty. Finally, I would like to stress once again. This proposal, which is now written down and will be supported, is more understandable, we cannot work without knowing what leaps, because this argument that there were 21% of women on the candidate list was also your argument that there were 21% of women on the candidate list in the official elections is on average. You need to know that there will now be 20% in all congregations and that the average will be significantly higher, that now the average of the candidates will be significantly higher and you will consciously avoid these arguments of this identification and say some things that are not at all true. So once again, think about what you're talking about, remove these proposals that are less real than what's written down, and at the same time look in the mirror when you're talking about the internal structure of the customers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u219	Thank you, Mr. Jerovska. Mr. Milan Petek responded to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u220	Thank you, President, for the opportunity for a replica. So, if the bee stings, it obviously hurts, even more than the peak is strong. Mr Jerovšek completely misunderstood me. So I did not read the avalanche to the parties, but I have declared one statement to be abominable - and I still insist and I think it is - a statement that Mr Ficko made at the meeting of the Committee on Local Self-Government and Rural Development. This is my opinion and, of course, no one will convince him with this abjectness. Of course, if it is thought that I thought the parties were aboriginal, Mr Jerovšek misunderstood that.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u221	Mr Petek, in my opinion, who calls a statement idiotic, stupid, abominable, xenophobic, also insults the one who made the statement. That's why it's an insult. Mr Žnidaršič has the floor to prepare Mr Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u222	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So our parliamentary group will support the government's amendment, the amendment of the Liberal Democracy amendment by the government, which thus opens up the possibility of remedying the question of the inadmissibility of 4% of independent papers. So I think this is the compromise that is now acceptable to us. On the other hand, with 20% accepted for candidate lists in local elections, it is a mitigating circumstance that there is actually now a need to ensure this 20% in all municipalities. Even where there have been no women so far, and such congregations have been quite a number, some 10, which will certainly correct the outcome or achievement of the last local elections. That is how I think that, despite the seemingly stagnation in this regard, more women on the candidate lists and, of course, elected women can be expected in such a fashion, and that is why we will support this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u223	Thank you, Mr. Znidarsic. Mr Rezman has the floor to prepare Mr Kontic.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u224	Thank you. Since we have been working for a few hours now, sometimes we can have such discussions in which we can relax and have fun. I hope that those who listen to this at home on TV and because of what you have heard today from individual mouths not only take it for pure evil but for entertainment. At least that's what I'd recommend. I would have hoped to risk a forecast, a forecast that has been announced several times today, that if a percentage were to be significantly higher in those municipalities where women had run so far, as it had been in previous elections. For a very simple reason, for more than 30 congregations will have such lists. The second thing that excites us in all this, if I say patheticly, is the fact that it will be significantly more elected because in the first half they will have to be in the chaining system and this is a bigger effect than just running. There will be more candidates, and I am sure there will be more who will be elected. Of course, under the condition that the municipalities in which they have run so far will also retain this degree of candidacy. I, because it is predicted that we will change legislation again in this area, will order our research service to tell me what are the 30 congregations, what are the procedures because there are no women. And when we figure out this data, then we'll see how it's necessary and why and where it's going to take action, and then we probably won't have to talk about women fighting, as it was said today, not anymore. How come they're not around? Also statistically, agreed, it doesn't make any sense. And perhaps there are no ones who would allow them to access the lists, but I am sure that they are those who would be willing to accept both responsibility and influence and power, because that is what politics is all about after all. And I would like to, because this has already been said and because this autism has been mentioned, I would also like to define it. And since I belong to a coalition group alone, so that no one else would ascribe such thoughts to me, I am sincerely sorry to all those women who have been called counterproductive.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u225	Thank you, Mr. Rezman. Mr Kontic has the floor to prepare Mr Štebe.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u226	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Secretary! I will support the amendment of the Social Democrats Group, which returns 20% back to 25%, that is, 25% of the second sex on the lists for the municipal councils. I am also opposed to the statements that go in the direction that women who run and can then be chosen by chance to be inexperienced women because they have nothing with politics, and that voters will be sorry later that they have been elected. I fear that the electorate is often sorry for that man’s population, who is elected to the municipal councils as well as elsewhere, that they have been elected and likely to do so in any subsequent election. I support Lord Jerovšek, have you spoken now? [[...]] It's someone. Then someone close to you. I suggest you let those who say they have the opportunity to perform their performance without delay. I support the procession because I know that it is not easy to interest fellow citizens in the election to participate in the municipal councils, especially because we have made politics unattractive for the majority of us. By prescribing a percentage of both sexes on the list, we force customers to strive to reach out to the sex who is now less represented. Maybe it'll be a few years from now, after a few elections, a man's part of the population. We therefore urge them to list their candidates and candidates, somehow evenly in the first half. Above all, I am convinced that this is because I know the functioning of the municipal council, i.e. local self-governments at Stage I and especially in small municipalities I know these development coalitions of men who are somehow geared towards meeting the needs of municipal infrastructure or elsewhere. However, I do not think that women are interested in this in municipal councils, in municipal politics. However, they are much more sensitive and often point to problems or propose solutions in the field of social, health, education, child care, etc., thus elevating the work of the municipal council. However, the question arises to me when we reduce from 25% to 20%, our seriousness. Our seriousness with regard to the enforcement of so-called clamps. For example, we have 12 candidates and candidates. 25% of this means, of course, that we have to have 3 candidates out of 12 free cities. This, of course, also allows us to do the first half of this candidate list at a time of delay. If it's less than that, of course the clamp can't be. But I stress, 25% means that we have 3 candidates out of 12 seats on the candidate list. In other cases, the calculation is similar. We would do well to support efforts to have lists of at least 25% of both sexes represented in the first successive elections. In this way, too, we will be able to avoid, if we are to avoid, these non-participating lists that are emerging and on which some of you have a very negative opinion. Of course, I'm aware of the problems these non-party, independent lists cause when you want to form a coalition for a particular matter. These are some kind of non-trust to political parties, i.e. all those who, at this point in time, meet with politics in one way or another, do not say we are engaged. If a list in a particular local community gets a seat in the city council, a seat, two, maybe more, because it strives to build a water supply in a particular area or build a kindergarten, of course, that means that between the people, between the electorate and the electorate, there is a need for these changes and that is why this list receives support. If this were a partial matter, a minor matter, of course, the electorate and the electorate would not be rewarded with a city in the municipal world, whether it be the city council or the municipal council. I propose, honourable Members and Members, that we support the amendment under number one.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u227	Thank you, Mr. Kontic. I was named, you want a replica? Here you go, Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u228	I would like to replicate something substantive, but also to Mr. Kontić, to follow the debate, but not to find an on-call guilty party, although [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u229	Mr Jerovšek, I don't think you were misunderstood.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u230	No, totally. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u231	Stick to the principle of replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u232	No, I have to protest that way too. I didn't even pick up. Although I agree, or I think the call in Parliament is normal, this time I have not answered and I do not allow myself to be condemned in this way. Secondly, Mr Kontic spoke of our seriousness. Here he probably thought in these delay proposals, and all of this, Mr. Kontič, that all that is written here is very serious and we show significantly more seriousness than that. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u233	Mr Jerovšek, this is already a debate [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u234	Yes, our seriousness. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u235	You can sign up for the debate. I'll write you down in the end. Mr Šteba has the floor to prepare Mr Mikolić.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u236	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! First of all, let me warn you that I don't have any special problems with ladies because I'm a member of this party. Thus we have been characterized or even received even an appropriate insult, and this has not been specifically pointed out by our fellow Member. We are discussing a fifth or a quarter of the mandatory women's candidacy on the lists for municipal councils. I don't think that's going to change the outcome significantly. If we overturned the outcome of the elections, and because of the exchange of candidates, I am sure that this percentage will not decide at all, since, on average, in the municipal councils, every sheet on the average may receive perhaps a third of the seats. And if there is an exchange in these seats, but it is mandatory to exchange up to half the leaves, then this will certainly not have a significant impact and we are talking about a nonessential percentage. It is essential, however, that we, together with the European Union, are not otherwise able to achieve the same result. With some artificial coercion, we try to wash our own conscience. But our own conscience is why both capable and women do not run. Why aren't they running? I think that in this country this is also due to the situation that has been. Politics was a special opportunity for some, but in Slovenia alone we made it a particularly bad voice. And a lot of people who might have their professional preferences or ambitions to work in politics, because of that way, even media representation, just don't want to run. The vast majority of those who would be fit to work in politics and who are capable, but who simply do not have time for these things, because for many of them their actual service is more important. A lot of those who are running or running, which you are doing, are going to politics, or are going to politics at work, or at work that also allows us to do, some even during working hours. The problem is that we are involved in politics for some perhaps idealistic reasons, but there are many who have or have the opportunity to do so. And so, I would say, artificial coercion does not lead to the ultimate goal. In this way, though, if we are to encourage in some way, let us be more progressive. And I'm advocating a more gradual approach. Alone would be for a lower percentage, for a longer period. Above all, this can be compensated in the manner already mentioned, with the appropriate role of preferential vote. And if women are really good candidates, it doesn't matter where they are on the list. A preferential voice allows you to choose anyone, no matter where it is on the list. But with us, at least in local communities, in municipalities, preferred votes are not what voters would have realized and actually used to elect a specific person. However, I am sure that in smaller municipalities, if the preferred votes were to have a voice as such, it would be possible to quickly gather enough votes for you to have a mandate. So I think that any more gradualness, given that we are trying by artificial coercion, forgive this expression - coercion, I also think in the sense that this awareness that there are not enough women involved in this part of society's activities, we are trying to correct by legal determination that work in this way is not appropriate and that all other means must be used for such a relationship, to achieve the best possible relationship with the population. I will not support this amendment. I advocate a lower percentage if it is already necessary to introduce, and I think we should introduce this in a different way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u237	Thank you, Mr. Stebeth. Mr. Mikolitch has the floor. Get ready, Mr. Janc.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u238	Thank you, Mr. President. In the New Slovenia Group, the amendment, which returns a percentage of women's quota from 20% to 25%, will not be supported. Although it's true that we were on the same ground a few weeks ago. True too, I must say that I come from a rural congregation where we have one third of the members of the world in the congregation. It is also true that the Nova Slovenija Group is the highest percentage of women in this Parliament. That's why it's probably right to say that I'm not too worried about being at our local level, that even if we were to start at 40%, we wouldn't have candidates in my local community. However, it is right that we are careful about the facts of the previous elections in 2002. The fact is that in some congregations there were no women on the list, not to mention that just in 30 congregations, as has been heard many times today, women were not elected to the congregation council. There may be little awareness of one good thing, things that have been restricted many times already today, alternating performances on the first half of the lists, or a system of clampings that, in fact, in a number of municipalities, are once again the experiences and results of past elections, in a number of constituencies on a particular party line progressing or are elected two. I am talking about a number of municipalities within the range of 3,000 to 10,000 people. In fact, this means even a 50-50 ratio, of course it would be ideal if it were, probably not, but these are some theoretical facts that will be present in the next elections. By not supporting our parliamentary group's proposed amendment to the SD or LDS Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u239	Thank you, Mr. Mikolitch. Mr. Janc has the floor. Get Mrs. Pechanova ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u240	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A respected minister with a team, colleagues, colleagues! An interesting debate on this topic is taking place in the National Assembly, and in some ways local elections, campaigns and so on have already begun. Here it sounds good to hear who comes from what environment and what pleases him better than not, that's normal, logical, that's what we are. I will certainly not support this amendment either for simple reasons. Firstly, I am in favour of gradually introducing these equal opportunities, and I would say that, until now, the same opportunities have been given to every woman to participate in local, state, secular, mayoral, parliamentary, presidential, etc. elections. It is true, though, that not all of us have been able to make this relationship a little bit greater together. Or because the Slovenian environment in 130 municipalities is such that many women do not care, they do not want to, they do not want to burden themselves with it. I'm afraid that even with this compulsion, it won't be much better, but I do, and I want to be the mayor myself, that it would be significantly better to get more faces for women in the municipal world than for men, simply because I have them and I know that they are very constructive, working and very capable. However, I believe that with this kind of compulsion to local politicians, we will have to set up these settings so that, in that time, they will have to make sure that those municipalities that have not been active at all will take a step forward in order to have more of this relationship in the municipal council of local communities. I hope and believe that we come from different backgrounds and different municipalities, different environments - different interests in politics. As a colleague earlier said, some -- even more men -- are not very interested, unfortunately, that is the case. The law by the citizens of corruption has thrown many good municipal saints out - not good, a mistake! I warned you that very early in February of the minister's month, and he waved his hand a little bit, that's all right. It's not okay! Many of them got out because of a stupid article because the municipal official, the saint, compared them with the Prime Minister, the MP, etc. Unfortunately, I hope that we will see this as soon as possible and correct this error as stipulated by the law. I would like, and probably all of us, to get good municipal councillors, both entrepreneurs and women, men, etc., in short, a team that will work for the benefit of the local environment of future regions and of course the whole country. Therefore, this government support proposed by this proposal will be pleased to support our efforts to replace what has been delayed since the last local elections, because we have failed. However, I believe that some environments, especially urban municipalities, do not have any difficulty in easily obtaining this quota and more, some smaller ones, but rural municipalities have major problems. Believe me, we are making a law for all of Slovenia here, so let us also look at those smaller ones and be understanding to those congregations that already have great problems and believe in it, they will also have them in the future, but I hope that this timely amendment of the new law will send them local party Februaryes to take this seriously. And I believe that we also get an adequate number of suitable and good candidates for municipal councils. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u241	Thank you, Mr. Janz. Mrs Pečanova has the floor to prepare Mr Kokalj.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u242	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. First of all, I'd like to remind you that it's an old Slovenian river that says there are no stupid men and no ugly women in the world. But times change and we change with them, they say, "Tempora mutant et nos mutamur and illis", which means that it can also be reversed, it says, there are no ugly men and there are no stupid women. Above all, I would like to say that I know of one small municipality, which is said to belong in the category of those I have heard about today, how very unhappy they are, because no woman in these small municipalities wants to run for municipal elections, not for the county, not for a municipal councillor, not for any committee, commission or anything like that. I must say, these are very unfortunate congregations. It's interesting that there are women out there who do nothing but mess in the community, but I don't think that's true. For example, the Dobe Congregation, a well - known congregation some years ago when it was formed, there two women set up two parties. Why and how they were founded, they wouldn't, but women were set up, and women were running on the list of these two parties. It is said that it is not at all true that the problem is that women would not want to run if even in small municipalities they are willing to expose themselves and set up customers for being able to help run the congregation equally and with their knowledge and abilities. And now I'd like to say something else that's grown on my herbs. According to my experience, I hope that, especially in small municipalities, women can do the most good because women know exactly what is missing in their environment, what needs to be done to make it better. That's why it's right for these women to come to the candidate list, and only the customers have to wake up a little bit and ask them if they want to. They usually say, "Ma'am, would you -- just one second -- ma'am, are you really so sure that you want to run? You know how annoying it is to be in a congregation hall. I advise you not to." Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u243	Thank you, Mrs. Roach. Mr Kokalj has the floor to prepare Mrs Shirca.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u244	Thank you very much. I myself think that this debate will help to make it easier for more women to become involved in politics than the law itself, depending on whether we adopt 20 or 25% or any other percentage. The fact is that we live in a society that had a second scale of values in the past and where the role of a woman was actually slightly different in society and politics was a more manly matter, which in itself does not mean anything bad. It is not right, however, that I think at the last two meetings of the National Assembly there is some kind of conflict between the sexes on the political scene. The previous meeting began and then this was maintained in public and I would not want this artificial division or this artificial conflict to be established in some way out of the way because I do not think it exists. The law itself doesn't make this happen. The law is just, I'll say, a minimum necessary force that must have some healthy measure in order for more women to be involved in social life, not just in politics. I think the problem is much broader. I would like to have greater sexual balance here in Parliament, already as a normal man, sitting here all day watching most of the men, I think it's not as pleasant as if there's another woman's face between us. On the other hand, we know that certain segments of this society are such that it is not an extremely healthy climate because this balance is broken. Let's just look at kindergartens and elementary schools. There I would strongly like this sexual balance to be better because of the healthy, more balanced climate of children, but we will probably not be allowed to adopt a law that would adopt a minimum quota of teachers, for example, in primary schools, but could be proposed in the same logic as the minimum quota of saints in municipal councils. In fact, the law itself is a major fixer of the situation. No minimum or quota for women has been enacted so far. Now I think 20%, as proposed, is enough for the first step, which does not mean that there can be 100% women on the lists. That 20% is just a minimum, not a maximum. And that party, that list that thinks women can work better in politics, has all the doors open. That is why it does not seem good to me that we are discussing this 20 or 25% too much today, because in this way we are working artificially again on a conflict situation which is essentially not proposed by this law. I'm sure 20% is a healthy compulsion if we want to make any changes, so far enough. However, it seems to me, as I said earlier, that public debate and debate in the media as well as at other levels will help to make women, with a different approach to solving social problems than men, more inclusive and I am sure that the need for greater inclusion of women is real. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u245	Thank you, Mr. Bones. Mrs Širca has the floor to prepare Mr Montenegro. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u246	Thank you very much. Today we are discussing, by quoting my forerunner, the law that is called the law of healthy coercion. I think we are dealing with a solution that speaks of a more painful situation, and I would like to explain why I think it is not healthy and that it has not forced it and why it is sick. Mr Kokalj says that the law substantially fixes the current situation. That's not true, Mr. Bones. At the 2002 local elections, 21.2% of women were elected 13%, 11% for mayors and 6% or 11 mayors were elected. But it's interesting, and here's a slight correction, compared to the previous 1994 and 1998 elections. In 1994, 18% - 2002 - I said 21% - 11% were elected and 5 mayors received 3% at the time. In 1998, in the next term, a percentage of women were nominated, i.e. 19%, 12% were elected, one percent more. Eight mayors and 4% were elected mayors. This statistics, which I say, the standards that we now have in this so-called healthy compulsion already consumed in previous elections, this statistics tell us something. These data tell us that the percentage of the presence of elected and also women candidates on the lists increases by one per cent to four years in the three elections to date. This is said to be a very gradual, slow and very moving situation. And that, as has been pointed out many times today, 28 congregations, not 30, exist without any saints, let alone mayors. But whether Slovenia's goal, if we follow these so-called natural trends, is to achieve balance only 125 years from now, if we reach this 40%, this is true in 2130 - it is not and must not be! This healthy compulsion is bad. That's why I'm going to support the amendment. I also agree with the amendment to the SD, but I will support the LDS amendment, because this process, which has been very close to you today, introduces our amendment more explicitly. I mean, social change isn't automatic change. There is no doubt that awareness is important on the one hand, and on the other hand there are concrete legal corrections that can also mean a shift in the existing spiritual state or perception. I do not think that marriage solutions would be perceived by the way women are listed in the local elections in alphabetical order. So they should be, because they have to be. No, no, no. But in a way that means that these women can contribute qualitatively and quantitatively to work in politics. In short, I wonder why we should lower our standards. It makes no sense for us to go under what we achieved in 2002. I would also like to draw your attention to the analysis that came about immediately after the national elections and after the adoption of the Equal Opportunities Act. It was carried out by the Equal Opportunities Office. Let us see how individual parties can make themselves conscious or contribute to this awareness without any more binding legal provisions if they arrange their own internal lives, as already discussed by a colleague of Cvet. The analysis of the statutes and electoral programmes of the parties shows us - you can look at the website of the office for equal opportunities. However, without going too far, let me just say that only three parties have specific objectives with concrete measures in their statutes. Only three parties, namely the former United List after this analysis, the Liberal Democracy and DeSUS, have concrete measures and objectives, as well as clearly urgent changes in gender equality. While the rest of the parties - of course, I will consider the then taken into account Young People's Party - talk about equality or the gender issue only in the field of family, they only pay attention to family issues, demagogic policies and employment. In short, those internal commitments that should be sought by all parties, which Europe also points out, Slovenian democracy does not yet have, except in some exceptions. However, I would like to draw your attention to another analysis that was done years ago and also to the Office for Equal Opportunities. Let me quote just a few results. This was an analysis comparing the experiences and views of municipal and city councillors, between the saints themselves and women working at municipal levels. It compares 1999 and 2002. This analysis is very instructive and useful for the writers of the law and today’s interpreters. What do the saints say, say, to the question: What does the nature and content of politics mean - to change, say women, if there were more women in it? And that says almost 65% of women saints. This is particularly true in the majority of those who have decided to run again, which means that this situation has undoubtedly convinced them in practice. It is interesting, for example, to see the number of initiatives and proposals adopted by saints in municipal councils. It goes beyond what the saints give. Moreover, the proposals adopted go beyond them. They're to a large extent. They are at least 70 percent achieved compared to those given by saints. Let me tell you what this analysis also reveals. According to the councilors, the affection of the immediate environment in their work, in the municipal and city councils is significantly greater than that of others. It's about how she perceives a woman's surroundings in sacred places. In fact, it supports them in 72% of the year 99. They are supported by the surrounding area as much as 80% in 2002. Of course, women saints, in analysis or in this study, also declare that men in the party have a much greater influence than women, in client political life, and that they act significantly more independently of client dictatorships or client orders and are more independent. In short, I wanted to draw attention to the quality of women and their work in city councils or mayoral cities with the analysis that I recommend to you in reading that I do not take too much space with the material that is available. Let me conclude with just one more observation made by women. Of course, they all think, almost 60%, that men are in a much better position than women in society, and that they are only a little better if we measure for better or less better than men. This is said to be viewed by 90% as not being properly accepted and appreciated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u247	Thank you, Mrs. Shirci. Mr. Kokalj made contact with the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u248	Thank you very much. Because I was mentioned, Mrs. Shirca. This is exactly where it turned out that you, as a woman, and how I, as a man, understand the same information. Those 21% of the candidates in the last local elections, you see as a range that, according to this bill, is in some way being suppressed. And I understand it differently. When there was no coercion, there was no disputed threshold, however, 21% of women spontaneously ran. Now that this threshold is raised - I'll say - that force 20%, we can expect about 40% of women's candidates in this logic. I think that somehow logically and naturally it is being corrected. As a man alone, I don't see a problem in this sense as you do. And I am also sure, given the system of restraints, that emancipation will also be significantly greater than it was. Also because of this required 20%, which I think is sufficient in this step given that Slovenia is very different in the environment. So that we don't have problems on the other hand where it's hard to get a woman's thoughts on the lists. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u249	Thank you, Mr. Kokal. There's no replica to the replica. But you can report to the debate. Mrs. Shirca. Mr. Chernač has the floor to prepare Mrs. Uhanova
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u250	Thank you so much for saying that. A nice greeting to all who persist in this hall! The more I listen to this debate, the more I am convinced that none of the amendments proposed by the SD and the LDS are suitable for validation. Because I think we're talking about 20% or 25% or 30% or 35% of the time, we're talking about the back of the shadow. I am even more convinced of this position, which, if I am not mistaken, was presented by my colleague Barovic, that only a provision of the law should be amended which speaks of the equality of the candidates of the citizens of another Member State of the European Union in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia and nothing else. For all these debates that we are hearing today speak of some coercion. Now, whether this one forced 25% or 30% or 35%, it doesn't matter. The options we now have are open and equal for all. There's no limit. However, we have a law that is appropriate in section 4 of this section. For he who had read this provision could read that in the first half of the candidate list the candidates should be distributed alternately by sex. This is the essence of the law, not the percentages that we are discussing all the time today. If you throw a little bit on the table of calculations and look at what it actually means in practice - I made a couple of calculations here - on most municipal councils from 16 to 23 members. In all of these cases, not 40% representation was achieved in 2014 but 50% representation at local level in most municipal councils next year. Because 20% of the threshold is for 20 saints, 4 candidates. And if we sort them out first, it's 1st, 3rd, 5th, 7th. If we sort them out by an even number, 2, 4, 6, 8 means 25% change for one city. In any case, this calculation in municipal councils, which is the majority of our country, comes out in terms of the number, so that, in fact, candidates at local level are elected to the municipal councils in the number of 50% or as far as they reach the list of votes in the elections. However, if you go to look at the results of the elections, the last term three years ago, you will see that there is no list that has reached more than 35% of the threshold. That means the number stops there at seven. We could continue to discuss that we may be a little neglected in this case, because then we will have to settle down to the end in accordance with this provision. But I don't think there's anything wrong here, and that's not why it's not a problem to solve the marriage. I do not see the underlying problem in what is now written in the law, because I think that these provisions are more than good. I see it in this and I have expected this debate today on these amendments, how to attract women to politics without coercion. There was some talk about it by some of my colleagues, not by the ones I've been most expecting here, which concerns them most. I think that with such empty debates as today, certainly not. I think that's just how we turn them down. Let's be honest. Do you really think that under this formula of ensuring equal opportunities through the enforcement of this method of coercion - because it is also some kind of coercion, if we are purely honest, by ensuring that we can also ensure candidateing for those who may not want to - do we really ensure a better quality of decision-making where we want to reach it? I believe that women will be attracted to politics only if they see the challenge of their own enforcement, the results of their work and their enforcement. I'm sure we won't be able to do that with a percentage of 20, not 25 and not 30. This I do not think is the subject of this law, but of other discussions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u251	Thank you, Mr. Chernach. Mrs Uhanova has the floor to prepare Mr Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u252	Thank you so much for saying that. We will not support the amendment under consideration in Novi Slovenija, because we believe that the law does not prevent women from being involved in politics, but we commit them to running. At least 20% of them will have to get involved and run, you don't want to. The percentage elected will be significantly higher on the basis of the bracket, which means that they will alternately be present on the leaves. In New Slovenia we have no problems involving women in politics. We even want them on the lists. They are present, and we also do not make up leaves based on sex, but the will to be ready for work, abilities and so on. I am convinced that this is the case and that in future elections there will also be a higher percentage of women on New Slovenia's lists. I hope that you will also take this into account other parties, because the law says there must be at least one, but there can be up to 80%. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u253	Thank you, Mrs. Uhanov. Mr Jerovšek has the floor to prepare Mr Ficko.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u254	Thank you very much. I must say that it has been said earlier about the seriousness of such proposals, that I am firmly convinced that these are extremely serious and responsible proposals based on respect and interest for more information from women in public life. But probably - because I didn't actually agree to the quotas - it wouldn't be necessary for the previous authorities to do anything in this area. Because today's debate shows that it's a very dogmatic left-wing pose when you say something and you're doing something very different in practice. They propose higher percentages, a much higher enforcement of higher quotas, and at the same time they have done nothing in the past. That's why I have to remind you of our seriousness. Indeed, even in the European elections, our party has proposed a change to the law, which has led to a higher quota and also a higher choice of women. I don't know, you guys had a chance to talk about something today. In practice, you have done virtually nothing to increase women's information. This talk is extremely unrealistic, populist, demagogistic, politically recalculated. For we must face what has been done in the past. What a serious contribution it has been to be able to make clear today, as if some were worried that they did not want to take bigger steps, etc. This proposal, which is now written down - I think - is very realistic and allows for significantly greater participation and information of women, and at the same time in a far too drastic way does not interfere with the fact that women should be forced to do so, and therefore I reject that this law is a sick coercion. It's not about any sick coercion. Gives those open opportunities to women. I think the consequences will always show up so quickly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u255	Thank you, Mr. Jerovska. Mr. Ficko has the floor to prepare Mrs. Zalockarov.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u256	Thank you very much. There was much talk today about even or controversial balance. I hope that the viewers who follow us will not understand that we who are in here are now all sexually unbalanced. Indeed, we are talking about the equal representation of women in politics. This expression of sexual balance sounds a little different. I don't know if you've had a good look at the material. The amounts foreseen in the current bill are not a necessary measure. Europe could have foreseen a variety of measures in those recommendations, and it also states in our constitution that these are measures to promote greater gender representation. It could be encouraging the financing of political parties or punishing political parties who are supposed to have women represented. Now that the government has drawn up a proposal for quotas, let's grab on to these percentages. Only a short math says that if there were 20 percent of the leaves so far without candidates and now 20% of them will have 20% candidates. That raises the threshold by 4%. These percentages are going to go up. I am surprised, however, that the representatives of the women's sex who held the previous elections talk about this very much - saying that they have a well-ordered women's policy - 19% of the parties. I have a list of candidates for the municipal council in Domžale. It's a very nice piece of paper. She is headed by Mrs Cveta Zalokar Orazem and then by the 9th place one other lady, and on the 11th and so on. So, this clamp - I don't mean the clamping of Mrs. Cvete, it holds these leaves - shows what policy this party has in balance - I think - by gender. And let me touch a little bit more of that 4% for independent lists. You probably don't think the matter would have been adopted, even in this law, if there were no procedural problems. In my presentation to the parliamentary group, I mentioned that I expect this to happen as soon as possible. Of course, this will make it possible to function better in those congregations where now three neighbors went to sign, run, each in one part of the congregation, and, of course, defend their interests. My road, my road to me, has been forgotten by all those other obligations that the congregation must fulfill as a local community. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u257	Thank you, Mr. Fick. Mrs. Zalokarev answered the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u258	Actually, I do have a debate. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u259	But you also have a word, so we can put this together. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u260	First, a replica of my colleague Fick, who went to the municipality where I am mayor, Mr. Ficko, for 12 or 11 and a half years. In short, they are an environment that is friendly to this and also the LDS party has nominated me and given me the opportunity to perform this function. But your data is also a little inaccurate. On the list of LDS, we have three councillors elected to sit in the municipal council, including that I was elected by myself. This means that since the 11th, the LDS party has three councillors in Domžal, as well as the mayor. I think that if this were the average in Slovenia, it would be pretty solid. But I would like to say that I agree with my colleague. The greatest advantage of this marriage is the stiffness - I have it here today too. It's clenched. That's a fact. I also mentioned this in my debate today. This brings quality and a great advantage. This is what has not been demeaned today, but it has also been repeatedly positive on our part. But it is true, which is actually unusual - and this is not just a question of relationship - that I did not get an answer today, why the government coalition changed from 25% to 20%. Although this may be something that doesn't matter, we didn't get that answer. But we did get what I said earlier in the introduction, some extremely unusual arguments that went this way, which was repeatedly highlighted today, about incompetence, about coercion and so on. Of course, it does not seem appropriate for us to debate here in this way. If you'll excuse me, dear colleagues, let me say I've been alone in politics for 12 years. I think I have some experience or I could admit that I have experience with how a woman feels in politics. In the introduction, I said we shouldn't confuse these things. You have to say, space isn't open. Slovenia has one of the worst statistics in Europe. Even in the world, it is somewhere behind many African and Asian countries. This fact is not in favour of this country, the trend is still going down and it is not rising. That's why positive discrimination is necessary. The most frequently raised question I get as a Member and Mayor is why there are so few women in politics. This is also a question that we should ask ourselves several times today in an open and concrete manner and say that political space is not friendly to women, neither in terms of opening up space, nor in terms of the way of work, nor in terms of relations that rule in politics and are very harsh and in this way can also be reflected in my opinion not only for women, but also for other people who may be more sensitive and emotionally receptive. I have already said this today, and I hope to repeat this: there is silent discrimination in politics, there is a presence in politics of women's interference with progress, humiliation, verbal ridicule, which we have been given several times in this room. Media arrest for female politicians. Even the denial of womenhood, if that politics in some sense is not for women and it is just with those who give it up, something is wrong. All this is probably not good for us to be honest and in truth and in a quicker way open and you will also have the opportunity to see a colleague here as - as you said earlier - more pleasant women's faces. Finally, I cannot accept the claim that in these traditional small villages, this space and this thinking are different. I will give two examples of the environment where they have in Lights - I think - already the third mayor's mandate, a very successful relative village environment. Ljubno, Ljubno - I apologize to Ankara - Kun and, of course, the Pohorje Fishery as well. These are environments where women as mayors have proven to be very popular. Of course, it's more about other things. Here is evidence that it is necessary to do so in a different way and space needs to be opened. I think we are taking one step forward today, but the damage - once again, I stress - that this step should not have been any more. You could have made another one. Because this legislation does not change very often, so it is not and should be used when this option is opened. Another explanation in this regard is that the municipal councillors also resign because of the provisions of the anticorruption law. That is true, but there is common sense and ignorance. For more than once, at least we have received an explanation that the congregation councilman can operate in space. Mr Kos has also stated this several times and has also sent a directive. It can operate throughout the Slovenian territory, except in its own municipality. Which I think we all know can be unhygienic. But this topic may be open tomorrow. And now perhaps a Slovenianist discourse. Today, the word autism was defined as an insult by you, Mr President. Of course, the word is foreign. It may be somewhat controversial, but it is relatively neutral. That's what my fellow celebrities will tell you, because that word means nothing but stupidity or stupidity. For example, in the dictionary of the Slovenian book language is written by an autism naive boy, as an example. I mean, these words -- I don't think it was appropriate to compare them to the words you mentioned: homophobics, idiots. I don't know, lowlifes and so on. In short, a much more substantially emotional and substantively colored word in a negative sense. It seems to me that, as was not necessary in this sense, apathy for stupidity and stupidity, but statements. I went to see a magnetogram too. In this respect, it has somehow been stated that this declaration is abject. It seems to me that it is not, is not possible, but if it is to be likened or equated with substantially more negative insulting words. So I think it's right today to explain to ourselves that we're probably going to be looking again and again for who's more and who's less offensive. But the word abject is very, very neutral. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u261	Thank you, Mrs. Zalokarev. Mr Rokavec, State Secretary, made a statement.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u262	Thank you for your word. Ladies Members and Members of Parliament, Mr President. Just something from the debate, maybe even these comments, especially the importance of determining 20% or 25%. In fact, this percentage is not actually relevant to the reduction of 25 per cent to 20%. What is important is what has already been said, the importance of sticking. However, the importance of the attachment will be so much greater if the provisions of the law, which allow for too many so-called independent sheets, are also amended below. In fact, if we look at analogue candidatures and the number of leaves in European elections, we can see that in those leaves that were smaller, the system of clamping could have been more effective. In those cases where there is more leaves and there is also greater selectivity of more leaves, the question is also the actual possibility of effectiveness of the stick. Here it would be necessary for all those who explicitly encourage faster application of the clamp, also to place it on the heart, that changes should also be made on this segment if it is to go into the faster functioning of the clamping system. At this point, we know, given the business regulations, that things can't be handled. But in the next step, it is likely that it will make sense to try also in this segment and also in that segment, which actually in some environments too many leaves prevent the normal functioning and functioning of municipal councils or city councils. So much for a little while. Now, the second question is the gradual introduction of a percentage of the quota. See, it has already been found today that municipalities with more than 12 councillors will have to provide at least three candidates or candidates of one or other sex in all the candidate lists at the next regular local elections to ensure adequate gender representation on the candidate lists. This is a very large change from the already quoted percentage, which was on average held and achieved in the last local elections. This is the difference between the average where certain municipalities had a significantly higher average and some municipalities did not have any candidates. So I am sure that all political parties will be ahead of this important test before carrying out this task. Each of the political parties will have problems in some environments. However, it is in some ways a conscious decision to ensure that women are also more involved in politics. So it is probably also important to make such a comment on this debate, where there are actually significant changes and developments in the positive direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u263	Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State of Rockac. Mrs. Shirtz has the floor. Get ready, Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u264	It is indeed important changes, Mr Secretary of State, and it is right that we are aware of what has been said many times today that these changes would not be possible, unless we have made every effort in the past, together with a fairly high consensus, to change the constitution. Therefore, it is clear and loud to my speakers that it is not true that Slovenia has done nothing in this area. The change in the Constitution was a very under-appreciated act several times. But I must also say that it was made at a time when Slovenia - I will say - became "mature" for these options. For all, especially political summits, faced with European institutions has always been very embarrassing and reddish when they came across the first question of all delegations or visits even when we went outside Slovenia, where, how many women are in the Slovenian political space, why they are not present. We know how many puzzles these questions have left behind. As a result, the amendment of the law or the application of the so-called quotas in the European Elections Act was far less questionable than the amendment of this law today, which is not so binding. Because, like the one we know, he's making a bigger commitment. But it is true that in other circumstances. I want to say that the European Constitution has, as it were, repeated what we have written in the Constitution. I can only repeat once again that it is a pity that we have some kind of demagogic solution now if we do not support these amendments that are offered. Because they're quotas, they're solutions. We can say, you will, we are somewhat mild to gender equality, we are pro-European, but in fact the solutions offered are too radical and too little egalitarian and permeable. However, it depends on the parties' statutes, which may be more ambitious, and some are - as far as I am concerned, my own party statute, which standardises the situation significantly better. In fact, this law will not tange us into something that we have not already decided very rationally, emotionally, and logically within the party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u265	Thank you, Mrs. Shirci. Mr Sok has the floor to prepare Mr Janc.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u266	Well, I just want to say for a minute. When we passed the European Elections Act, I was of the same opinion that, in fact, by law, it was a kind of unreasonable act to force women into politics. We ourselves find that more women are on the lists and more elected from the elections. She's in the same profession. My fellow Member Kokalj used to say that certain professions are becoming - I don't know - in journalism, in education, in health in fact women's professions. If we went 50 years ago, we could say that these were very men's professions. Even in a vet - where I know it - where you didn't meet a vet 50 years ago, today it's become a profession where there are many more women than men. In fact, there were no laws to speed this up, but it was based on some maturation, some possibilities. The same is true of politics. In world politics, we could also mention a lot of women who have become very prominent and not actually created there because they would be forced into this by some law, but simply because they wanted to. Well, we also agreed in coalition coordination and with this law to just write it down. But personally, I have great concerns about this. Before that, the question was why there were no more women in politics. I can tell you part of that answer. I'm alone in politics in the National Assembly. I'm in Ljubljana from Tuesday to Friday every week. I have little kids at home. I don't know, and I can't imagine what it would be like if it were my wife who took on a role, and as a mother, she cares and does what she should do. That's one of the reasons. It must be a major aggravating circumstance. The second is that somehow in Slovenia women still do not vote for women at this time and also - forgive me - those ladies who are very committed to it, even if you do not actually support it or at some point have not supported it. I've already warned you about that. We had the opportunity to elect the president of the country because the woman was running. And that's a very good candidate, but she didn't have any support in those women who are infamous, how women should actually be supported in politics. Those are the reasons. Just two more sentences about independent lists. You know an independent list of reinforcements. I don't agree with that. Independent leaves are kind of like sitting on a fence waiting for you to fall to your left or right. That's how these leaves behave. Since I am also quite present in local politics, I can say that most of the time they fall into the mayor's arms and defend one of their own, the only thing they have run for office. Whether it's some kind of road, or if it's some kind of plumbing for some place. In fact, a political party must have a coordinated programme for the entire congregation. I can't be an independent list that I'm interested in for two or three houses in one village. It's not a policy. This is actually a very confusing situation. If, with these four percentages that we have to obtain as a sign of support at the pre-election time, we are able to make the number of these independent sheets slightly smaller or not, then I hope that we have taken a step towards a more transparent municipal policy. However, these independent lists do not result in such or otherwise permissive local coalitions. We will support this amendment of the LDS today, because the matter is not set out in the right article of the law, but as agreed, we will once again in the autumn, and this principle will also be implemented by 4%. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u267	Thank you, Mr. Sok. Mr Janc has the floor to prepare Mr Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u268	Maybe for a while. I come from Posavje, where three municipalities and already close to those 8 or 9 saints have simply resigned because entrepreneurs and perform on State calls for such and other public calls, where it says whether you are a political official. And if you write that you're basically a caller who could report it, it's off. That's because it's disturbing. I think that's unacceptable. We need to fix this as soon as possible in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u269	Thank you, Mr. Janz. Mr Rezman has the floor to prepare Mr Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u270	Thank you very much. If we think of a few rare individual thoughts that would somehow fit in with some Roman Peter Familias, then today we actually said: The door is open, the women are welcome in politics. So, I think that's the right thing to do. I think it's also right to say that those who have not yet been experienced are welcome. For there is quite something sitting in this House to hear of inexperienced people, who therefore no one has the right to expel from politics. There will be some experience. Just like we opened the door to broad women, so I think it's okay to open it to the leaves. The leaves aren't some kind of atavism. The leaves aren't confusing either. You know, I don't agree with that. Say, where I'm mayor, there my list has three times as many saints and saints as all coalition parties here together. We're running a good, unconfusional, long-term targeted policy. We've got good results. For example, in all of Slovenia we have reduced unemployment in four years. It would be hard to say that this is confusion. Next thing I want to say. The leaves - as mentioned - are not flawless. Some are even planted - and I know it - like a coward's egg. Look, I've analyzed what names are involved. But, like they're not leaves without flaws, even customers are not flawless. The leaves are for some -- I'm just repeating what some people have said -- are disturbing others. Really, I'm sure of that. That's why they're there to distract others, those who are political opponents. Customers are also distracting those of their political opponents, probably with some ideas, but this is their job. That's why they're there to represent the interests that they've created themselves. They say - someone said - that leaves can be a problem. Of course they are. For those of you, there's a problem that doesn't work in a game with them. That's why it's a problem. Those who have not been successful in competition with those leaves then the leaves are a problem. As customers may be the problem to others who have been less successful. Let the threshold be, it must be, even though it is not in Europe at some point. Then I'll give you a few countries that don't have it. It is not necessary to have one signature that an independent list can run in one of the European countries. If very quickly: Austria 1%, Czech Republic from 5, in small municipalities to 0.5 in large municipalities, Estonia has no signatures, Finland 10 signatures, France no signatures, Luxemburg 50 signatures, maximum. Hungary 3% to 0.5 in larger, Germany 3 to 30 signatures, Slovakia 10 to 600 signatures, Spain 1% etc., etc. These are empirical data that don't say anything about how terribly non-European it is if you have such a list. [[..]] The next thing I'd like to say is that it sticks - that's what the Secretary of State said - the clamps should be turned around differently. Make sure they're on the women's clutches in the first place, and they'll have problems with that. Will they be represented in enough large quotas in municipal councils? Why are the leaves disturbing? The reasons are very simple. First of all, they've occupied the space that customers want. That's where they're headed. The customers are, of course, on the way. Secondly, the lists do not receive their functional zones in most municipalities of non-financial assets to be received by the parties by the number of votes obtained. The law doesn't allow that. So, they're eating up -- so to speak, bad -- to political parties, financial resources. If their space is occupied, if their financial resources are occupied, if they are denied unlimited power, if they are prevented from creating a monopoly, a political monopoly, then it is clear that they can be disruptive. The Directive, which they have referred to today in this context, does not speak of any specific restrictions that should be taken into account. It is also interesting - and I will end with this when I say that I will support that amendment to the government's amendment that removes this restriction - it is interesting that in some local political parties' committees there is hardly enough men and women to be able to say that they are plural. And they have unlimited access to running. But someone else will have to collect 500, 1,000, two thousand, five thousand signatures so they can even run. I think that's discriminatory.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u271	Thank you, Mr. Rezman. Mr Anderlich has the floor to prepare Mr Juban.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u272	I think that today's discussion has actually missed the purpose of the debate on this law. We are not discussing whether or not we should not discuss whether we will give men something or give them something or even force them. There's not enough discussion, and you open the door, please. Now some of us want to get the women behind the stoves into Parliament. Some of you think it's right to be right there. There is no way that the European Constitution is talking about something that has not yet been adopted. I hope that it will be necessary for the sex, which is sub-represented, to be at local level, to be at national level and also, of course, at elections for the European Parliament, to make better conditions to stimulate more even representation. No way. Even in countries where they do not have a provision today, how many women must be on the lists, but have provisions on how both sexes should be represented in a balanced manner. Of course, we're talking about northern countries, some from the north. You know who I'm talking about, I'm not going to mention here. That's why it's kind of hard for me to justify all of us here something that has actually been the weakness of this Slovenian policy for years - if you want to - for decades. That what we couldn't through normal policies should be social, cultural, I don't know of any other, attract both sexes evenly, equally - if you want to - with the same opportunities to participate in the management of public affairs, to which the municipal councils belong, to which this Parliament belongs, to which the government belongs, to which other representative organisations belong. We do indeed justify the inability of politicians in all these years to date. I don't land and I don't believe it. For at least 20 years is from what I have really met for the first time when I count down that AFJ, when I was actually still a young man, how really my caricatures have been made by the fact that only one and the same women have appeared for many years. Here was something of this subtone today. Only some of the ladies have been here or at some local level for many years and there are no others. I think that since the first time I met these issues, even in political dialogue, a number of things have been done in the political debate. That's right. I would much rather speak in a way that would establish equal opportunities for everyone, but not about talking about how and even the most is - I will say - I also have to discuss at this point, that on one side of Majda, on the other side of the Flower fight against it or myself, for some representation of women, because this marriage - I think - does not talk about it at all and should not talk about bringing into this law some quota, some percentage, some commitment, some commitment to how women will come to these places. But how will they establish conditions to be equally represented? Whether it's at the end of the loop or whatever, it's going to be another thing. I am very embarrassed that we have one law for elections to the European Parliament and it is representative - I will say - very well as regards our MEPs, or about what I would like. So, we have one marriage for Europe, one marriage for home. We have written 40% in that law, and there must be at least one candidate in the upper part, otherwise the list cannot be nominated and the election commission rejects it. Ladies and gentlemen, why should this not apply to elections to this Parliament or to local elections? Why not? Why must we hypnotize and say: We are an open democratic state, we have all the positive discrimination embedded in our legislation so that both sexes can participate in public affairs - if I say so? It just has to be admitted that in some ways it is still this anchored thought. That's right, I've also read some pre-election programmes how some values are established in one way or another. Read it. I'm not quoting any programs. You will see how through these programs you can clearly see that some people would simply like, of course, those who create, create policies in customers, that women should focus primarily on - as I said before - the kitchen. We are the ones we are going to get out of this kitchen into this Parliament. I think it would be better if we simply unify that in all the laws that speak of local elections through the national to European Parliament lists, we have the same criteria built-in. That would seem the fairest thing to me. Everything else seems to me just an apology and an impression. czš, everything's not all right. The options are open, but over the years this will only be settled when other women are ready to run instead of two Majds and maybe flowers. I think that would be the basic thing. Otherwise, I'm going to support a higher percentage, because I think there's something, if not, that would be best. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u273	Thank you, Mr. Anderlich. Mr. Juban has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u274	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Let me say that I will vote first for the first amendment that will not be adopted. I will oppose the other, which will be adopted and I will not have to vote on the third. But I'm still gonna make it. But I'll tell you why. First of all, I will agree with the colleagues of the majority of the coalition, who are talking about the fact that in some environments we have problems with leaves and the completion of lists with women's quotas. Particularly in rural settings and environments with many congregations. And that in these environments either they don't want or they're disabled in running and that in these environments it's also true - what a colleague says - that women are less elective. These are some facts that are present. I can't bluff here to say it's not true. I also hope to say it out loud. Because of the fact that I have said that I will survive all these amendments in delay, which will bring some solutions for us to have a better composition in the congregations, it is also partly reflected in the National Assembly. But that's where things are different. For the reason that I want more women to be in municipal politics because women behave slightly differently. They're acting different. What's here is here. They're more prepared, they're less arrogant, and they're less political or -- in Prekmurje we say -- bullshit, maybe more disciplined and maybe more. And that is why I would be pleased if this solution, which I think is important in delay, contributed to the fact that the municipal councils will have a better composition from a gender perspective and then the quality of their work. The second reason is to express my opinion on a matter which is not the subject of this Article or of amendments. I'll be there real quick. 4% threshold. I'm surprised that 4% of the threshold is opposed to those talking about the majority electoral system, but they have a lot in common to vote for man. Independent lists are created by recognized people who have the option of being elected. It's those who object to this threshold that you're talking about the majority electoral system. [[End warning sign]] That people will know who they elect, and that the one who gets the most votes will be elected. Although - I don't know - in the majority electoral system, 30.40% of the votes are down. But it surprises me. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u275	Mr. Juban, time's up.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u276	Once like that, another time. [[...]] Thank you very much. Excuse me!
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u277	Thank you, Mr. Juban. There's still a government. Mr. Secretary wants a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u278	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. In fact, this debate highlighted perhaps three points which have been repeated over and over again. As regards the regulation of the matter in Article 4, this part is remedied. In doing so, I would add that it will certainly be necessary to weigh and settle matters thoroughly as far as these leaves are concerned. I'll tell you why. Just based on one case. In fact, quotas are already written in this law, but in a different way. Because they're tied to an electoral unit, and whatever the electoral unit, it takes 15 votes. This means 15 votes for the list in Ljubljana as well as in the smallest constituency in the smallest municipality, hypothetically, which is certainly not even and properly regulated. With regard to the second part of this percentage, I would say in particular: If such a law had already been adopted two months ago, I would be at 40% today in accordance with this law. So this could actually be arranged. We also assess that this proposal is, above all, a very realistic proposal. Last but not least, in terms of feedback relations, I think it's even more real. Of course, this 20% does not mean a step forward. I appreciate that this proposal is a significant, significantly larger step forward than it has been so far. And it is probably very difficult to compare with the European Parliament elections, because there is actually one list, some candidates. For the whole of Slovenia, we are talking about thousands of needed candidates - I will say - of the opposite sex, because it regulates matters in a uniform way. Either way, depending on what list is proposed. I would repeat once again - I think - that the solutions in this proposal are indeed very real, so I propose to the National Assembly that the law with the appropriate amendment also support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u279	Thank you, Minister. Since the time for discussion has not yet been fully spent, I ask if anyone else wants to discuss it. So far, I have three announcements: Mr Moge, Mrs Potrata and Mr Gulic. Yes, and Mr. Saiovic. Everyone has five minutes. Here you go, Mr. Mogue.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u280	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! This law will not legislate the successful enforcement of women in politics and participation in power, but it can to some extent prevent it. If we look at history and look at today's reality, I think that some social environments and even some religions have tried to reduce women mainly to the role of the mother. While we look at this picture of us, our first Parliament, when men came and tried to settle under the lip what was supposed to be happening in the future, is a woman shown only with a bowed head and the villains say that in this first Parliament a woman came to ask what she would like for dinner. But let's leave these things at the side. [[Back-up advertising.]] Please, Mr Sok, I have not fallen into your word, but you must be brought up and don't fall in with me. I think times are changing. As Pecan said, we are changing with them, and I have experienced huge changes in my short life and also positive progress in the enforcement of women. It must be said that modern technology has eliminated the woman who was washing in the stream, which in the summer and winter was a wood stove that gave birth to children. You could also say that this protection against pregnancy was somewhere, and I can also say that equal opportunities for education have made it possible for us to have 80% of the golden graduates in Slovenia now, and only 20% of the golden graduates, that women have already crossed men in 2002 at the level of higher education. I mean, we can joke a little about this, too, that when I'm first digged, there'll be a "matriarchate in Slovenia". Should I be afraid of that? No! No! But I have to say that I also have great respect for women, from my mother, to going to sea school, and we were there on a ship of 60 men, and no woman, we sailed across the Atlantic. I also have to tell you how we felt. All this I say is that there is a successful women's march ahead of us, that they have a chance and that they will move on. I don't know why it would be as difficult for us as it would for politicians to give them a better position in participating in power. There's only one segment of our women's society. But I think that in a few years, too, this segment will be so open that women will also be able to do these things that some people are doing. Look at the increase in the number of women in the army. Look at the increase in the number of women in the police force. Look at our colleagues who are here. Many fellow Members may be ashamed to see them fighting as lions in this Parliament for what they have promised their voters. I mean, for all the colleagues sitting in this House. I respect you. I have no objection to not allowing you and your constituencies to go to the polls more favourable conditions than women do now. It is bad if political parties are unable to obtain their women, capable women who can run. I think that when we vote on this, we should think of another saying that says, "There are more costs for the monument." The memory of us will last if we earn it with our work. And such a monument will also be this vote, a monument for women. Whoever supports that amendment that will allow greater participation of women will, of course, be the one to have a name on it. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] But he who refuses will show his powerlessness so that he can be more open to the society in which we live. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u281	Thank you, Mr. Mohet. Mrs. Potter has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u282	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. There are few awareness-raising people who feel that there is no need to look for specific arguments for why parity democracy should also be ensured in decision-making processes. As is the relationship between the sexes in the population, so should the representative bodies. I'm pleading for that half-a-half relationship myself. On the other hand, it must also be said that the law we are talking about now is only a guarantee of the possibility of running. It is also possible for those who come to the polls to choose. So offering only one woman in the election and expecting her to be elected is not what it should be. There has to be a choice between women. When women are more in politics, they will not be seen as just a supplement. Because in politics, in the National Assembly, we are not about the adoption of the marriage of beautiful people, but about the adoption of the law by responsible people, because the law will not know what those who adopted it were like, but whether they were responsible or smart. The same applies to local decisions. The local environment is an appropriate environment for the enforcement of women in politics because it allows for the integration of public and family life. Essentially sooner than that - so don't mind. The comparison with the National Assembly for Local Elections is not exactly appropriate because I understand that my position is different from that of a young woman who has young children at home. So we need to know that we are now talking about local elections. The law, as it is said, has also accompanied the view that the quota envisaged should be amended because local communities are not yet ready to implement 25% of the quota. But what is interesting about all this is that the amended bill states that only two local communities, the Domžale Congregation and the Žirovnica Municipality of 193 were sent within the time limit. Now, where are those intense interventions, opinions, concerns, doubts, and I don't know what else? They're probably like that. [[...]] No, Mr. Pojbich, I don't need to blink, you know. The thing about politics is with the head, the thing about politics doesn't mean with other parts of the body. It is therefore necessary to stress one more thing and challenge another. To hell with this. On two occasions, colleague Barovic spoke about the comments of the legislative and legal service on a proposal for a law. In Article 2, the proposal or the comment of the Legal and Legislative Service was related to those letters which have one or up to three candidates on the lists. I am particularly honoured that the Local Self-Government Committee has adopted the amendment I have proposed and has approved this comment. And now, if we are talking about Article 4 - once again - the opinion of the legislative and legal service refers exclusively to the self-respected fellow Member - to the third and fourth paragraphs of Article 4 of the bill. This was the amendment of the LDS and then the government put an amendment to the amendment for other reasons, but acknowledged that the amendment of the LDS for the deletion of paragraphs 3 and 4 was justified. I would really ask you to see that the amendment of the Social Democrats does not bring any new category, but only follows what the government first proposed. That's why I'm pleading for you to back him up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u283	Thank you, Mrs. Patrati. Mr Gulic has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u284	Dear Mr President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Now that's how I'm gonna start. If society can't and can't do it, then help the country. It is now a matter of enforcing some quotas which in some normal situation would be totally unnecessary, whether for men or women. But it is clear to us all those who have ever worked in single-sex collectives that the worst is there, whether the collective is just a woman or just a man. It is best when things are arranged as they are in life. Then all this energy and all this diversity of views can be usefully used and brought a lot of wisdom. That's why the quotas. Until everything is set to say 50:50, 40:60, which is in some ways normal, so long is good that we have quotas and as high as possible are better at the beginning. I believe it is very comfortable to land on what is already in society and to legalize it. But with some effort, it could also be achieved that at the beginning it would be 25%, later 30%, 35%, and so on. I'm not really worried or afraid of women or men. But I fear incomprehensibleness, cruelty, ignorance and all that either men or women can do to this world. So I'm going to vote for a higher quota if it doesn't work at least to keep something. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u285	Thank you, Mr. Gulic. Mr. Saiovic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u286	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Dear Mr. Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! I think that this debate and this effort, which is being put into Parliament today, is going to increase quotas in some normal and correct direction. For, after all, such representation of men and women is also present everywhere in nature, and so, after all, is fair and evenly distributed. If we say that man is one of the most evolved animals, and if we go back along this chain, then we see that in all historical and philosophical developments these proportions are about the same, because it is these uniform proportions that have made it possible for humanity and humanity to eventually develop to that extent. I don't understand why women should be afraid of politics. That is why I will complement all of these, and I will gladly support the amendments, which increase their natural role. I think that today, when I was driving to Parliament, in the reports that in the Church of England, women could also be bishops from now on. That's what they say in the highest places. If some of these orthodox institutes recognize some of their errors that have apparently been cultivated over the centuries, and if I consider that last week I have read with joy the famous work of Da Vinci’s code, which some fear very much because of that guesswork, because they do not know what is in the picture of Jesus Christ for the apostles, then it seems to me that today’s debates and amendments are going in the right direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u287	Thank you, Mr. Sayovic. And Mr. Ficko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u288	Thank you very much. Now that we are talking about promoting greater representation of women, we must say that we do not encourage them to be elected more, but we are legislating or prescribing them to run. And that can sometimes be contradictory. I will point out in a very specific case when I have spoken to or talked to one candidate to run for local elections and we have already discussed quotas. At the time, in previous elections, she had not yet been prepared because of her circumstances, but she was prepared to do so in the next elections. But she listed one condition. If quotas are introduced, this is humiliating. In fact, voters may consider that it has been elected and acquired a political function only because of these quotas. She's not ready. Unfortunately, she's not ready to run. He's got his own thinking and his own reasons. So, personally, I would be much more pleased than many here inside you to see if other circumstances would contribute to the decision making of more women in the first place. Surely, then, they would also be elected to a greater extent. This would also mean a lot more to political parties who are boasting in their own way that they are doing it in some way. Unfortunately, the facts on the ground are different. You also see the opposition's representatives. Some hope to admit it, but others do not hope to admit that there will be problems on the ground. It is considered, however, that the options are open. Now, in whatever way anyone's explaining it, it's true that all women have up to 80% of them after this proposal. However, I would touch only a little more on the 4% that are so spirit-stricken even in today's debate, but in fact it is no longer necessary, since the government has adopted that amendment of the Liberal Democracy, which at this time follows the opinion of the legislature that the matter is not, as regards the procedures, correct and will be withdrawn. Of course, it was mentioned that it would be introduced at the first opportunity. The reasons have already been stated several times, but one still wonders why we are against this 4% signature. This introduces some proportion according to the size of the electoral unit. I'd even add a lower limit. We will have to talk about this because in some constituencies this change would mean even reducing the necessary signatures for the submission of candidate papers. However, it would be necessary to establish an absolute lower limit. That opinion of the constitutional judgment was also mentioned, which refers to unconstitutionality. If only a candidate needed more signatures than he needed to be elected. This is where I'd get into trouble. By the way, where does that come from? As many candidates as possible, a smaller electoral threshold is needed. Of course, it would be worth thinking about when that threshold was first set. That he was so low, the possibility of so wide a candidate, that he also achieved the required lower number of votes for election than for the submission of the candidate list. This was in the past on several occasions. They are also cited by the legislature. But that was in cases where 18 and 21 were candidates. Of course, they were not all political parties. They were such or different, bald at the front or bald at the back and thus had the opportunity to run. I believe that the effects of this law and the future with this 4% threshold of signatures will make some progress in this area of local self-government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u289	Thank you, Mr. Fick. This concludes the debate. In accordance with the timing of the meeting, we will decide on the amendments today in the framework of the half-hour vote after the end of the 17th item of the agenda or no later than 21.15 p.m. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 10. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law amending the holiday law and the work of the free days in the Republic of Slovenia. The draft law was tabled by a group of Members, with the first-signed Dr. Mark Pavli. With regard to this law, the Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons Committee proposes to the National Assembly that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. On the basis of the third paragraph of Rule 134 of the Rules of Procedure, I give the floor first to the representative of the drafters for further explanation of the bill. Here you go, Mr. Pavliha.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u290	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Allow me to combine the presentation as well as the position of our Group of Members of the Liberal Democracy as a result of time savings. In our House of Representatives, we believe that such important events as State holidays should not be a matter of political prestige, should not cause peripetions and competitions between us. The fact is that a group of our Members proposed October 5th as the most appropriate date for marking the accession of Primorska to the Republic of Slovenia. Remember the 1954 London Memorandum. The fact is that some Members of our House proposed August 17th as the most appropriate date for joining Prekmur. The fact is that we have also given the parental committee an initiative to introduce a holiday of the future, unlike any existing holiday that celebrates or marks the past. In fact, August 12th, which the United Nations celebrates as a holiday for young people. It is true that the history of dates is not uniform. If we take only a possible and possible date for the accession of Primorska or for the celebration of Primorska as part of Slovenia, there are at least 20 proposals. So it's very hard to decide what date is right. Whether it is a more appropriate sad event, such as the arson of the National Home in Trieste in 1920 or a joyful event, such as the Paris Peace Treaty on September 15, 1947 or the London Memorandum. But, as it is said, in the spirit of compromise, in the spirit of cooperation with the coalition, we have decided to listen to a government proposal that - I think - is still in the stage of the draft. We are proposing an amendment to the present bill, which would thus take over all the government's proposals. Instead of 5 October, 15 September as the date of accession of Primorska. Then 23.11. as the day of Rudolph Maister and finally 26 December as the day of independence and unity. Unfortunately, we find in the Liberal Democracy Club that setting dates is a matter of political prestige for the ruling coalition. Our amendment, which, after all, literally took on a government proposal, came across a deaf ear on the parental committee. Obviously, the coalition does not want to listen to the bill's proponents who have renounced their proposal and are willing to participate in the setting of dates with which all parliamentary groups would participate. However, the basis would, of course, be a government proposal, which we will briefly consider here. Apparently, the coalition forgets that it has repeatedly expressed its willingness to cooperate with the opposition, demonstrated and offered a hand. This time he obviously doesn't want to cut into the hand offered by the opposition. So that, of course, I would once again appeal that this is not happening in the future and that where we can overcome our differences, we can then simply become a single crew - as I have said several times - on a single boat for common passengers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u291	Thank you, Mr. Pavlich. With regard to this law, the Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons Committee proposes to the National Assembly that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. Representative, does the government want a representative on this point? He doesn't have a word. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Žnidaršič will first speak on behalf of the DeSUS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u292	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners notes that the interest in establishing additional holidays and working days is very high. In a short time, four proposals for laws came to the National Assembly, perhaps another one. Of course, there's nothing wrong with that. All proposals have their own positive and historical justification. When we read this and decide whether to support it or not, we would like to support all the proposals. But we are already at the summit of the European Union with existing dates and numbers. That is why we think that a deeper thought is needed and then a careful decision. Indeed, there must be some reason why the number of holidays stopped at about 15 in these 25 countries. Cyprus is 16, and then we are immediately 15. It's a fairly equitable proposition. That's why the decision is even harder. A reckless decision could have a profound impact not only on individual applicants but also on wider groups of people or on the whole of our country's territory. For this reason, DeSUS will not, at any given time, overwhelmingly support the proposal for a law, just as the committee has done with its decision to reject the law with one proposal. One holiday, this is next, with the first-signed Mr Sam Bevk, would be absolutely acceptable for us because the date proposed is accurate, with its rich and unique historical content of our single decision for a single country. Of course, if we supported it, it would hurt other unaccounted-for bidders. Therefore, we believe that it is necessary to take more time to perhaps find consensus - as it is - to say, in part, or to a rather acceptable extent already offers a government proposal which, perhaps with a minor change that we would support, could mean the level of consensus that would be best. It is said that it would be supported by a large majority of all Members or different political parties. In doing so, we reject the prestigious intentions of both governments and individual other proponents, and we do not think about it. We think we need an agreement on that. Also for the reason that this will probably be the last proposal when we add new days to the existing public holidays. Since the government proposal does not foresee working days off, we believe that this will result in the least economic damage, although we will be first in the EU in terms of the number of holidays and work days off, in short, at least after something. That is why we cannot support the marriage today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u293	Thank you, Mr. Znidarsic. Mr Srečko Hvauc will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u294	Thank you, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! I will focus on the proposal for a law that is under consideration today. So, I will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group on the proposal for a bill amending and supplementing the Act on holidays and holidays in the Republic of Slovenia: the first-signed fellow Member of Dr Pavlih and Ambassadors Majd Širc and Dar Lavtizar Bebler. The proposal foresees a new holiday in Slovenia – October 5th as a day of remembrance of the role of coastal Slovenians during fascist violence and the victims of World War I and II in Primorska. Following this proposal, a new holiday of work would be a day off. I think there is no doubt that Slovenian Primorska, Primors and Primorsa deserve a special memorial day because of their loyalty to Slovenia and the oldest antifascism in Europe due to suffering. There is no doubt that the 1954 anniversary of the signing of the Memorandum, with which Italy and the former Yugoslavia finally reached agreement on the delimitation to Zone A and B, is a very important date not only for Primorska but also for the whole of Slovenia. However, the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group will not support these changes. I'll give at least three reasons why our decision is so. First time. The proposal marks an important historical event, which concerns only one area in Slovenia, specifically Primorsko. We know that we have several important events in Slovenia that have had a significant impact on our destiny, but they are related to various areas in Slovenia. It's about Koroška. It's about Styria. It's about Prekmurje. Such an approach would mean that we may be doing wrong or neglecting some important events. It wouldn't be right in our own way. Another reason is that in history there have been several days that marked Primorska sad or tragically or negatively. Let me just give you a few. For example, on July 13, 1920, when a national home was burned in Trieste, or September 6, 1940, when it came to the execution of the base heroes, the above mentioned October 5, 1954, when the memorandum was signed, and September 15, 1947, when the Paris Peace Treaty was signed. Surely we would find an important day connected with the Tiger or the Warsaw movement or something else. It has also been mentioned that the profession offers a number of important events or dates that might be considered necessary to mark them in one appropriate way. All of this raises the question of whether the proposed date, October 5, is really the most appropriate one. In our opinion, it certainly has a greater historical and legal weight on September 15th, when the Paris Peace Treaty was signed. The third reason that is important not to support this proposal is to introduce a new part of the day off. While this is a nice proposal, we all want a lot of days off, but we need to be aware of the consequences. For several days, it also means reducing the competitiveness of our economy. This also means a indirect deterioration of the economic social situation of employees. Even after the number of holidays, we are already practically at a summit in the European Union. Only Cyprus has one more, that's 16 days of holidays. The other countries have much less. Germany 9 and Great Britain and Ireland only 8. We will not support the draft law because of all that has been stated in the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u295	Thank you, Mr. Hwauc. The position of the Socialist Group of Members will be presented by Mr Samo Bevk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u296	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A well-respected choir. Since 1997, there have been a number of proposals in the legislative process to amend and supplement the law on holidays and holidays. Due to the different concepts, assessments and views of the applicants on the level of importance of each event, legislative proposals were generally not adopted. Most of the proposals for amending this law relate to the marking of the accession of Primorska to Slovenia. However, individual applicants in all these years are not uniform in choosing the date on which they are to mark this day. The following dates appeared in the amendments to the law and in the debates or amendments tabled: September 15th. The explanation for this date refers to 15 September 1947 as the date of the entry into force of the peace treaty with Italy or the Paris Peace Treaty, on the basis of which Slovenia de facto joined Primorska and merged its territory. On 5 October 1954, when the Memorandum of Understanding between Yugoslavia and Italy was signed, the territorial boundary was definitively established as set out in the Paris Peace Treaty on 15 September 1947. July 13th. On that day 1920, the National House of Slovenia was burned in Trieste. This day also marks the beginning of long-standing violence against the Slovenian community and planned fascist disarmament policy. In March 2004, the coastal mayors and mayors responded to the conduct of the Italian Chamber of Parliament, which passed a law on 10 February on the threshold of Slovenia's entry into the European Union on the occasion of the commemoration of the victims of foyers and exodus of Italians from Istria, Rijeka and Dalmatia after World War II. The statement stated that they would like to draw attention to the suffering of the Slovenians under Italian fascism after the first world war and the National Assembly, proposing a similar measure to mark a lasting memory of the victims of fascist violence and war on Slovenians. On April 26, 1915, the Treaty of London was signed with which the Antarctic forces assigned Primorska Italy - or September 6th, when national resistances were shot at the municipality of Bazovica in 1930, or November 12th, because the Rapal Treaty, which legalized the accession of Primorska to Italy, was signed on that day in 1920. At the request of the Committee on Internal Policy and Public Administration, the Institute for Recent History submitted a summary report on individual important events for 15 September and 13 July as a possible date to mark the memory of the suffering of the Primors under fascism. The report shows that both events marked the recent history of the Slovenians. In addition to these six dates, a number of other proposals are emerging. Members of the Social Democrats were already co-proposals of the holiday law, which predicted as a new holiday on 15 September, the day of the entry into force of the Paris Peace Treaty. That is why we will also support this date. We regret, however, that the Government has not already taken the opportunity to amend the marriage proposal of our colleague Dr Mark Pavliha with the proposals of the holiday of the return of the Primorska home country, the Rudolph Maister day and the day of independence and unity, which is a substantive summary of our marriage proposal, the proposal of the Social Democrats, or that the home committee should listen to the proposer and formulate its amendment. In the Socialist Group of Members, we believe that the celebrations of new holidays, such as the memory of the suffering of the Primors under fascism and the return of the Primorska home country, the struggle of General Rudolph Maister for the north-eastern border and the day of independence and unity, must be acts taken by the National Assembly with the full consent of the parliamentary parties. In the Social Democrats Group, we are convinced that searching for suitable dates should contribute to integration, not to distinction and competition between different political parties and groups in the Slovenian space. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u297	Thank you, Mr. Bevk. The position of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by mag. Franz Capuder. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u298	Thank you, Mr. President. At today's meeting, we are again faced with the proposal to introduce a new holiday and work on a day off. In addition to the proposed holiday date, the working body was presented on 5 October by the drafter of the law with several proposals for holidays after all the business deadlines. We did not support these proposals in New Slovenia. We agree, however, that these things need to be handled in a comprehensive manner. Under the current law on holidays and holidays in the Republic of Slovenia, there are currently 9 state holidays, which are also all part of the day off, and 6 part of the days off, which have a religious mark. The arrangements in the Republic of Slovenia are still comparable to those in other European countries, where the number of days off ranges from 10 to 15. With regard to the structure of holidays across European countries, we can see that in most of the countries compared, most holidays are religious. In addition to the new year and the holiday of work, the holiday marking is limited to a country’s nationality to a day or two days. In Novi Slovenija we support the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which prepares more comprehensive changes or additions to the law on holidays and holidays. We agree that it is necessary to allow or support the possible introduction of holidays to be defined as part of the day off. From the point of view of labour law, it makes sense that the establishment of an additional holiday day always means a drop in working hours or an increase in obligations for employers, which reduces the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy. In Novi Slovenija we support the position of the parent committee and the law on supplementing and amending the law on holidays and working days in the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u299	Thank you, Mr. Capudre. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Stanislav Brenčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u300	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Given that the proposed bill amending the law on holidays and working days in the Republic of Slovenia introduces a new holiday, a new State holiday is a day off, we believe that the issue of increasing the number of public holidays as part of the days off is a matter for study. In terms of what is meant by an additional drop in working hours or a reduction in the number of effective hours per year and thus an additional burden on the employer for the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy on an increasingly aggressive, both European and global market. The Slovenian People's Party's Group supports the fact that the re-joining or return of Primorska after a dark period of planned dispersion of this hardness of the Slovenian environment is already marked as a national holiday. It is similar to listening to well-founded proposals relating to events related to the existence of a national being in other environments of the Slovenian home territory. Like Prekmurje. However, once again with the assumption that the number of annual working hours is not decreasing. In the Slovenian People's Party, we believe that the marking of events that mark the historical existence of our people cannot be the prestige of a political party and not of an individual Member, but the achievement of all social consensus with all the consequences. Therefore, it is only reasonable that such a proposal be prepared and submitted to the National Assembly for admission by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. It is true that something like this - as we believe - has to be achieved in this matter of some kind of social consensus, has tried to settle with the proposed amendment by the proposers, which should be the amendment of the committee directly, about an hour before the Committee's decision on this issue. However, in such a short time and at such a given time, it is only difficult to follow the content of the amendment tabled. It may reveal that according to its contents it is very similar to what the government is proposing. In this sense, as I am aware of - according to the scope of the draft government law tabled, it would be possible, after all, to do so with a single proposal in its entirety. But we need a little more time to do that. For study and meditation. Therefore, from this title, the Slovenian People's Party's Group agrees with the proposal for a decision submitted to the plenary by its mother's working body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u301	Thank you, Mr. Brenčich. The position of the Slovenian National Party Group will be presented by Mr Srečko Friend. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u302	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Dear colleagues of Dr Marko Pavliha and the Group of Members and Members have submitted a proposal that is worthy of all respect, and have written in explanation that the partisan struggle symbolised by the Battle of Nanos and the Mountain Front and the Battle of IX has been armed. Corps, for the Primors of a fundamental character, since it has merged this part of Slovenia with the mother parts of Slovenia. That's exactly why I'd like to say the following. In the Slovenian National Party, we believe that the Slovenian territory, which was fully liberated from its extreme borders in May 1945, is a century-old dream of bringing all Slovenians together. The fact is that this dream was for a moment realized and all the mountainous region, Trieste, was liberated. In Austria's Koroška, they even built a Slovenian honorary watch around the Duke's throne. Prior to that, Slovenia's Primorje with Trieste and Gorica belonged to Italy after World War I, which was confirmed by the Rabal Treaty. In Italy, there were 300,000 Slovenians who were abused by Italy. The Fascists put pressure on them, traveling by their names. Names changed for the dead, too. In short, there weren't any good days for this living in this part. The first was the establishment of the illegal organization of members of the organization Tiger. It was the seaside that first felt the anger of fascist violence. Therefore, in the Slovenian National Party, we believe that this day, when Primorska joined with Slovenia, should be a day to be celebrated by all Primors in a dignified manner. The government has already tabled in the parliamentary procedure its proposal for amendments and a supplement summarizing our proposal, which is the 15th of September, the return of Primorska to her homeland. That's what we suggested. In the initial phase, this proposal was rejected, but is taken into account in the current proposal by the Government. That is why we also want to support him in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u303	Thank you, Mr. Friend. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The proposal for a decision will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the assembly to be held today in the framework of the vote, which will begin half an hour after the end of the 17th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 17. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Decision on the selection of the Audit Society for the Audit of Accounting Statements of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia for the year 2004. The draft decision was tabled by the Committee on Budgetary Control and other public finances. I give the floor to the Vice-President of the Commission, Mrs Brady Pecan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u304	Thank you, Mr President, colleagues and colleagues. The Commission has examined or initiated a procedure for the selection of the audit firm for the audit of the accounts of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia for 2004. At its 9th meeting on 23 June this year, the Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on Budgetary Control and Other Public Finance addressed this subject as its parent work body on the basis of Article 31 of the Law on the Court of Auditors. This Article provides that the financial statements of the Court of Auditors shall be audited by an audit firm chosen by the National Assembly on a proposal from a working body responsible for the control of the budget and other public finances. At its 7th meeting, on 10 May 2005, the Commission adopted a decision authorising the Secretary-General of the General Assembly to carry out all the necessary procedures under the Public Procurement Act to select an audit firm. On 17 June this year, the Secretary-General sent a letter to the Commission in which he sent tenders which had reached the invitation to tender for the low value of the contract. In addition to the members of the Commission, the Secretary-General of the National Assembly was invited to a meeting on 23 June to decide on the proposal for the selection of the audit company, who had conducted a preliminary selection procedure with the co-workers under the provisions of the Public Procurement Act, which was applicable to low-value contracts. The members of the Commission received for discussion the following material: letter dated 17.6.2005 from the Secretary-General of the General Assembly on the initiation of the low-value procurement procedure of 2 June 2005, minutes on the opening of tenders of 16 June 2005. In the opening decision, the President of the Commission pointed out that the decision to initiate the tendering procedure provided for low prices that the only criterion for selecting the most favourable bidder was the lowest price. The opening minutes show that the most favourable offer is the one sent by Renoma. He therefore proposed that the Commission should adopt a decision proposing to the National Assembly that, for the purpose of reviewing the accounts of the Court of Auditors for 2004, Renoma should be appointed. During the discussion, the members of the Commission drew attention to the large price differences that arise in the tenders for the envisaged work. It was explained that the tenders were sent to some 40 audit companies and that they all received the same data. How they decide to determine the offer price is their decision. Following final consideration of the proposal for a decision on the selection of the audit firm for the audit of the accounts of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia for 2004 pursuant to Article 31 of the Law on the Court of Auditors, the Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for the supervision of the budget and other public finances adopted the following decision: The Commission for the supervision of the budget and other public finances pursuant to Article 2, paragraph 31 of the Law on the Court of Auditors and Article 112 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia shall propose to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to adopt the following decision: To revise the accounts of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia for 2004. Dear Members and Members! I suggest you take such a decision today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u305	Thank you, Vice-President of the Commission, Mrs. Pecanov. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group will be presented by Mr Rudi Veršnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u306	Mr President, respectable colleagues and colleagues! Audit of the accounts of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia shall be reviewed annually by an independent audit company. In order to revise the business in 2004, all audit companies that were registered in the register of audit companies at the Slovenian Institute of Audit were invited to submit a low-value offer. This is about 40 such companies. On this occasion, 8 tenderers submitted their bids. One offer arrived too late, so it was returned. By addressing 7 bids and also transmitting them to the Committee on Budgetary Control and Public Finance. 4 tenders received were made in approximately the same price range. The two tenders were significantly higher and one was significantly lower. According to the criteria of the most favourable price for the audit of the Court of Auditors’ accounts for 2004, the most favourable bidder is the company Renoma Audit and Consulting Company, d.o.o. In view of the above, we have also decided in the Slovenian Democratic Party to support the Commission's proposal to monitor the budget and public finances. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u307	Thank you, Mr. Versnick. The position of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by Mr Cyril Testen.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u308	Thank you for your word. Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament. I'll try to be very brief. In New Slovenia, the Christian People's Party, we will support the decision to select Renoma, the Audit and Consulting Society, Kamniška 125, Ljubljana, to review the accounts of the Court of Auditors for 2004. My predecessors have already told everyone that this is the cheapest society, that this is the only criterion, so we will support this conclusion. We are also disturbed by what the rapporteur said was that the price differences were so great. At times, however, we doubted the credibility of these offers. But we were clearly told that this is credible and that this is the cheapest society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u309	Thank you, Mr. Testen. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Kristijan Janc.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u310	Thank you very much. The Commission for Budgetary Control and other public finances considered this at its regular 9th meeting and also selected this audit company, Renoma. From the point of view of the Slovenian People's Party, the proposal for a decision to select an audit firm to revise the accounts of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia for 2004 was positive, as the procedure and the selection of the expert services of the National Assembly was adjusted and transparent, which called for many potential audit operators and chose the most cost-effective. This is Renoma, audit and advisory company, d.o.o., Ljubljana. We propose to the National Assembly that it also confirms this today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u311	Thank you, Mr. Janz. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There are no other reported debaters, so I conclude the debate. The vote on the decision will take place today in the framework of the vote, which will begin at 7.30 p.m. in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I hereby terminate this agenda item and interrupt the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 7.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u312	Dear Members and Members! We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. We are moving on to the end of the 1st item of the agenda - questions from Members and Members. Before we go to the vote, I ask Members and Members to check the functioning of the voting apparatus. On the right hand side of the card inserted, the orange light must be lit. In this case, a vote may be taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Matey Lahovnik, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the response of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Janez Janša, to the question of Mr Matey Lahovnik, on the implementation of the business strategies of the Capital Society and the Slovenian Compensation Society in 2005. We're voting. I note that there were 75 votes in favour of Members and Members, 27 votes in favour, 48 votes in favour. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of the Mag. Milana M. Cvikla will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the response of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr Dimitri Rupl, to the question of mags. Milana M. Szvikla on the establishment of a centre to help bring the European Union closer. We're voting. The vote is closed. I note that 74 Members and Members voted for 27 to 47. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the interrupted 2nd item of the agenda - by second reading of the proposed law on amendments and additions to the law on pension and disability insurance. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. I'm asking nicely for peace in the hall. I am putting to the vote an amendment to the 11th Article of the LDS Group. Note: The amendment is substantively linked to the amendment to Article 33; if not adopted, the amendment becomes irrelevant to Article 33. We're voting. I note that there were 75 votes in favour of Members and Members, 25 votes in favour against 47. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. This has made the amendment to Article 33 irrelevant. We decide on the amendment to the 24th Article of the Social Democrats Group. Note: If this amendment is accepted, the amendment under point 2 becomes irrelevant. We're voting. There were 75 votes in favour, 75 in favour of MEPs, 25 against 47. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 47.]] We vote on the amendment of the LDS Group to Article 24, paragraph 2. We're voting. 74 Members and Members voted for 26, against 46. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 46.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. As no amendment has been adopted to the bill, the assembly will, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, vote on the draft law on Friday, 15.7.2005, following the end of the last item of the agenda for this meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the draft law on working time and mandatory rest of mobile workers and recording equipment in road transport. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. Amendment to Article 2. We are voting on the amendment of Article 2 of the Social Democrats Group. We're voting. I note that 74 Members and Members voted for 28 to 45. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 45.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are voting on the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group to Article 10. We're voting. 76 Members and Members voted 29 to 47. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 47.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are voting on the amendment of Article 19 of the Social Democrats Group. We're voting. There were 74 votes in favour of the Members and Members, 28 against 46. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 46.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are voting on the amendment of Article 29 of the Social Democrats' Group. We're voting. 77 Members and Members voted 29 to 47. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 47.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are voting on the amendment of Article 32 of the Social Democrats Group. We're voting. I note that 76 Members and Members voted for 28 votes to 47. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 47.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. As no amendment has been adopted to the bill, the assembly will, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, vote on the draft law on Friday, 15.7.2005, following the end of the last item of the agenda for this meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Road Safety Act - a reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill in the context of a reduced procedure. As there is no amendment to the debate on articles and amendments, the parent working body has not adopted any amendments to the second reading, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. 77 Members and Members voted 57 to 18. [[The vote was 57.]] [[Against 18.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the proposed law on amendments and additions to the law on political parties - the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill in the context of a reduced procedure. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to table amendments in the third reading, so we are moving on to a decision on the law. In doing so, I inform you that the Government or the Legal and Legislative Service has not informed me that the law would be inconsistent. We're voting on the law. We're voting. I note that 78 Members and Members voted. For 75, against no one. [[The vote was 75.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 6th item of the agenda - this is the consideration of the proposed law on amendments and additions to explosives, the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill in the context of a reduced procedure. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to table amendments in the third reading, so we are moving on to a decision on the law. In doing so, I inform you that the Government or the Legal and Legislative Service has not informed me that the law would be inconsistent. We're voting on the law. We're voting. 79 Members and Members voted for 76 against one. [[The vote was 76.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 7th item of the agenda - this is the consideration of the proposed law on amendments and additions to the law on local elections, the reduced procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled. We are voting on the amendment of Article 4 of the Social Democrats Group. Note: If the amendment is accepted, the amendment to the amendment under number 2 and the amendment under number 3 shall become irrelevant. Mr. Ferry Horvath, on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u313	Yeah.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u314	Please, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u315	Thank you very much. I did not participate in a very numerous debate which opposed this amendment. I will support him and my colleagues and my colleagues will also support him and I will make the following additional arguments. Last week we were a delegation of our Parliament, led by colleague Robert Battelli, colleague Marinic and my little things, at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Washington. One of the important topics where a special report was also prepared on the 55 pages and a special resolution, which was unanimously adopted, was the issue of gender equality. And what is essential is first of all the information that it is in the picture of national parliaments that we are 35th place as a country between 55 Member States. If we look at regions, Europe and other regions, we are with the Pacific and Arab countries. And at the end of this report - and this is also reflected in the resolution - is that the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation will introduce quotas, namely 30% of female candidates. If this decision is not taken - the rules of procedure at the next assembly should be amended - then what is already in force in the Interparliamentary Union will be introduced, so that a national delegation can simply participate in the Interparliamentary Union conference if women are not represented. This highlights the emphasis that this distinguished international organisation, which Slovenia is currently chairing, gives to this issue. Even so, he's trying to regulate it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u316	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word on behalf of the delegation? Here you go, Mrs. Shirca.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u317	Thank you very much. We will support the proposed amendment as well as the other amendment. If this one is voted, the other one will be irrelevant. However, it is true that both seek the same goal, namely that the proposed law would not be merely or merely of a declaratory nature, it is said that it would not show any apparent affection for achieving better representation of women at local level, but would raise standards or at least return to where it was originally set, it is said to be a better starting point, which means a 25% threshold, gradually achieved until it reaches a higher threshold, it is said, 40%. Why is it important to support such solutions? Because we have taken many steps in this House in recent years. Not only have we changed the Constitution, Mr Jerovšek, who has given the opportunity to take all these further steps - because today it has been repeatedly said that nothing has been done. Far from it. With the greatest possible consensus, it is said, with almost 90% support, that we have changed the Constitution in the previous term, passed the European Elections Act or elections to the European Parliament and the Equal Opportunities Act, which gives us all political parties and all other public decision-making bodies the opportunity to make women as equal as possible and with certain limits on the highest possible threshold. In short, I repeat, these amendments and other amendments are more appropriate than the government's solution, even though the government's solution is in a certain part acceptable to all, as I have understood from today's discussion, that is to say, a solution that at least binds to the so-called hindrance and in some ways allows for greater emancipation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u318	Thank you very much. Anyone else, please, on behalf of the Group of Members? [[No, no, ……]] Anybody else want to explain their voice? Please, Mr. Gulic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u319	Dear Presidents, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! We are talking about serious matters, things that Slovenia is also showing its face to other countries, countries and peoples. I said earlier that quotas are just an instrument by which the state somehow corrects what society cannot.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u320	Excuse me, Mr. Gulic. I'd like to ask for peace in the hall and give the floor to Mr Gulic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u321	I will be very happy if we are still within this mandate or in any of the following quotas, because the social climate will be such that the gender will be equally represented not only in Parliament, not only at municipal levels, but also in all other life. Not yet, and for the time being, many would like to see women chained to stoves or women would like to see men only as looters in houses. That's how it is. That is why we are also here to raise the percentage of all women or men, it is said that we will come to some normal relationship in which both sexes will be able to demonstrate their qualities and work with some stability further. I think that is the goal, so I will vote in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u322	Thank you very much. Mrs. Zalockarov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u323	Thank you very much. I will support the amendment, as well as the next one, because it is true that this law represents great progress, particularly due to the enforcement of the retention of candidates and candidates on the candidate list. Of course, I find it totally unacceptable that we can't even take another step of greater courage, which would represent 25% of women's representation on candidate lists. According to my assessment, this percentage is realistic, because in the past term, in previous local elections, 21.2% was included in the lists, which means on average in Slovenia, which means that real progress would have been made if at least a few percent raised that threshold. Especially because the trend in our country in elections is getting worse, in fact, it is not increasing and because it is definitely the fact that the representation of women at local level is extremely low. Thus, at the moment only 13% of women in the municipal councils and only 11 out of 193 municipalities are elected in Slovenia. I think it is absolutely necessary to implement these measures, especially since the positive effects in the case of the European Parliament's electoral law have been well received in the Slovenian public and because the Members operating in the European Parliament, according to my assessment, have proved themselves to be extremely good at the debate today in this Parliament and which has repeatedly wanted to highlight some lower incapacity of women. I think this is also an opportunity for local level.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u324	Thank you very much. Mr. Anderlich, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u325	I came forward to explain my voice because I am embarrassed that such an underestimating tone is in the free debate at this amendment, because it is not by chance that today we are discussing equal representation both at the local level and at the same time at the same time. Just because this masculinity was so strong that it was necessary even this afternoon, I think we've been discussing it for four hours, stressing how women have every opportunity to take advantage of it, we let them do what is theirs. That's not what this is about. This law does not speak of women being able to participate in politics or in public affairs, but speaks of both sexes as having to be balanced in order to reflect as much as possible what exists in every society. There are women, there are men, and of course they have both the right and the duty to carry out public affairs. It is not surprising that Slovenia was among the first to place 40% of women's representation in candidate lists in its law before the European elections because at that time we all washed our conscience that what we see before Europe will show us in a better light than we are alone. Let us show today that we can do at home what we have shown Europe through the electoral law to the European Parliament. That's why I'm going to support the first and second amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u326	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mrs. Kucler.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u327	Thank you very much. The predecessor gave me a lead. Since we have already proved to be able to do so in New Slovenia, that is to say, to place women in the right places for candidacy and, last but not least, to have two Members of Parliament, I see no reason why this amendment should be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u328	Thank you very much. We are voting on the amendment of Article 4 of the Social Democrats Group. We're voting. I note that 82 Members and Members voted. 31 to 50. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are voting on the Government's amendment to the amendment of the LDS Group to Article 4. We're voting. I note that 79 Members and Members have voted. For 60, for 14. [[The vote was 60.]] [[Against the 14th.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We vote on the amendment of the LDS Group to Article 4. In doing so, I remind you that if this amendment is not adopted by decision, the amendment to the amendment of the LDS Group of Members under point 2 becomes irrelevant. Vote explanation, Mrs. Zalokar.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u329	Thank you very much. Throughout the debate today, it has been said that the government supports or agrees that a business error has been made in relation to an article that refers to 4% of the voters' signatures needed to place independent lists on the candidate list. In a way, this shows that the government, given that it has tabled an amendment to the amendment, is actually serious about this by raising the quorum to 25% or in the next 35 elections. This means that if the coalition of this amendment does not fully confirm that a joke on non-reality is actually being made and that it is indeed unwilling to correct the error that has been pointed out by the legislative and legal service. So I expect this amendment to be fully adopted now.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u330	Thank you very much. We vote on the amendment of the LDS Group under point 3. I note that there were 81 votes in favour, 76 votes in favour, and 4 votes in favour. [[The vote was 76.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted amendments to Article 4 of the amended bill. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table an amendment to this article? Please, Mr. Tanko, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u331	Thank you for your word. I take note of the assembly that the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party and New Slovenia will table an amendment to this Article in the third reading.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u332	According to your prognosis, I'm breaking this point. We will continue with it on Friday after the end of the last item of the agenda. We continue with the end of the 10th item of the agenda - second reading of the proposal for a law amending the law on holidays and holidays in the Republic of Slovenia. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: A proposal for a law amending the law on holidays and working days in the Republic of Slovenia, a second consideration, is not suitable for further consideration. Mr. Battelli, would you like to explain your voice? Please. On behalf of the delegation? [[Yeah.]] Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u333	With all due respect to the applicants, however, this date, which is supposed to be celebrated as a public holiday and which essentially relates to an international agreement that settled the issue of Zone A and Zone B of the free market territory and which has in fact covered only the coast or the county of Koper, Izola and Piran, what is supposed to be celebrated is actually the departure of more than 27,000 people from these places. Among these several thousand people also Slovenian nationalities and the rest Italian nationalities. Eight families were left in Cyprus. The only thing we can celebrate about this date today after my day is that 27,000 people and more were doing better. Thank you. I will vote in favour of the decision and against the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-12-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u334	Thank you very much. We're voting. I note that 79 Members and Members voted for 50, against 17. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 17.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the legislative procedure for the bill has therefore been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 17th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft decision on the selection of the audit firm for the audit of the accounts of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia for 2004. We are moving on to a decision on the next proposal for a decision. For the audit of the accounts of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia for 2004, Renoma, the audit and advisory company d.o.o., Kamniška 25, 1000 Ljubljana is selected. We're voting. 78 Members and Members voted for 71 against none. [[The vote was 71.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. I hereby conclude this agenda item and also interrupt the 8th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. Good night!
