ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, please calm down. Nice greetings to all, honourable Members and honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 10th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, convened pursuant to Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that they are detained and cannot attend today's meeting of the following Members and Members: Aurelio Juri, Roberto Battelli, Victory Jelinčič Trimeniti, Rudolf Može from 17:00 onwards, Maria Possonec, Matjaž Švagan for the start of the session and Villa Trofenik, also for the start of the session. I have invited the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Janez Janša to the first item, representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to all items of the agenda, the Ombudsman to the 22nd item and the President of the Council of Justice to the 23rd item of the agenda. I welcome all the present and move on to the establishment of the agenda for the 10th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The draft agenda is drawn up in accordance with Rule 59 of the Rules of Procedure and received by reference to the meeting on 14 October 2005. The draft agenda will be decided in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I have not received any proposals to withdraw the item from the agenda or to extend the agenda. Before we go to the vote, I ask Members and Members to check the functioning of the voting apparatus, namely, the orange light must be on the right hand side of the card. In this case, a vote may be taken. As I see, there are no comments and voting devices working flawlessly, so we are moving on to a vote on the agenda. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 76 Members and Members present, 72 votes against none. [[The vote was 72.]] [[No one.]] I take it the agenda for the 10th meeting of the assembly has been set. And with that, I'm adjourning the meeting. We will continue at 3 p.m. with the first item of the agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members. Please take your seats. Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving on to 1. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - IT'S ON THE QUESTIONS OF MESSAGES AND MESSAGES. In our round, I welcome the Prime Minister and all ministers. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received written notifications from 31 Members and Members within the time limit. The order of business shall be laid down on the basis of an agreement with the Heads of Parliament in accordance with Article 244(2) and Article 245(2) and Article 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The first three questions raised by members of the opposition and the Member of the ruling coalition's question to the Member of Parliament will be answered by the Prime Minister. Then the Minister of Finance, Dr Andrej Bajuk, will answer the parliamentary questions raised at the 8th and 9th meetings of the assembly, to which he did not respond due to his absence. Members who have submitted two questions will ask the second question after all the Members who are registered ask one question. Members shall have three minutes to ask the question. The Prime Minister and the Minister shall answer the questions within five minutes at the most. The same is true if the question is raised by several ministers. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask an additional question. Members, I ask that you pay attention to this. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be presented by the Member in two minutes and the reply may be completed for a maximum period of three minutes. With regard to the application of the questions sent, I would like to inform you that Mr Bojan Kontič has raised a question of local importance, which is why I have referred it to the competent minister on the basis of Rule 243 of the Rules of Procedure, who will draw up a written reply. In accordance with Rule 240 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, Ambassador Franz Kangler and Ambassador Zalokar Orazem have amended the issues announced, and they will be referred in writing to the competent minister. On this point, the following ministers apologized for today: Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Mrs Marija Lukačič, Minister of Economy, Mag. Andrej Vizjak, 17.15 a.m. Foreign Minister, Dr. Dimitrij Rupel, from 6 p.m. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the questions raised today, the Prime Minister or the Minister must provide him with a written reply within 30 days, which will be published in a bulletin of the National Assembly. A Member who has asked a question which has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral answer. In this case, I will place the question at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. You have received a review of the questions sent and initiatives which have not yet been answered in the course of business. Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving on to a presentation of the questions before us, as has already been said, the first four questions will be answered by Prime Minister Janez Janša. The first question will be asked by Mr Saša Pece on behalf of the Slovenian National Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u3	Your Honors are here! Mr Janša, I ask you to take the question that I am going to ask you in two layers and try to answer it as well. For the first time in the light of Styria's assistance, in particular assistance to the city you have visited in the past and around which you have launched a large media rhompom, and for the second time in terms of preventing the administrative laziness of state administrators or employees who delay individual projects by going to the detriment of citizens and citizens in our country, which is a disaster or unacceptable. Also unacceptable is your laziness towards this kind of behavior of government officials. Mr Janša, you and the entire government team visited the city of Maribor a while ago, as I said. With great media monitoring, expectations were high, and promises were also high, but unfortunately nothing has been achieved until today, except perhaps a few denationalisation procedures, solely in favour of the Roman Catholic Church. You promised so much more. People in Maribor believed you at the time, but unfortunately, it turned out to be just another "agiprostity" move, or some would call it public relations. Allow me to ask you the content of the question, which I believe would enrich Styria, the city of Maribor and the wider area of the city. Some time ago, on a proposal from the Slovenian National Party, the Assembly of the Western European Union achieved in 2002 that they had confirmed the location for the construction of the institutional museum in the Republic of Slovenia or, rather, in Styria near Maribor in 2002. Furthermore, the Slovenian national parties have carried out all the procedures necessary for such an institution in the country; therefore, we are talking about an international institution that would in any way bring us not only reputation, visibility, but also macroeconomic effects. The National Party has achieved that we have included the budget line for the implementation and financing of this item in the 2004 and 2005 budget. I must point out, however, that despite the strong lobbying by France and Germany, it has only managed to keep the intended location in our country, the Republic of Slovenia. At the same time, I would like to point out that the matter would have both fiscal effects and employment effects and monetary effects. According to the Defence Committee of the Assembly of the Western European Union, this institution is expected to employ around 400 active jobs and up to 2000 short-term or long-term people from this project. I ask you: Why hasn't the government of the Republic of Slovenia implemented such a project that lies in your hand? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u4	Thank you, Mr. Pechet. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u5	Thank you so much for asking. As you yourself said, the first initiatives in this direction took place in 2002. What happened in the last few years is hard for me to answer. The fact is that the current government has listened to this initiative in April, and it has set up a working group to explore the possibilities for the implementation of this project. The decision also assigned the Government to this working group the task of drawing up the design of this museum or project, assessing the feasibility and acceptability of the project and collecting other documentation and examining the circumstances under which it could be decided. Representatives of the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Defence shall participate in this coordination. The proposer of this initiative is also invited to work. You probably know, too, that the government in this decision has set a deadline for the working group to prepare all of what I was talking about on November 15th. This will be soon after this deadline has expired and when the government receives the report of this working group at the table, there will also be circumstances for further decision-making.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u6	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Pece, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u7	Let me comment. I find it very irresponsible of the Prime Minister to say what was before my term, but I don't care if you weren't in this country. However, I would like to further highlight the content of the question. Look, it's true that the government has taken a decision this year to support the idea of the Slovenian National Party, but that's what's sad. You seem to think that the government is made up of only you and only ministers who take decisions. So, the next step, the implementation of this Decision, Mr Janša, is that, unfortunately, you have not yet realized that it also belongs to one, in my opinion, of the basic tasks of the executive branch. And since the case here has not moved forward, the criticism of the Slovenian National Party is intended to do so. According to our assessment, any responsible Prime Minister should know what happens to the implementation of his conclusions, whether they are implemented or not, or whether they are lagging behind and, as we know, we have taught you today, in fact, the conclusions are not being implemented. At the same time, allow me to emphasise, at least in my opinion, a very important fact for which it would be nice for the Slovenian government to learn it or take it for granted. This kind of activity of your civil servants - if we assume that you are the Prime Minister and you are - shows an ignorant attitude towards you, Mr Janša, if your decisions are not enforced. But what is much worse at a given moment is that such officials, who would help our country, Styria and the city of Maribor, would easily mock the work of Slovenia. In this regard, I ask you: Is the problem because of the planned location in Maribor? Is that why you are so indifferent to this issue? All I expect from you is that you say that you will tell these government officials - whoever you trust, you have appointed to these people - you have asked them to do the task which are already based. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u8	Thank you, Mr. Pechet. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u9	So I'll tell you again about those who didn't hear it for the first time. In its decision, the Government has set a deadline for the preparation of this Working Group's report for 15.11.2005, this deadline has not yet expired, I expect the report to be prepared by then and that the order received by the Working Group will be carried out. Until then, it is wrong to condemn people for failing to do their job because the deadline has not yet expired.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u10	Thank you, Mr. President. The second question will be asked by Mr Ljubo Gerič to the Prime Minister on behalf of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Here you go, sir.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u11	Thank you. Dear Mr. Prime Minister. The reason that I am referring this issue to you and not to the Minister of Health is that the protection of health at government level is nowhere in the world entrusted to only one ministry, to the Minister of Health, to which other ministries and governments share responsibility in various ways. While this fact has also been confirmed in a very unusual way by you when you, in charge of the future development of the health system and the health reform, did not trust the Minister of Health, but the economist Dr. Michu Mrkaic, Chairman of the Health Committee on the Reform Committee. You obviously thought that for health reforms he was a more suitable person than your minister and vice-president of your party. However, Dr. Bručan, Minister of Health, decided to privatise operators in the health system after the wild privatisation process itself. This is done without the consent of all major partners in the healthcare system, and I am primarily thinking of citizens and citizens. This is contrary to his statements at the beginning of the mandate when he stressed that his decisions would be based on dialogue and the search for consensus, but this forgetfulness is not the first in the work of your government. The decision on 100% privatisation announced by the Minister in his interviews, although there is no basis for such a fateful decision in any strategic document, is privatisation itself. This is the privatisation of health policy. We're flying on a voluntary basis, in a way we could call it, "We'll see what happens if it's flat, there'll be a shovel, if it's spiky, and there'll be fairies." The decision of Minister Bručan to grant the concession to Dr Mark Bitenc, which is not a programme that an individual could perform and would be responsible for, but is a work of a hospital or hospital team, is a major step over a edge that can be tolerated. Experts say that such a way of privatisation cannot be found anywhere else in the world and that it is an unclean and legally questionable model that destroys the existing network of health services. At the same time, your reform holder, Dr. Mrkaič, warns that it is the same mistake as the SOD and the KAD by selling Mercator shares. In both cases, it is a business without a public invitation to tender, according to which it smells like customerism and billions of damages to taxpayers. Mr Prime Minister, I ask you: What is the position of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the way to privatise, in particular in the area of hospital health carried out by the Minister of Health, Dr. Bručan? On the basis of what strategic document did the government decide to privatise Bručan’s activity in the healthcare system? Do you agree and support the procedure of Minister Bručan in granting the concession and work programme to Dr. Mark Bitenc? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u12	Thank you, Mr. Germich. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u13	Thank you very much for that question. I think there is some fundamental misunderstanding between the notion of privatisation and the award of concessions, because the award of concessions is something that has been regulated in this country for a long time, with legislation that this government has not changed. The Health Activity Act specifies that public health services are carried out by public authorities, as well as other legal and natural persons, on the basis of a concession granted. The procedure for awarding concessions is laid down in Article 42 of the Act, so that the concession for the provision of public service in basic health activities - it is said, at the primary level - is awarded by a decision of the municipal or municipal administrative authority responsible for health, with the consent of the Ministry responsible for health, which gives only subsequent consent here. The mode of concession in other health activities - is said to be at a secondary level and, if I have just found out, your question relates to this level - and by a decision of the Ministry responsible for health. The law further stipulates that both authorities must also obtain the opinion of the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance and the competent chamber in the decision-making process. Such is the procedure that this government and this current Minister of Health have not changed. If we look at how concessions have been awarded so far, then the data show that the most concessions at the primary and secondary levels were awarded by 2000, together close to 1,000 of these concessions, so we cannot possibly talk about the current minister starting this practice. In 1994, 1995, and 1996 - over 100 concessions awarded each year. In the previous mandate between 2000 and 2004, these concessions were slightly lower, at secondary level 29. Thus, at the time of his term of office, Minister Bručan received approximately 150 outstanding applications to the Ministry of Health, of which about 50 were related to the secondary level. The Ministry of Health has conducted the entire award procedure in the same way as in the past, following the same procedures, in accordance with the legal procedure, following consultation with the management of public institutions. Given the decision of the Ministry of Health to allocate additional resources for the expansion of the public health network at the primary and secondary levels during the annual extension of health programmes in 2005, it was also possible to take a more active approach to the resolution of multi-annual applications for several years. In this way - I think we all agree - it certainly increases the accessibility of citizens and citizens to health services. The most effective removal is the grey low-care area with healthcare providers and increases programmes that reduce waiting periods. These are also basic guidelines that the Ministry of Health is trying to implement by granting concessions. From what I have said, it is very clear that the Ministry grants concessions under the law in force, which has already been tested in practice. The government has not been defined and will not be defined until individual concessions are granted because they are carried out in accordance with the procedure laid down in the law and legal protection is the same in all cases.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u14	Thank you, Mr. President. Would you like to complete your answer, Mr. Germich? Here you go. Complementary response. Yes, there you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u15	Thank you very much for your answer, Mr. President. Of course, I am not satisfied with your answer, because you have not replied to me about the government's strategy in this area and I am sure that the government does not know which direction the health boat is heading. We have a paradox: on the one hand, Minister Bručan is handing out pieces of the highest professional, educational and health institutions in the country, in order to encourage others to join the process, thereby triggering a process that can lead to the destruction of health homes and the breakdown of existing hospitals and thus to a significant reduction in the efficiency and quality of the health system. On the other hand, we have a proposal for reforms, which states in its measure 56 that the privatisation of hospitals will be introduced gradually, pilotly and under appropriate supervision and the Chairman of the Health Committee on the Reform Committee, which reveals to the Minister a savage privatisation without economic analysis, without indicators of the effectiveness and quality of the changes introduced; the award of concessions is referred to as "bruchanisation of concessions", "bruchanisation of Slovenia", which causes injury to taxpayers, since the Clinical Centre has waived its concession and thereby reduced its assets at the expense of the private sector, which is a member of the Board of the Institute and at the same time the Ministers of Counsel, which is directly linked to conflicts of interest. In doing so, it can be agreed with his claim that the shortcomings described are not a case, but a reflection of the personal interests and preferences of the Minister. Therefore, Mr. Prime Minister, I ask you: Can you make it clear whether you support your Minister's privatisation concept? And: Do you agree with Dr. Mrkaič's position, which calls for the cessation of "bruchanisation of Slovenia", to stop the injury of taxpayers and to call for the resignation or dismissal of the minister? So, who are you going to replace, the president, Dr. Mrkaič or Dr. Bručan? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u16	Thank you, Mr. Germich. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u17	I therefore suggest that all those who have difficulty understanding the role of the reform committee read the material of this committee, which has been published on the government's websites. There are also very precise explanations of the powers of this Committee and the members designated by the Government by the decision, so that I would not take up this high assembly of time by listing what is commonly known. As for the concessions granted and the indications that the current Minister of Health is selling the health system, let me say again that until 2000 only over a thousand concessions have been awarded by that Minister, or by any other minister from any of the current government parties, and that only 46 concessions have been awarded to new operators on a secondary level this year. So much for comparison. This award takes place on the basis of a procedure that has been in force for a long time, and in our view it is right to grant concessions in such a way as to reduce waiting periods, waiting periods and to allow equal access to health care for all citizens and citizens as far as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u18	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Germich, do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u19	Thank you for your word. Since I have not received an answer as to whether the government has the exact way and concept of privatising hospital health, in accordance with Rule 246(2) of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that the State Assembly decide to hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u20	Thank you. Mr Germić's proposal to hold a debate on the Prime Minister's response at the next meeting will be decided by the State Assembly in the framework of tomorrow's vote. The third question for the Prime Minister will be put by Mr Miran Potrč on behalf of the Social Democrats, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Dear Prime Minister! There are many reasons for clarifying the effects and consequences of completing denationalisation. It was an important change in ownership structure in Slovenia. The law is the only case of 100% recovery of all obligations in Europe, and also the Strasbourg court confirmed the decision in Germany to return after a very steep degressive scale. In addition, there is now talk of the simultaneous accelerated return of property to the Church and at the same time promises the Church to subsidise, exempt taxes, 100% coverage of contributions to the pension insurance of priests, while at the same time talking about reforms that should significantly reduce the necessary resources and costs of the country; in short, there are many issues that may be included in this package. And since taxpayers and the public have not been informed for some years, I think it would be good for the government to get an answer to the next question. What is the total value of all the assets that have been returned by law to the beneficiaries for denationalisation? How much of this common value was returned to the Roman Catholic Church? How many beneficiaries who do not have a permanent residence in our country? What are the obligations of the State which will have to settle in cash in the future, and are these funds covered in order to avoid the need for a new burden on taxpayers? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u22	Thank you, Mr. Run. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Now the questions have been very specific, and some of the answers can be similar. What is the total value of all the assets that have been returned by law to the beneficiaries for denationalisation? According to the data of the ministries, the total value of the returned assets is EUR 1 billion 426 million, and this is the total value of the assets, calculated on the basis of almost 40,000 applications submitted by 2005. It is impossible to answer the question of how much of this value group was returned to individual beneficiaries, since no statistics were established at that time to allow the records to be kept by category of beneficiaries or to determine whether they were returned to beneficiaries who do not have a permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia. You must understand that if this record has not been established in the 12 years since the law was implemented, it has not been possible to establish it either since you asked the question. What are the obligations of the State which must be settled in the future, and will these obligations directly burden taxpayers? Now, according to the Slovenian Indemnity Company, it will be necessary to issue an additional EUR 398 million of bonds, but these bonds are not intended to burden directly taxpayers, are being paid or are being transferred from the Slovenian Indemnity Company and the Slovenian Indemnity Company was established precisely to cover costs through the work of privatised property. These are, for the time being, information that can be provided in the response. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u24	Thank you, Mr. President. Would you like to complete your answer, Mr. Potsch? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u25	Thank you. In particular, with regard to the last reply, Mr President, I would like to ask for an additional reply in relation to the obligations of the Slovenian Compensation Society. For I know or believe that the government as a shareholder knows well the last report that was sent to us, Members and Members of the National Assembly by the Slovenian Compensation Society. This report makes it clear that, with this year’s Slovenian Compensation Company is already in its capital and is reducing it to meet its obligations, it will be fully exhausted in 2010, as expected by 2015, by around 150 billion Slovenian Tolars. According to the Slovenian Compensation Society, this is a serious material obligation that has not been covered so far, and I am particularly interested in how this obligation will be covered, especially because the order of 150 billion is approximately 8% of the state budget in one year, and this is also the extent of the resources that the Reform Commission wants to redistribute existing funds in one way or another and ensure faster development and greater prosperity for Slovenia. Are you also counting on this obligation of 150 billion tolars in this reform, is it not foreseen, or is it intended to cover itself in some other way? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u26	Thank you, Mr. Run. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u27	Well, due to the total obligations of the Slovenian Compensation Society, we cannot rule out the possibility or the need to recapitalise the company. Decisions will have to be made in the coming years, but it is not compulsory for a compensation company to issue bonds only in the denationalisation process, other obligations and the information I have referred to relate to denationalisation obligations.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u28	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Potch, would you like a procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u29	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Prime Minister, I note that the questions or unanswered answers in this regard are enough to make it useful and correct for the National Assembly to conclude, in relation to Rule 246(2) of the Rules of Procedure, that it will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the whole of this issue and will eventually develop some guidelines for further action. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u30	Thank you. Mr Porč's proposal that the State Assembly hold a debate at the next meeting on the Prime Minister's response will be decided by the State Assembly in the framework of tomorrow's vote. We are moving on to the fourth question that will be posed to the Prime Minister by the mag. Franc Žnidaršič on behalf of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u31	Thank you, Mr. President. Honourable Prime Minister, ministers, colleagues and colleagues. The government has named [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] The concept of economic and social reforms to increase the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy. [[..]] The government's decision to encourage a broad public debate on the proposed reforms is the right way, as only open and constructive dialogue will lead to the best solutions and consensus that Slovenia needs to make the necessary development breakthrough. For the sake of the general public of the Prime Minister, I ask: Why do these reforms and what effect does the government expect from them? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u32	Thank you, Mr. Znidarsic. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u33	Thank you so much for asking. In general, the reasons why the government launched the debate on this package of economic and social reforms are double. Firstly, it refers to the fact that these processes are taking place throughout the European Union, Slovenia has been a member of the European Union since last May. At least the data of the last ten years show that the European Union, as a whole, is losing its fight against the competition of more competitive environments in the global world, which has led to certain strategic decisions, is a key element of the Lisbon strategy, which is why the whole of the European Union wants - a real space, part of which we ourselves - to improve our competitiveness, to ensure faster economic growth and greater employment. At present, almost 20 million unemployed across the European Union, indicating that the Union is not fully capable of responding realistically to the challenges of globalisation without being able to exclude wider social shocks. So Slovenia is part of this area that is being reformed, and this is, let's say, an external reason why we also have to take some reform steps. But there is an inner one. When Slovenia joined the European Union, it is first compared in this family. As long as we compared ourselves only with the candidates, we were at the top, as we compared ourselves with the countries that originated in the territory of the former Yugoslavia or in the Western Balkans, we were at the summit at all. Now the situation has changed a lot, we have agreed on real comparisons, including within the European Union that is reforming, are countries that are significantly more competitive, not only more developed than we are, but also countries that, based on a larger, better than ours, continue to develop faster. This shows that Slovenia, as long as it does not take some reform steps, is also losing its competitiveness battle, which in the coming years can mean not only stagnation, but a significant deterioration of the living environment, the standard and all that we cannot have if we do not have economic growth, which is the only basis for prosperity. So, at this point, Slovenia is still in a position where it is possible to decide on some even more radical reforms without tightening the belt, without drastically reducing the social level, without going into restrictive measures and saving because the basis is still relatively good. If we delay another year or two, this foundation will deteriorate and then reforms will be even more inevitable by implementing them in difficult circumstances. As a result, now is the right time, even strategically, after Slovenia enters the European Union and into NATO outside, we also have some significantly stronger comparisons, criteria, standards and virtually no more excuses to postpone these steps. Of course, whenever it comes to changing some stable relationships, it takes a lot of energy to do so; but once again, I stress that circumstances are relatively favourable at this point, which may not be the best situation for someone who wants to prove that it is necessary to reform at this time, because maybe the dark clouds are not yet seen, they are not fully seen. But if Europe was already able to assess the situation in 2000 and adapt, I think Slovenia should also be in 2005 [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Simply capable. [[...]] However, we want to carry out these reforms in a consensual way, so we have also started the debate, and we have not only decided on a simple legislative procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u34	Thank you, Mr. President. At the 8th and 9th meetings of the National Assembly are Members of Happy Friend, Dušan Kumer, mag. Milan M. Squeakl and Franc [[Ferry]] Horvat asked the Minister of Finance, Dr Andre Bajuk, who was not present at the meeting. Since the Members have requested an oral response, they will receive it today, the Minister will first answer Mr Happy Friend's question regarding the closure of the Sezana casino. Mr. Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u35	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members. Member Srečko Friend raised an oral question at the 8th regular meeting of this National Assembly on the award of concessions for the development of special gambling in gaming salons, on the closure of the playing room in Sežana and on the role of the company Luna park d.o.o., Sežana for the award of the concession. Let me say that I have already answered this question in writing. The Member of Parliament has asked me to do this orally. And here's the answer. Special gambling in gaming salons can only be arranged by companies which have a concession to carry out this activity. The granting of concessions and its extension shall be decided by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in accordance with the law of free discretion, taking into account in particular the following criteria set out in Article 8 of the Law on gambling: "the saturation of the offer of gambling in the country or local community and the balance with the offer of neighbouring countries, the provision of harmonious, optimal and sustainable development of activities, the impact on the social, cultural and natural environment and the individual, the extent of the adaptation of gambling in terms of complementing the offer of tourism, the experience and references in the development of gambling games and the number of concessions awarded, the ownership structure and the management staff of the legal person, the activity, business, the conduct so far, the financial ratings of the legal person or persons associated with it, the impact of the granting of consent on the operation of the legal person, the fulfilment of the tax, concession and other public funding obligations by the legal person and its owners, the consequences of exercising of the supervision under the provisions of this law and the second instance of the award, and the award of the award of the licence." Subject to these criteria, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia decided at its 29th regular meeting on 15 June 2005 to reject the request of Rebus d.o.o. Ljubljana to extend the concession to arrange special gambling in Casino Corse Sežana. The concessionaire did not meet the criteria for the fulfilment of tax concession and other public financial obligations, which is clear from the data of the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia and the auditor's report on the audit of the accounts carried out. With regard to the situation and the current treatment of the role of the company Luna park d.o.o., Sežana for the award of the concession for the Louna Sežana playroom, we note that the proposal for the award of the concession at the 47th meeting of 16 December 2003, I repeat, on 16 December 2003, were addressed by the government boards of the Republic of Slovenia for national regulation and public affairs and the Committee on the Economy. The Government's Committee on State Arrangements and Public Affairs proposes to the Government to adopt the proposed decision and issue the award decision, as presented by the Ministry of Finance. However, the Committee of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposed not to grant concessions for the economy. Until the Committee’s hearing after December 2003, the activities related to this award of the concession had not continued. The role of the company Luna park d.o.o., Sežana for the award of the concession for the Louna Sežana playroom is under review. Certain questions were raised and certain documentation was requested. The deadline was also specified. The deadline expires today until, before lunch, when I rechecked, we have not yet fully received this data. Following the completion of the application with data for the current period, a proposal for a re-examination decision will be drawn up on committees or on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u36	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Lucky Friend, would you like to complete your answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u37	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear ministers, Minister of Agriculture, as is usually not, and so is her greeting. So, failure to comply with the legal requirements is certainly a condition for closing up a casino, here I agree with you, Minister-respected. However, as you know, this concession initiative, which is why I once again asked you this question at the closing of this casino, was signed by three mayors. This is a guarantee for the sustainability of the development of the municipality and yet Luna, which has an economic ownership structure behind it, could be suitable for the award of this concession and you have not done so. On the contrary, when you talked about this saturation, you awarded a concession to another Styrian company that opened a casino with a concession on this area. Dear Minister! Where's the principle first? Second. Why don't you let a three-charted building supported by capital, standing like some concrete sculpture in the middle of town, complete and employ 70 to 80 people? Three municipalities would have a sustainable resource to develop their infrastructural and other tourist facilities. However, as you yourself have said, the Committee on the Economy has not confirmed this in the previous government. In your first reply, however, you wrote that you would certainly reexamine this and that you would be able to grant a permit or grant a concession. The concessions are still open, so please reconsider this matter and allow the company which is in mixed economic composition to start operating. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. Friend. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Let me just say it again. In fact, the role of the company Luna Prak d.o.o., Séžana was submitted that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia did not consider it at a regular meeting, namely on boards, in December 2003, that the two committees dealing with the matter had reached different conclusions, from each other; that the government had not decided at that time; that we had rejoined this company, requested certain additional data and materials, and that we had also set a deadline for them to do so, and that is 24 October 2005 - until before lunch there were no such ones, I cannot answer you. The fact is that, like any such one, I would say, the role of the Ministry of Finance's professional service is being reviewed and also proposed by decisions, and will also be made in this particular case.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u40	Thank you, Minister. Mr Kumer's question will now be answered by Mr Minister, which concerns the exchange of leadership in companies whose co-owner is a country. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u41	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Also at this same meeting, Mr Dusan Kumar asked us, in our opinion, questions about the issue raised at the Constitutional meeting of the Bank's Supervisory Council, as well as the answers to the specific questions raised, which are within the competence of the Ministry of Finance. In this regard, let me say that the constitutional meeting of the Bank's Supervisory Board was conducted legally and in accordance with the general acts of the Bank, according to the information available. The Chairman of the Bank's Supervisory Board, Mr Tomaž Toplak, immediately informed the Bank of Slovenia in accordance with the provisions of the Banking Act and the results of the meeting and interviewed the Governor, Master Mitji Gaspari with the Administration of the Bank. Their group's assessment was that the Bank was operating in a stable and smooth manner and that the Bank's Supervisory Board should carry out procedures for the establishment of the Bank's new administration. The President of the Bank's administration, Mr Aljoša Tomaž, decided at the constructive meeting of the Bank's Supervisory Board for an irrevocable withdrawal, and the A Bank's Supervisory Board had to be defined until the resignation of the President of the Administration and, as a result, to take decisions related thereto. The mandate principle for the appointment of administrations, as defined in the statute of the Bank, gives the President of the Administration the right to appoint other members of the Board of Supervisors who are not approved by the A Bank. This fact has already raised the issue of the status of the other two A Bank Board members at the constitutional meeting of the A Bank Supervisory Board and has been resolved in a manner that has ensured continuity in the management of this institution in the period leading up to the establishment of the Bank's new administration. Individual definitions or reports as to which of the members of the Bank’s Supervisory Board has ever made a statement before, during the meeting, after the meeting, I would not like to comment. However, for further specific questions, I would say the following. The claim that supervisors are instructed by the State to leave their species in companies without professional grounds is certainly not true. While several exchanges took place in the supervisory boards during this government's term of office, in most cases they resulted from the expiry of mandates in individual supervisory councils, which is also the case in the Bank. There was no suspension of leadership in Abanka either, as Mr Aljoš Tomaž was not suspended, and Mr Aljoša Tomaž himself offered an irrevocable resignation. As far as the second question is concerned, I'd say the following. KAD and SOD are operating on the basis of the 2005 business plans that clearly define their current obligations. They are responsible and responsible for the implementation of business plans in both companies. The managing authorities in both companies, in the case of the SOD, are the Management Board and in the case of the KAD are the Supervisory Board and the Assembly, have been appointed by the Government after the expiry of the mandate of the previous members. Those decision-making bodies shall be independent and independent and shall, in accordance with the principle of a good master, decide on important business events in individual companies on their own initiative and in accordance with the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u42	Thank you, Minister. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u43	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr. Secretary! I have asked you three very specific questions to which you have listened specifically, but you have answered other questions than I have asked you. That's why I'm asking you again. Whether it is unusual or even scandalous that the Supervisory Board in imperfect composition - of the seven members and members - were present four - were present at their constitutional session, where they are only being established on the same day at night or at night to suspend the bank's leadership. Since this is a new supervisory board, I ask on the basis of which business assessments, analyses, etc. Was this pressure such that the bank's management gave up? This game has already been performed by our old acquaintance, this is the first man of the Capital Society, Mr. Toplak, as you mentioned. In doing so, it has clearly and effectively demonstrated that it is primarily acting as political director in this context. I'm going to quote his statement right after the meeting of the Supervisory Board. I quote: "The leadership of the Bank is being resolved because the decision to sell the shares of the Bank to the National Financial Society has not been politically verified," the end of the quote. It's not made up, that's what Mr. Toplac said after the session himself. It is, therefore, credible evidence that there is and works customerism, which can also result in corrupt actions to the political summit itself. I therefore ask once again; you, when you were an opposition Member, in these matters and in these problems, have also been pushing the table vehemently in this National Assembly, now you have the opportunity, when you are a minister, to prevent me from doing the same. So I ask you to in some way prevent such actions and services.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u44	Thank you, Mr. Kumru. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The meeting of the Supervisory Board was convened in accordance with the law and in accordance with the rules of procedure. It was final and also acted in accordance with the rules of procedure. I do not have any report, and in addition to certain statements made by such and other actors with no report, in order to ensure that there is no non-compliance with the legislation alone and with the rules of the institution. But the fact is, if a man accepts your assumption that the President of the Board was expelled or removed under pressure, then he can follow, logically, this statement of yours. However, I insist on my position: no one has removed the president of the administration, and he has resigned himself irrevocably. As far as I'm concerned, I'd say again, other statements, such or otherwise, or, which have appeared in the media, I don't really know them, I've heard them, and I've read what you said at the time, but I don't want to comment on them. A statement I've never been a witness to, and I don't want to comment.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u46	Thank you, Minister. Now the Minister will answer the question of the Magi. Milana M. Exercisel on the public financial sector's debt. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u47	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Member of the Commission, in your question, you have stated that the deficit in the first half of this year is already 81 billion dollars and that it is likely to be twice by the end of the year, close to 3% of gross domestic product, and will threaten the goal of taking the euro. Let me answer that over the course of the year the deficit is not growing proportionally, which is certainly familiar to you personally, but depends on the dynamics of income and expenditure. The revenue dynamics are the strongest in the second half of the year, especially in the last two months, which has led to a higher deficit in the past year and then to a decrease in recent months. The impact on the higher deficit in the first half of the year also has an impact on the dynamics of expenditure. Interest payments make the most of this because the majority of interest on 90 % of foreign and 60 % of domestic debt is due in the first half of the year. The government budget deficit, liquidity, was indeed over 90 billion dollars in June and then fell to 76 billion in August and was only 69 in September. Therefore, there is no concern that the target set for a deficit of 92 billion dollars will be exceeded by the end of the year, as foreseen in the budget adopted in this National Assembly, and at least to jeopardise the euro's takeover. You also asked what the Minister of Finance would do on the revenue side. According to a dynamic projection of the budgetary revenues and the revenues achieved in the first nine months, revenue will not be lost on the revenue side. There won't be a drop in revenue. In some categories, there has actually been some failure, but in other categories we have realised surpluses, so that we do not expect a drop by the end of the year in the global income side, it is only possible to make a certain outflow from the EU, which is largely planned for the end of the year, and it is also necessary to stress that some of these expenditure is deliberately linked, so that in this case also expenditure will not be fully realized and such a possible situation will not affect the deficit. With regard to your question about changes in tax legislation, which is not supposed to increase the competitiveness of the economy. Since late Friday afternoon, there have been proposals for amendments to tax legislation in this National Assembly. We believe that these changes, even partial ones, actually increase competitiveness and that in such a short time we have done everything or propose that everything possible and in accordance with the macroeconomic objectives of the Republic of Slovenia should be done before entering the euro area. With the other changes, we will not rush until all the analyses and results have been completed, clearly showing what is the most favourable option from a macro-economic and, in particular, a public financial point of view. As regards your comment on the resources for Dars, the resources in the budget, which will decrease and consequently additional debt to Darsa, have already been provided to you by the Ministry of Transport, and we have also had some discussions in this period since you asked a question, including certain discussions in the working bodies of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u48	Thank you, Minister. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go, Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u49	Thank you very much to the Minister for a number of answers, however. Mr Minister, on your website you predict that the deficit of the state budget will be 2.4 or 150 billion at the end of the year, because it is also necessary to take into account the debt of the pension health allowance. Together, we both know the data, the current loss of European funds according to plans 59 billion. The municipalities, on the basis of the law we have adopted in this National Assembly, can be directly indebted for 30 billion and for an additional 300 billion to draw on European funds. And Dars is right that you mentioned him, and here we say, in a few weeks he will come to the National Assembly for an additional billion euros or 240 billion debt-taking guarantees. If we add this up a little bit, there will be additional pressure on taxpayers' pockets during your less than a year's term of office, either directly or by paying Darsu tolls or paying interest on Darsu's debts to the circus for $600 billion. Mr Minister, you boasted on Saturday at a local election preparation meeting that this year the principal will increase by 10%, that the budgets will be increased by 4.5%, which is strong through nominal GDP growth. I know it's been hard to close the budget, but as Minister of Finance, I'm asking you: Is the debt of more than 600 billion, and in less than one year of your mandate, the correct way of closing public finances? I'm afraid it's not, and after 15 years we're back in Yugoslav debt. We owe our children and their children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u50	Thank you, Mr. Squeakle. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Your Honor! You mix up some data on what the implementation of the 2005 budget is, which was your question. And while your opinion is flatly presented and strongly irresponsible, as regards the 2006 budget, which I hope we will have a very broad debate in this National Assembly, let me just say that I am pleased that you are following my speeches, and above all in the countryside I see that you have your rapporteurs, and that you are still doing this faithfully, but they have not explained to you what this is really about. At a serious meeting in Laska, I explained to people working at local level what was adopted in the 2005 budget rebalancing. In the 2005 budget rebalancing, this National Assembly adopted a proposal that was drafted by the government and sent for consideration to this National Assembly, that the principal actually increased 9.8%, compared to what was happening in 2004. It is also well known to you personally and in this National Assembly a part has already been discussed in the working bodies, that the government is proposing in the 2006 and 2007 budget to also increase principals by 4.5% in 2006 and an additional 4.5% in 2007. Let me also say that this is the principle of this government's position that it is absolutely necessary to strengthen local self-government, in such a way that once and for all we begin to trust our own people, this is the implementation of the principle of subsidiarity, which this coalition is still committed to. But I'd like to ask you, all those of you who count so quickly and get to about 600 billion to do it more responsibly. The Slovenian state is currently really at the threshold of decisions to enter the euro area. All of us, the whole society, are still trying so hard to do this. Such comments, which have been made in this way, certainly do not help anything. I'm ready for any serious discussion. To such calculations, quickly made, without every basis, I don't think I have to answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u52	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Squeakle, do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u53	I am very pleased that the Minister of Finance is ready to discuss integration, because I think this debate is necessary. I therefore propose, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 246, that Members and Members of the ruling coalition, together with us, support the Ministers' proposal. Let us hold a debate in this national assembly on what the plans of this government really are. With regard to numbers, and so allow me to base this procedural proposal, but of course the matter is very clear. Dars will indeed be in charge of one additional billion euros or 240 billion. The municipalities will indeed be indebted to an additional 300 billion and it is undoubtedly clear, Mr Minister, that the current deficit we are achieving in relation to the European Union is at least 13 billion and that there will be a loss of revenue. Since we are both aware that there are not a number of legal obligations in the 2006 and 2007 budget, because, for example, in the ruling coalition, you have not adopted a law on social transfers and you need to find an appropriate financial structure to find an additional 5 billion, I propose to Members and Members that, at the time of tomorrow's decision, we decide to hold a debate in this National Assembly on the Minister's response to my question. I think there have also been some additional questions today to see what the Slovenian state is up to. The data on the Ministry of Finance’s website suggests that the estimated debt or deficit is up to 2.4 billion by the end of the year. If you, Mr Minister, in less than one year stop the pressure of 600 billion or 10% of gross domestic product, after the previous finance ministers have succeeded from 1994 to 2004, due to restrictive action on the expenditure side to maintain a debt of less than 30%, the concern of Slovenian taxpayers and taxpayers is, of course, high. 600 billion is 10% of gross domestic product and comes from proposals either proposed by the Minister of Local Self-Government or proposed by the Minister of Transport. I would even agree with you when you spoke at this meeting of presidents or members of the NSI if you were the Minister of Local Administration, but you are the Minister of Finance. Finance ministers have the task of limiting their colleagues in their budgetary wishes or appetites to debt. Therefore, I propose, Mr President, that you include my procedural proposal tomorrow in the debate and we will see, when we decide, whether, in fact, it is for all of us in this National Assembly to discuss how the Minister of Finance has made it possible or allows for additional maintenance of up to 600 billion in less than a year of his mandate. And these are, of course, funds that are worth seriously discussing.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u54	Thank you, Mr. Squeakle. On the proposal by Mr Cwickel to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance to his question of the delegation, the State Assembly will decide in the framework of tomorrow's vote. Mr Bajuk, Minister of Finance, is also responsible for responding to Mr France Ferri Horvat on the situation of the state budget vis-à-vis the EU budget and for assessing by the end of the year. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u55	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We have also sent a written reply to honourable Member Franz Ferri Horvat with additional tables to his question, what is the situation of the European Union's withdrawal and payment of funds and payments in the European Union's budget. In the first nine months of 2005, Slovenia received 48.6 billion tolars from the EU budget and paid 52.5 billion tolars. Compared to the 2005 budget rebalancing, the realisation of revenue was 41.9% and the realisation of expenditure was 71.8%. In August, Slovenia first recorded a positive monthly net position relative to the EU budget, amounting to 11 billion tolars. EU budget revenues amounted to 16.1 billion tolars, representing more than a third of all EU budget revenues in 2005. In the EU, however, the budget has been paid for 4.8 billion SITs. The first revenue from the Cohesion Fund of 1446 million tolars was also adopted in August. The deficit in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia relative to the EU budget was cumulatively minus SIT 2.2 billion. In September, Slovenia received only 4 billion tolars from the EU budget and paid 5.7 billion tolars. The monthly net position was thus minus 1.6 billion tolars. However, the cumulative deficit increased by 3.8 billion tolars. In September, Slovenia first received funds for the Schengen border, amounting to 226 million. The main revenue over the whole period, i.e. SIT 19.5 billion or 40%, is the means to implement the common agricultural policy. 16.8 billion tolars were received for flat-rate reimbursements, representing 35% of all funds received during this period. In 2004, 3.9 billion tolars were paid out of the European Union’s structural policy lines. So far, 1.8 billion have been reimbursed in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. This year, 4.1 billion tolars and 18% of the current budget were paid out of structural policy items. The paying authority, the Minister of Finance, has received claims for SIT 352.9 million for reimbursement in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for SIT 238 million, representing 1% of the budget in force for 2005 of the planned structural policy funds. Let me also say that as regards so-called overtimees in 2005, based on these data available to the Minister of Finance, we have recorded 17.6 billion in the area of structural funds in 2005 and 10.1 for the Cohesion Fund. The Republic of Slovenia will certainly receive all the revenue from flat-rate refunds, which is the last year that we receive, that is 22.2 billion and a large share of the funds for agriculture. However, the projected surplus of 42 billion will be difficult to achieve in the 2005 budget rebalancing. We certainly will not achieve this, but we hope that the net result will be positive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u56	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Horvath, would you like to complete your response? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u57	Thank you for your word. Mr. Secretary of Finance! First of all, thanks for a very precise response, including with up-to-date data for the month of September, although the data themselves are not encouraging, given that the cumulative deficit, as you say in your reply, increases to 3 billion 880 million tolars with September. So let me ask you a question. I'll be happy to have a complete answer. What does the Ministry of Finance intend to do in the framework of its competences and, above all, what does the Government intend to do in order to draw more effectively from the European budget in the future, in order not to be net payers this year and, above all, in the coming year, instead of being net payers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u58	Thank you, Mr. Horvati. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Your Honor! This is one of the biggest problems we are facing, and this is the drawback of funds from the EU. Surely we are not satisfied with what we have achieved so far. Let me just say that this can in no way be any relief, but of all candidates, Slovenia still has the best result as far as this is concerned, but far from what is necessary. The fact is that the pumping system in our bureaucracy is very complicated, it's a inherited system that we haven't changed because it was thought to be pointless to fix, but we tried to use it in every way by actually using those goals that we set ourselves. What's the government doing so far? We have weekly meetings between ministers responsible for this area. Certain movements have already been made. We think it will finally be known by the end of the year. And I would say myself, as far as your question is concerned, with the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance. The Ministry of Finance is a payment authority, only a payment authority, but under the law on public finances and the law on the implementation of the budget, the Minister of Finance has certain responsibilities and responsibilities that I intend to carry out in the coming weeks, if necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u60	Thank you, Minister. We are moving on to questions of Members and Members. First, Mrs Cvetka Zalokar Orazem will ask the Minister of Health a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u61	Thank you so much for saying that. The bird flu is at our door. Panic is neither good nor necessary, but it is essential that citizens and citizens are well informed to ensure that all measures are ready. In recent days, the situation in the field of information has improved, but a number of past negative experiences, such as the emergence of mad cow disease, dairy affairs, illegal imports of meat from China, do not affect us and the public to trust in the work of certain institutions. This is where I especially refer to the Veterinary Authority of the Republic of Slovenia. Unfortunately, today the Minister of Agriculture is not in Parliament, but I hope that she will respond as soon as possible to the many questions that we have written to her today regarding the work of the VURS. It also seems strange to me that the Minister for Agriculture, who is responsible for the veterinary field, has not performed public service once before. I ask the Minister of Health about the bird flu the following. We have a very strong pharmaceutical industry. Are you thinking, Mr. Minister, that maybe the state would co-finance our pharmaceutical industry's own research into developing a potential cure for pandemics? Have we been looking for suppliers and have we already discussed this with pharmacists at home and around the world about this future drug? How will we share such a medicine and will such a medicine as tamiflu need to be paid? Are national crisis plans prepared in the event of severe infectious diseases in relation to hospital beds in relation to health personnel? Let's remember the last flu epidemic problem. We will have and how many pressure rooms will there be, and not only in Ljubljana but perhaps elsewhere in Slovenia? How much is in stock in Slovenia at this moment of breath masks?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u62	Thank you, Mrs. Zalokarev. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u63	Thank you so much for asking. Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I will talk more about the bird flu itself when I answer another similar question because it is more about the answer to the bird flu itself that concerns that question more. The questions raised here are of a more technical nature, so I would answer them directly. As a member of the European Union, Slovenia is also preparing for a potential flu pandemic that can be caused by any revised flu virus, but no one can tell, nor will this flu ever occur and which virus will cause it. However, the fact is that we are preparing ourselves on the basis of expert opinions and want to be adequately prepared when the pandemic occurs. The preparation also includes the national stock of the corresponding amount against viral medicinal products. Slovenia will receive a tamipula from Roche’s drug manufacturer. We ordered the medicine for 25% of the population, which is as much as optimally recommended by the current global health care organization. In doing so, I must say that at the meeting of the Ministers of the European Union last week in London, this number was not even confirmed by the World Health Organisation, which I think is 25%, nor directly rejected. In any case, this number is currently being taken as the optimal coverage of the drug population. Most countries with Tamiflu are relatively few, and now it has 2 or 3% coverage. These 25% of the medicine will be distributed according to professional criteria, or 500 thousand units. Anyone who needs the medicine will get it for free. According to our information, the pharmaceutical industry in Slovenia does not plan the production of antiviral medicines. Even if it were, such a procedure would take an extremely long time, so we could not use this medicine for some time in Slovenia, i.e. medicines that would have been produced in Slovenia itself. Roche is currently negotiating with some other countries around the world for implementation, to license this medicine, thereby significantly reducing production time and the possibility of purchasing. The Ministry of Health is preparing a preparedness plan for the flu pandemic, which identifies key tasks and measures in relation to the various phases of the pandemic. The plan is divided into details in some areas, such as epidemiological and virological monitoring of cooperation with international organisations. In some other areas, however, details cannot be made because they need to be complemented in relation to the epidemiological situation, according to the characteristics of the virus, according to the recommendations of international organisations and others such as the World Health Organisation and the European Center for Disease Control. Health plans also provide for an appropriate organisation which, in the event of an epidemic, allows more patients to be admitted, increases the number of beds for such patients, increases the number of beds intended for patients with influenza, and some activities are terminated or reduced during this period. The plan of the Clinical Center, for example, provides for additional beds for patients with influenza at an orthopaedic clinic. The plans also take into account that a certain part of the employees will become sick and also provide for indirect solutions for this. With regard to the issue of pressure rooms, however, I can say that they have drawn up a plan for a pressure room at the clinical centre, but this project is not implemented and will be implemented in a short time. We need such a space for some highly infectious diseases, but not for the flu pandemic. In the event of a pandemic, it is also necessary to adequately protect healthcare professionals and other exposed persons. Protective masks and clothing are ordered by health institutions themselves, but we also have some protective equipment available in state supply reserves if the institutions themselves do not have enough of this material in the event of a pandemic.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u64	Thank you, Minister. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u65	Thank you very much for your answer, I think also on behalf of the Slovenian public. But I'm interested in something else, or I'd like to make up for what you've said. In most cases, European countries are hiding their true origin by means of Tamiflu and are very different from the country to the country. We have it right now, if I've got it right, about 2,000 boxes. This was reserved for emergency needs at the last shipment. We're supposed to get a few thousand at the end of November, all the rest next year. I am interested in the following: Did you agree at this last meeting of the European Union Ministers with one of the European countries to give up your species or supply us and help us deliver tamiflu if this is urgently necessary in Slovenia before we have this delivery deadline for most medicines in the coming year? I am also interested in the last division of tamiflu. In fact, the stock went missing in two hours. Will you, as minister, monitor who received this last shipment of Tamiflu and whether this medicine has really been distributed in accordance with the rules of the game or the rules of the field? I think that these things can happen again in the future, they can be extremely sensitive to people, and I think they need to be clear, because in two hours they certainly didn't just get the drugs that they really needed. And please tell me again: Do you know how many protective masks there are at this point? Is it just some guess that, as it is, and as far as where it is, something in health homes. Finally, the director of VURS replied very similarly that there is something, but the people on the ground say they have no safeguards. But they're gonna be the first to get hit by vets, not doctors. I think the vets will be on strike sooner.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u66	Thank you very much for these additional questions. As far as hiding EU countries are concerned, I must say that some countries do not provide data, while some provide data. At a meeting of ministers recently in London, we agreed to try to ensure 3% coverage of the largest number of countries with Tamiflu in the next two weeks. Once again, Tamiflu is not a convincing medicine for the treatment of avian influenza pandemic. However, in any case, some data show that it is. And since such data exist, it is necessary to ensure certain safety of the population and, above all, to reduce the possibility of the spread of the pandemic. Tamiflu is more important for reducing the spread of the pandemic than for treatment alone. Although it is also important and necessary for treatment. As far as these 2,000 units of medicine are concerned, which is now in the reserve for eventual protection, if there is an epidemic or infection, I must say in particular that 6,000 more have been ordered, that we will have 8,000 of these units in stock in a short period of time, which is five times higher than last year's total use of this medicine. It is clear that there is more to be expected this year and that this increased number is also the case. Selling or issuing these 1,000 units of medicine that has recently been made - it must always be given on prescription - but we can comment differently. I hope this moment that they really got this drug compromised by doctors. In any case, we will briefly check how many prescriptions have been issued after unnecessary. Since the actual need to issue a prescription, other than those compromised patients, is called immunocompromised patients, there is no need to take this medicine now. The question is whether we are negotiating with a country in Europe behind the Tamiflu. We have agreed on such a decision throughout the EU for such an agreement as I said before. Perhaps a few more words should be said about vaccination, but in another part, when there is more time. In any case, I would like to say that vaccination against ordinary influenza is very important and in Slovenia the vaccine for this type of vaccination will be provided from the second week forward.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u67	Thank you, Minister. Mr Janko Weber will ask the Minister of Transport a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u68	Thank you for your word, President. Nice greeting, Mr. Secretary-General. During this year's operation, we can see that it does not have exactly the right attitude towards infrastructure, especially when we look at this relationship in terms of interference with petrol tolls and tolls, as two of the best sources for the construction of a motorway cross or highway system. In the 2006 draft budget, the gas toll spills on state roads have made a major contribution to the profitability of the highway programme, which is extremely important precisely because of the construction of the remaining roads, which are also linked to the motorway programme and thus connect those areas through which the motorway will not take place. Thus, this measure has reached a great foreigner in the area of motorways and I hope to claim also on the construction of state roads. The other problem that opens up is the toll problem. At the beginning of its term of office, the government has been very vehemently predicting that the introduction of vignettes is the most appropriate toll system. It is only on the basis of an analysis by the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for macroeconomic analysis and development, which produced an economic study or study of economic justification for the provisional introduction of vineyards, that the introduction of vineyards such as tolls in Slovenia is not economically justified. When considering the 2006 budget, I still observed, especially with the Minister of Finance, that there is not exactly a problem of what kind of toll system we will have in Slovenia during this transitional period until the introduction of the electronic toll system. I therefore ask you, Mr Minister: What will be the direction or policy of the Ministry of Transport in the collection of tolls until the introduction of an electronic toll system, and what do you really expect from the electronic toll system? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u69	Thank you, Mr. Weber. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u70	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Members and Members of Parliament! Thank you for the question, Mr Janko Webr. The Ministry of Transport has already repeatedly pointed out in various documents that the logical development of the toll system in the Republic of Slovenia sees it as its gradual closure of the road system, taking into account European guidelines on the fairness of charging compensation for the use of certain roads, the impact of road traffic on road infrastructure and towards sustainable transport development. As it is known, in February 2005, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia decided to entrust the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development, which is an independent institution of the competent authorities and institutions in the field of road infrastructure, in cooperation with the Ministry of Transport, to examine in an expert manner the economic feasibility of the temporary introduction of vignettes to the introduction of an electronic toll system in free circulation. The analysis, as you yourself have found, was concluded in April 2005 and showed that the imposition of the blame is not economically justified. I will not discuss the wrong political decisions in the past and the lack of respect for the opinions of the profession here, but I am afraid that, in the event of disregard from the professional point of view of the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development, they would be able to repeat the error by jeopardising the national programme for the construction of motorways themselves. Nevertheless, I would like to emphasise the following about the possibility of introducing vignettes. First time. The analyses and calculations of the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development have shown that the transitional period until the introduction of the free movement electronic tolling system would likely be more than a year. Despite the apparent simplicity, the solution to the introduction of vineyards is legally and organisationally complex, so that the vines could only be valid in 2007 in the event of a decision to introduce them. At the same time, the costs of introducing vignettes would be relatively high. Another time. The analysis also showed that the introduction of vinjets could be very risky. In order to ensure the continuation of the construction of motorways in the Republic of Slovenia, vignettes should raise as much money as they would with tolls. The purchase should in no way jeopardise the repayment of existing loans hired to build motorways. Taking into account the 2006 and 2007 government draft budget, which significantly reduced the budget for the construction of motorways, the potential negative buy-back would jeopardise the assumptions themselves and the continuation of the construction of motorways, which would require Dars to be indebted under substantially changed conditions and deadlines for repayments. It could also be complicated in existing contracts with domestic and foreign financial institutions where the toll is defined as a source of income for the repayment of credits. Third time. An additional complication in this case would also result in unpleasant negotiations with the European Commission. Because of their time frame, they are very stimulating for frequent users of motorways, while at the same time completely contrary to European principles, at which tolls must reflect the cost of road transport. The application of vinjets does not respect the principle that the user pays as much as he transports in terms of payment after a mile. Drivers who would buy an annual vineyard and who rarely use motorways would thus subsidise frequent users of motorways. Finally, let me stress that the final vision and objective of the toll system in the Republic of Slovenia is certainly the introduction of electronic tolling in the free course of transport, where the user pays according to the principle of the route transported by the end of 2008. I would add this information to the fact that two public calls for pilot projects are currently under way, namely for the two systems recommended by the European Union, namely the so-called system via satellites and the other so-called system via microwave technology, and when these two pilot projects are completed, which will give some conditional results, which will indicate which direction the state of Slovenia should decide on the choice of a future toll system that will fully ensure the closure of the motorway system in Slovenia, then we expect that the answer will be given to which direction Slovenia will decide. Finally, there will certainly be a discussion in the National Assembly, as well as correct information. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u71	Thank you, Minister of Transport, mag. Christmas. Mr. Weber, would you like to complete your response? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u72	Thank you. I would also like to draw attention to a response that has not been given as to what is yet expected of the electronic tolling system itself. Indeed, there is another dilemma that is evident both in Darsa's statements and in the Minister himself. However, it is all about this direction that the user should pay as much as he transports. This, of course, is the right direction. However, problems arise when congestion occurs on the highway, when it comes not only to paying, or not only to pay that kilometer that you're transporting, because if you're transporting it in one day, of course, it's far from what the toll you're paying for using the highway would allow. Dars argues that it is not justified to reduce the toll or to waive its charging in the event of congestion, and in the previous discussions and replies, the Minister has provided the possibility that a differentiated tolling system may also be introduced when the new tolling system is introduced in order to take account of the congestion problem. Although, I will say, I am more inclined to think that Slovenian motorways would also be free and transportable even with the greatest traffic, of course, taking into account good transport also of the other main roads, but if not, I wonder whether it will be possible to take account of the user's indisposition with the tolls.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u73	Thank you, Mr. Weber. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u74	Thank you very much for the additional question. I would explain, of course, in my replies I gave most of these explanations, as you have yourself commented, Mr Weber. The question of the so-called "road pricinga" is an eternally current topic. It is likely that in the coming year, if this proves necessary, we will proceed in a modified way of paying the toll if this proves to be more effective in terms of traffic congestion itself. The differentiated toll system is certainly one of the transport policy measures that will have to come in the future, even at the end of the weeks, weekends and even on leave very large, and of course also in the regulation of traffic density and traffic congestion, which can be said to be very different from what is happening on similar systems around us in neighbouring countries, Italy, France, Spain and Germany, last but not least in the countries of Eastern Europe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u75	Thank you, Minister. Mr Franz Jazbec will ask the question of the matter of the Minister for Environment and Space, Mr Podobnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Minister for Environment and Space. I ask you: Is the Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia responsible for the environment and the area responsible for the action in the event that the investor does not take into account the consensus which was permitted under construction. On 29.7.2004, a proposal was submitted to the Environment and Space Inspectorate, the Celje Regional Unit, for the translation of the conditions of the building permit. In 2001, investors obtained a building permit for the construction of a one-family house. After the construction of the house in 2004, at the edge of their plot, a half meter above the public road, they installed a drain pipe from which the water flows directly to the public road and from there to the yard of the neighbouring house. It follows from the building permit issued to the investors by the administrative unit Celje that construction is permitted under the conditions of the location documentation and data of the project documentation, as well as the consents issued, inter alia, by the Public Enterprise pipeline sewerage, ILO - the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for Nature Protection, as water management conditions and water management opinion. It follows from the above agreement that waste water investors must be brought into a watertight imprecise well and meteoric waters from the roof through sandstones into a surface drain or a watertight sink. Following repeated interventions to the Environment and Space Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia, it replied only on 9.8.2005 that the verification of such infrastructure by their inspection services is not competent or is transferred to the inspection services of the local community. Since we disagree with this answer or disagree with it, I believe that it is contrary to Article 153 of the Buildings Act, I ask for a more detailed explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u77	Thank you, Mr. Jazbec. Mr. Squirrel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Your Honor. In preparation for the answer to your question, we have obtained the following documents. This is a very specific question. So the document is a single building permit, the second document is a water management agreement, the third is a water management opinion and the fourth is the consent of water-channelling. We also obtained a decree on the care of drinking water and on the decommissioning and cleaning of municipal waste and precipitation waters in the district of Stora. It is clear from your question that you received an answer from the Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia for the environment and space after multiple interventions on 9 August this year, with which you were not satisfied, so today as a Member you are orally asking this question to me as a minister. Allow me to present this answer to you as well. The competence of the construction inspector is based on the law you are quoting, as well as Article 153, which you are quoting, is the law on the regulation of buildings, that supervision or the construction and use of the building is carried out in accordance with the building permit issued and used. That's what the law says. You're asking me if the investor in construction doesn't take into account the consensus that was the basis for the building permit. Thus, the basic document is a building permit, and it also refers to these agreements in its provisions, so that there is no misunderstanding. Therefore, the applicant was informed by a description of the inspectorate on 9 August of the specific inspection procedure imposed against two investors on a proposal from the notifier for removal of meteoric and fecal water from the house. In this inspection procedure, the following findings were made: that the residence of the two investors in question was built on the basis of a single authorisation issued by the Management Unit of Celje on 5 April 2001. I wouldn't go through all the building inspector's findings right now. From these findings - this response was prepared by my colleagues at the Environment and Space Inspectorate, we must say - that investors were building according to the existing building permit. Therefore, in view of the above, there is no basis for the construction inspection to be carried out. Finally, you ask again who is responsible and can act in the situation that has taken place in this case. In the current decree of the Municipality of Storé on the supply of drinking water and the disposal and cleaning of municipal waste and precipitation waters, this decree was adopted in 2000, and the municipal municipal public road inspector exercises control over the conformity of the decommissioning of these waters. On the basis of this Decision, if the obligations set out in this Decision are not met, for example, one such obligation is to clean a well, such a citizen may also be punished under such a decision. This is the answer that I have given you to your question, but I have not provided in more detail all the views that have been recorded in the information by the Inspectorate. If you want, I can do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u79	Thank you, Minister. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, now you are more than reading what the Inspectorate has given you. And I'm complaining that the facility is not built according to a building permit. According to estimates or according to the construction law, however, it is the responsibility of the Republic inspector and not the municipal inspector. The facility is not constructed in accordance with the building permit issued, because not all consent, not even the ILO consent, is not taken into account, nor is there a technical takeover or the issue of a usable permit.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u81	Thank you, Mr. Jazbec. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u82	Thank you very much. It is a very specific matter, but since the Member has opened it, it is necessary to clarify it once again. I've been very familiar with the matter. I got all the documentation in two days, which was possible because on Friday we got the question. I must say that the applicant in this case is Mr Jazbec himself, and that they were investors who are named Gejšek and the procedure was carried out. Let me recapture here the opinion that the Inspectorate gave me, and I have no reason not to believe them. But if you feel otherwise, you have to prove it in the process. As specified in the building permit and in the water management agreement, Gajšek’s investors built this well, where they also have all the sewage from the apartment house. The cliff is located at a site 30 metres away from the site of Mr Jazbeca Circe. And given the situation on the ground, there is no way that the water from this well will flow to the facility owned by Mr Jazbec, because between the building owned by Mr Jazbec and the well lies the building owned by Mrs and Mr Gajsk, and the ground is tilted away from the applicant's building. The investors were taken from the building through the sandstones to a pedagogical building that is even further away from Mr Jazbec's building. This is also where the terrain is headed in a direction away from this building. This is in the record I received when I requested an accurate answer to your specific question in the question of the Member State. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u83	Thank you, Minister. Mrs Majda Shirca will raise a question of the question to the Minister of Culture, Dr Vask Simoniti.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u84	Thank you very much. I am a little itchy to ask you earlier, Mr President, how did you reject Mr Weber's question that he is of a local character, while we have now faced the personal issue of Mr Jazbec's cemetery, which is also the mayor in this environment. Dear Dr. Vasko Simoniti! The Strategic Council has proposed to the government a reform proposal. There is also a proposal to introduce a single tax rate. Some former and current members of the strategic world have repeatedly made their views on culture clear and publicly expressed. Some said that culture kills, others said that cultures were so supposedly sacred cows and protected as sacred cows in museums. The Ministry of Culture has not yet been publicly defined on the issue of the introduction of a single tax rate. That is why I would like to ask you, Mr. Minister: What is your position or position of the Ministry of Culture towards the introduction of a single tax rate? Have you done any analysis to report on the consequences of the introduction of a single tax rate in the field of culture? If you are, what are these analyses, or what do they bring? Without our own analysis, it is clear to us that the single tax rate introduced in Slovakia, by which Slovenia is so vehemently exemplary, has killed culture and left cultural institutions in a very widespread state. We know that double taxation of VAT on culture, not only in Slovenia, but in Europe, means an extremely welcome way of regulating and facilitating the life of culture, which we know the market itself cannot provide for survival. If it will apply a single tax rate, according to my or already primary school calculations, then cultural services will be 10% more expensive, as we know that cultural services and cultural products themselves fall below, that is 8.5 tax rates. Therefore, it would be more expensive to have a uniform tax rate, books, newspapers, periodicals, humanities, theatre tickets, museums, cinemas, copyrights and the arts themselves. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Mr. Minister, I ask you: do you have an attitude towards the introduction of a single tax rate, do you have an analysis? And if so, what? How do you do? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u85	Mrs. Shirca.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u86	to remedy this issue in the event of a single tax rate being introduced? [[...]] [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u87	Thank you, Mrs. Shirci. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u88	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In any event, the Government's presentation of the reform proposals has already delivered an immediate opinion that particular attention will have to be paid to this issue, so that the area of culture would not be particularly affected, that it would be significantly deprived or deprived at all. The Ministry of Culture is certainly aware of the importance of tax arrangements for the operation of cultural operators and access to culture for citizens. In this regard, it is clear that there is a very up-to-date debate on the possible introduction of a single tax rate. For this particular purpose, the Ministry of Culture has commissioned a study to identify in particular the possible financial implications if a tax rate is introduced, what these consequences will be for Slovenian culture. In doing so, we will also obtain all the necessary information that has caused certain problems in Slovakia, and we will also make this comparison with us. In the context of the study itself, qualified experts will assess the current tax burden on public institutions, businesses and other cultural organisations and in this regard will assess the impact of the introduction of a single tax rate, if any, on the tax burden on culture. We expect the results of this study in mid-November this year, and then we will decide precisely and bindingly on what measures to take in this regard and will propose them to the government to study them and possibly take them. In any event, it is the aim of the Ministry that the situation for cultural development in Slovenia will in no way deteriorate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u89	Thank you, Minister. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u90	Of course, I want a supplement, because it seems unheard of to me that, at the time that the amendments to tax laws are already being tabled, when the government is already dealing with this issue and when the Strategic Council has been dealing with this issue for more than half a year, the Ministry states that it has only ordered a study that it will receive in mid-November on the basis of which it will be able to say what it will do, while at the same time ensuring that it will not work in this way that these burdens will arise, because, as a matter of fact, a high school student can consider that such consequences will be, and even, Mr Minister, they are, contrary to what you said when you promised relief in the field of tax legislation. It seems unheard of to me that these analyses are not that the Ministry of Culture, as part of the government, does not know how it will behave tomorrow, when the issue will be on the table and when it will have to be decided. The analysis does not take place in one day and I think that all the answers to this question should have not only you, but also us and me, when I ask you now. Once, when you were in second place, you attacked that we have a lower tax rate for the book in Slovenia. You wanted to have a zero VAT rate per book. Mr. Minister: What will you do tomorrow when the analysis is not yet done? Will something else be said, let's say that if you change 1% of the tax rate, the demand goes down by 1%? What are you gonna do?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u91	Thank you, Mrs. Shirci. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u92	The lady asked what we were going to do. So we will not ask either secondary school students or primary school students, but competent people to prepare the appropriate basis for us to make the appropriate decisions in this regard. Personally, I do not think it is too late for the government to actually propose appropriate measures to protect culture to a good extent. The aim of the reforms is certainly to create better conditions for the economy. That's clear. Therefore, I have no doubt that a better economy will also mean creating better conditions for culture alone. So it seems unheard of to you that there is no such thing today. Well, it seems to me that there is a lot to be heard, but I think it will be heard that culture will in particular not be deprived of anything, that conditions will not deteriorate in any way. I believe that no one has such a desire to make the conditions worse. I think by now the government has shown itself to be very careful about culture, to say the least. This year it also proved this in the 2006 budget. This affection shows and is aware of what culture means to Slovenia and to the Slovenes, so that there is no fear. However, it is true, and it will be clear to think carefully about how to keep culture intact, so to speak. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u93	Thank you, Minister. Mr Bevk alone will ask the Minister of Health, Mr Bručan and the Minister of Agriculture, who is absent.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u94	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! By August, the World Health Organization had called on countries to prepare for a possible outbreak of avian influenza in humans. At that time, it was also found that most European countries were poorly prepared and that they underestimated this danger. On the question of colleague Possoncheva a month ago, Minister Bručan, you said that the current possibility for outbreaks of avian influenza in the Member States of the European Union and also in Slovenia is very small. Today, bird flu is present not only in the countries of the European Union, but also in our nearest neighbour Croatia. There is therefore a serious possibility of avian influenza occurring in poultry and migratory birds in Slovenia. At the time of the mass death of the grey herons in August this year, the competent veterinary service in the Drava Valley did not carry out any appropriate research and ruled out any suspected infection with the bird flu virus. Already in August, the Netherlands banned the holding of poultry in the open, and in September Germany also imposed this ban on us in the part of Slovenia only two days ago. Of course, there is also a risk that the virus will jump from birds to humans. The only protection is appropriate vaccines and antiviral medicines. Tamiflu has suddenly disappeared from the pharmacy, so I expect specific information from you about who supplied this medicine. We all claim to have prepared well for the outbreak of the disease. I also ask: How many medicines do we have for influenza in Slovenia? Do we have enough vaccines with increased demand for common flu? Has the Republic of Slovenia already provided a future vaccine against avian influenza in advance? How will distribution take place in case of a pandemic? How many breath masks do we have, where would we treat and isolate the first patients with bird flu, how many exercises are planned for a mass outbreak of bird flu in Slovenia? How will informing and sensitizing the population take place so that unnecessary complications do not occur? How to organise the participation of veterinary and health institutions of all other services in the event of a possible major outbreak of disease. So I ask Dr. Bručana and Minister Lukačič: As the Republic of Slovenia is prepared for the possible occurrence of avian influenza in poultry and wild birds and for a possible mass outbreak of avian influenza in the population. In view of two questions on this subject today, Mr Minister, you have a good opportunity to answer this topic fully. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u95	Thank you, Mr. Bevk. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u96	Thank you so much for asking. Thank you very much also, of course, for your determination of how much I have the opportunity to answer this question, which is perfectly clear that it is within these ten minutes. In fact, I have answered your question in part before I answered it. The first question about avian influenza, however, remains quite a few things that should be clarified here. Above all, I spoke a month ago about the possibility of an outbreak of avian influenza between humans being zero or very small, but I did not say anything because it is not my responsibility to talk about an epidemic among birds either. That's what we're talking about, as far as I'm concerned, about a month ago. Of course, I also need to clarify some things for everyone here from an expert point of view, because they are confusing concepts that do not have much to do with expertise and reality. Indeed, the world has recently faced one threat of avian influenza among birds. And in Asian and some European countries, of course, this has stimulated an increased interest in this phenomenon. Let me begin by explaining something that we are talking about two different phenomena and that there is currently virtually no risk of a massive outbreak of avian influenza in people in Europe. This is also the conclusion and conclusion of a meeting of ministers three days ago in London. And that's what we've been stressing all along before, not just at this meeting and after this meeting. Avian influenza is an infectious disease of animals, especially birds caused by viruses. In recent times, the main cause of concern is the H5N1 virus. Although the virus has the ability to transmit to humans, it can cause a serious disease with high mortality, and in fact, such transmission to humans is extremely rare. The current situation in Asia, where conditions are significantly different from those in Europe, shows that such a transfer is extremely rare. The possibility of a completely new strain of the virus is a cause of concern, and we are moving on to the threat of a pandemic that could develop with a combined virus of avian influenza and a virus of human influenza or that the current virus of avian influenza would change so that it can be transmitted from human to human. People would not be resistant to such a new virus, and a favourable situation would arise for large-scale epidemics or flu pandemics. Each case of avian influenza in humans significantly increases the possibility of developing a new virus, so all measures to control avian influenza and to limit the spread of the virus and also simultaneously to prevent infection with a common influenza virus are important, which is why we also want to carry out the most extensive vaccination in Slovenia against the normal seasonal influenza virus. In terms of avian influenza, measures are now being taken to prevent the introduction of avian influenza into the country at the level of the veterinary administration or the Ministry of Agriculture. At the conclusion of the Commission, in which the various experts are involved, and this is the coordination between medicine and veterinary, following the conclusion of this Commission, adopted at the meeting on 13 October, an interdisciplinary review team met in the report on the protection of farm workers and in the second part where there is a risk of infection in the event of avian influenza. In the Ministry of Health in case of avian influenza among birds in Slovenia, it has also provided supplies of an antiviral medicine that would be used as a protection for exposed persons, that is to say, the 6,000 pieces that will be available in November are now 2 000. The Ministry of Health is also preparing for a possible future pandemic of flu, and I have said something about preparedness plans in my previous reply - it is not necessary for me to repeat this now because I have little time. However, given that there are many unknowns in the field of pandemics, it is possible to predict that the disease will spread rapidly around the world and cause a significant increase in disease within a short period of time. A flu pandemic would put a great strain on health care, and at the same time, it would have a major impact on everyday life. Experts estimate that it will take at least half a year to prepare a proper, real, successful vaccine from the first occurrence of the disease. Even after the vaccine is available, this will be in limited quantities. In order to control the spread of the disease, experts and we also recommend the use of antiviral medicines that are available and actually prevent the spread of the disease and, at the same time, at least partly, I expect they are also treating the disease. As part of the preparation of the plan in preparation for the pandemic of influenza, responsible for professional bases, preparation of antiviral medicinal products and vaccines, the Ministry of Health proposed the establishment of a state supply of the anti-tamiflu medicinal product, which will be available in early 2006 in a certain amount, by covering 3% of coverage, and then up to 25%, so we anticipated 2 billion additional money [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u97	Thank you very much. A warm welcome to all Mr Ministers and Members and Members of Parliament on my part as well. Would you like, Mr. Bevk, to complete the answer? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Also because the minister ran out of time. I hope that one part of the question will be answered next time by the Minister for Agriculture, Mrs Lukačičeva. Nevertheless, regarding a possible and possible pandemic, I would also ask: What about the awareness and education of the lay and professional public? Do we already have any brochures, such as a plan of conduct in hospitals, public places, schools, theatres, halls, where very many people are staying, public events, and so forth? Ter: Are we also educating medical personnel, other public workers, who will then influence public opinion? And perhaps we would also start with an accelerated media action to strengthen the immune system in humans and so on. I wonder: What are the activities in relation to the professional service and the public? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u99	Thank you. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u100	Well, we've been getting a lot of help from the media lately, so I could thank them on this occasion. In fact, information to the public has been significantly improved recently due to the media. We ourselves at the Ministry are preparing a specific plan, which will also be published in printed form and which will also be forwarded to the European Union for review. In fact, at a meeting three days ago in London, we agreed that all countries send their plans and that we analyse them together and then fix those who are on average, I would say so. Slovenia, with the plan it has now, has not been mentioned among those countries that are below average. As far as the propaganda between the population is concerned, we are preparing a brochure, and we are also preparing a leaflet that will draw attention to the potential for proliferation and, above all, to the preventive actions that will be necessary in order to avoid the pandemic. Again, there is no better way to prevent avian influenza virus that would mutate and then be very dangerous to the population than vaccination against common flu. And in this case, we will also now start this vaccination in early November, a few days or maybe ten days earlier than usual during the regular seasons when this seasonal flu occurred. So on your question about our willingness to inform the public, I think that so far, at least by the Ministry of Health, we have fulfilled our task and have informed the public in those points which are now possible, a whole range of unknowns exist, which we will have to complement by doing so.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Given the absence of some, it is already up to Mr Srečko Friends to ask the Minister of Transport.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u102	Thank you, Madam President. Respectable ministers, colleagues, colleagues! The second track is of national importance. Dear Minister of Transport: Are you deliberately holding back EUR 5.5 million for use in essence from the Cohesion Fund and the beginning of the construction of this track? If this is your intention, then all condemnation is worth it. I would also like to point out that we have already dedicated more than 1,000 million tolars to the project documentation of this project. Today, when we have the opportunity to draw on these funds, we ask for the extension of the European Community, which allows us to be extended in December 2006. We could start with geodetic research, hydro research and land purchases, project documentation; in short, the project could have already run if it had not been for such arrogance. Today we are driving on the so-called industrial track, which has more, you know, Mr Minister, more than 30 per cent of the drop, although it should not be under all international rules more than 27, but we are lying, the international documents say that it is so, but it is not. That's what all railroaders know. And we're actually risking the day after day that this industrial track is moving into the valley, because the possession is huge. Of course, industry is also waiting, the economy is waiting for this second track, because we know that, in fact, if we don't do it, we can just write off the contracts that are in progress today. I'm interested in the role of Italy, Your Honor's Minister. Are you waiting for Italy? You have an answer where Italy would like to join our so-called EN variant, essentially a tunnel plain, which would have been built in all predictions, it would have been possible for this project to take place there in 2015 - 10 years if we started it today. If we invest this in the second year, we can count on a serious approach in 2008 and 2007 respectively. But I don't understand such ignorance on your part when we see that we can start with parts, and we're putting it in the future. Europe offers us money, we do not know how to use it. You yourself signed this document, I hope you will remember, in 2004, 14.12., in which you clearly give an order to hold or withdraw the relevant tenders pending the approval of the document and identification. These are the documents for the preparation of the second track. I'm asking you, when do you plan to start work?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u103	Mr. Friend, time. Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u104	Thank you very much for the words, Mr President, and thank you very much for the question of this question to Mr Friend. Thus, in December 2004, the European Commission adopted Decision 5842 granting financial assistance to the Republic of Slovenia for the production of technical studies for the construction of a second track on the course of Divac - Koper amounting to 5.47m euros. The estimated value of studies covering a comprehensive assessment of the environment, geological research, water management arrangements, the development of project documentation for temporary landfills, the production of project documentation for the acquisition of building permits to be co-financed by European funds is EUR 19.5 million. In the first half of 2005, the Railway Agency did not have its own project participation ensured, while it was found that the Railway Agency proposed to the one-year programme the production of documentation that could not be produced in such a short time. The Ministry of Transport therefore asked the European Commission to extend the deadline for the use of funds until the end of 2006, which the European Commission has also approved. The assets of the own contribution for 2005 were provided in the Law on the Guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for the liabilities of the Public Railway Agency for credits rented to ensure its own participation in 2005 for projects carried out under the Investment Programme co-financed by the European Union and for the coverage of the costs and interest on credit that the Public Railway Agency has hired for the maintenance and investment of railway infrastructure in 2003 and 2004. The Railway Agency shall prepare tender documentation for the production of technical studies, including geological research, and shall provide for the pre-commitment of tenders this year. In order to provide funds in the coming years, the Ministry of Transport has already drawn up a proposal for a law on the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for public railway agency obligations under a credit for the implementation of the railway transport system development programmes, which will be sent to the government procedure by means of a motion for a resolution on the national programme for the development of public railway infrastructure. Both documents also include the second track of the Divača-Koper route with a time plan for implementation. Existing legislation on the construction of buildings and the regulation of premises does not require the preparation of laws on the construction of individual infrastructure projects, so we do not see the need for its preparation and adoption. So, I am talking about a special law, and if such a need is to be demonstrated or proved necessary in the future, the Ministry of Transport will also prepare such a law. I would add to the reply the quote you quoted on the document that was actually signed last year, which is at the end of 2004, but you overlooked the second fact that the call for tenders was, of course, lagging behind because the location plan regulation had not yet been adopted and was therefore adopted later. Therefore, this was also the main reason for stopping these procedures in obtaining the relevant documentation and, in particular, for calls for, as has already been said, investment and project documentation. So that would be my part of the answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, Mr. Friend requires a complete reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u106	The Honourable Minister. It's not right to fool the public, you can't fool me. The Railway Agency has received confirmation of its annual plan just recently, and you know that. How, then, can you accomplish what you are imposing on her if the annual plan is barely confirmed by the end of the expired, in 2005, respected minister? It's not right that you're lying to us. The second thing to cancel was that there were conditions at the beginning of this year’s holiday, as all plans were confirmed by the government earlier this year. And the third thing is, why don't you really want to take my initiative and sign or put a second-track law into the procedure if we know that the investment is going to take ten years? The national programme from the previous period, you yourself scored, is only implemented in 17%. There is also a second track, already in 1996, 1994 we designed it, and to this day we have done nothing but spend thousands of millions. It's also your responsibility to write such things and stop procedures. When there will be an extraordinary event tomorrow on the mainland, which is unable to transport even normal trains, we have the help of a diesel locomotive, you will be responsible. The trail sits, and it's going to crash into the valley. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mag. Christmas.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u108	Thank you very much for the additional clarifications made by the Member of Parliament. In fact, I would not like to comment, but it is certainly not a matter of misleading the public, because I have operated on concrete data and concrete facts. It is true that the Agency's annual plan has been adopted recently, but this is not the fault of our ministry, but of course all the procedures that have long been put in place in the preparation of the 2005 budget, which we know of when, in the process of correction in the National Assembly. Without an appropriate document of the financial plan, it is true that public procurement procedures cannot be implemented under the procurement law. But as I made clear, the main document for choosing procedures was the location plan. This was a prerequisite for us to continue the procedures at all. And the question is, why not a special marriage? I have made it very clear that, like the railway track, the second track of Divača-Koper, would be the same for all other necessary interventions on railway infrastructure in order to adopt a specific law. That is why we have proposed and developed a national programme for the renewal of the rail transport system in a very short time. And with this document we will in some way close the planning processes of all future investments throughout the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u109	Mr. Friend, I presume you have a procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u110	Thank you, Chairman. Well, that's not true. The second track isn't any other project. And I would like to stress, in accordance with Article 146, that I am extremely dissatisfied with your flat-rate response, and I demand that a special debate be held on the second track. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u111	Thank you very much, Mr. Friend. Your proposal that the National Assembly hold a debate at the next meeting on the Minister of Transport's response to your parliamentary question will be decided by the State Assembly in the framework of tomorrow's vote. It is now the turn of Member Marjetka Uhan to ask the question of the absent Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u112	Thank you so much for saying that. The Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Mrs Marija Lukačič, would ask: How will the consequences resulting from the non-professional fulfilment of the subsidy applications for farmers be addressed? How many applications have been rejected by farmers? Ter: What is the estimated total value of rejected claims? On the one hand, errors were due to the inconsistent fulfilment of applications by the agricultural advisory service. Here I am thinking mainly of the fact that they have forgotten to surround the claims, or have overlooked, for example, the milk premium, which has caused some farmers to be harmed by up to a few thousand to one million and more tolars. What will you do in this direction to ensure that farmers still receive the right funds? On the other hand, some 10,000 applications were rejected - correction - which were rejected due to amended instructions given by the Agency for Agricultural Markets and Rural Development at the time of submission of applications. All of this has caused a lot of dissatisfaction with the agricultural advisory service and farmers who had to correct the application and re-apply. What do you intend to do in this direction in the future so that such mistakes do not occur and to such an extent do not occur? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u113	Thank you very much. The absent Minister will respond in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. The next Member is Mr Aleš Gulič, who will ask the Minister for Home Affairs.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u114	Dear President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, Mr Minister! In recent times or around 15 October, several police investigations were reported in the media, one of the more visible were those of the Roma settlements of Brezje and Zabjak of the New City, where the police carried out measures that I think were not in proportion to the purpose of the investigation, not with the results. And because many people feel that excessive use of force, including the choice of time to investigate, children who have been involved in this, older people and so on, certainly do not speak in favour of a wise decision. I therefore ask you: On the basis of what direction do the police or local police authorities determine the scope of the investigation measures? Does this extensive investigation - 150 police officers, say in action, with dogs, with all the equipment - as mentioned, consult with the police administration? And of course: How do you get information about these great successes? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u116	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the question, Mr Member. With regard to the investigation you mentioned and carried out in the New City area, in the Roma settlements of Brezje and along the road Nova mesto - Mirna Pec, I must say that the Romani settlement is divided there into two parts, and is directly located both on the part of Novo Mesto and on some other settlements. This year we recorded an increased number of violations in this area. In particular, a large number of shootings have been recorded. The cases were increasing with the month of June, so every month since June, we had more than nine shootings with firearms. This year, however, we received more than 60 applications from citizens from nearby settlements to 113 due to various events. The higher number, 46 of these reports were related to shootings, some of them were found to have used firecrackers that only sounded like shooting. In the good work, however, it was somehow observed that a gun was used. Because of the difficulty of investigating these acts, we have come to a conclusion or the police have come to the conclusion that there is a need for more action to be taken to carry out more house-to-house investigations. The whole action was coordinated at the level of the police administration, including some other police administrations, both Krško and Postojna, and a special police unit was used with all means. The action in which this was carried out was defined by a specific method as the method of application of the security action. This action uses a wide range of different police profiles and other police stations have been involved. It was about securing the entire area. It was the use of service dogs for the detection of drugs, explosives, ammunition and, of course, a special group within the police was also involved, as it provided health care for any injuries that might have occurred in this regard, so such a large number of police officers were also used in this action. Of course, it is not possible to predict in advance what individual actions will be seized. However, I must say that the complete preparation was carried out in cooperation with the District Court in New Town, which also ordered 11 house investigations. Whenever more houses are investigated in a settlement, of course this part has to be blocked somehow to ensure the safety of both the police carrying out the action and the investigators. You also mentioned the violence that was used or the force that was used. I must say that in a particular case there was a threat with a knife to an individual police officer who wanted to enter the house on the basis of a specific house investigation, the threat was intended first for the police, then the threat was that the person would harm himself when the person put the gun down was taken into the hands of a child who physically wanted to attack a police officer. Of course, police officers who protected the procedure of entry into this facility used the necessary means to, of course, prevent the possibility of harming themselves or a police officer in that operation. Since the person who claimed to have been injured said so out loud, it was immediately examined by the police officer or doctor who was assigned to the action. However, since there were no visible injuries, this doctor ordered a medical examination at Novo Mesto Hospital, where they found that there was no physical visible injury and that some force was used to carry out the matter. Maybe I'd just add that to the fact that we found five guns, two guns, a little over 130 rounds of ammunition, and every charge and every rifle, even older production, of course, could put people at risk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u117	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Gulic, would you like to complete your response?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u118	I'd like to, not so much for what's been said. I, of course, did not talk about violence, it was just explained and I am grateful that Mr Minister has so fully signed this part. Of course, I have comments about those guns. What appeared to be from the media was only one weapon so that it could be shot, and that would only appear to be - but it's not essential. In fact, I am more concerned about the fact that it happened in an environment that is, in a way, quite often under the scrutiny of power, more interested in what one speaker said to police officers in the end, to continue with such actions; but I am interested, will - such shooting is a great deal in Fužinah, but if it happened in Murglas: Would such action be so extensive and so thorough and so on? Because we know that weapons are not only tied to the Roma but also to civilians if I use their language.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mr. Mate.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u120	Thank you very much, Chairman. First, if I answer the first part of the question or the first question. I have here a list of all the applications that were recorded in all four settlements this year, which somehow surround these two settlements where the Roma live. The list is a long 6-page, very detailed description of what events are recorded, and any threat to the safety of anyone the police will examine and on the basis of the data they receive and the reports they receive from the citizens, then decided what actions are appropriate and how often to repeat them. The second part of the question, which speaks of a kind of hypothetical question, if this were to happen, say, in Murgle or another settlement in Ljubljana, where you would get such a number of reports that from some part of the settlement or part of the city you would use firearms and shots at the facades of houses where you could see the signs of shooting, you would examine the matter, look at it and decide, regardless of who lives in this settlement. In fact, the threat to human security and the firing of weapons is a very serious threat to lives, it is necessary to react in some way and is not in any way connected at any time with any membership either of the Roma community or of any other minority community or of the majority community in Slovenia, but it is only and only related to the issue of the protection and security of citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u121	Thank you very much. It is the turn of Mr Matjaž Han to ask the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u122	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honorable Council of Ministers, Your Honor! This year, the government has given priority to implementing measures that will contribute to increasing the number of births. This is the direction of the government that I support. Unfortunately, however, the actual part of the government shows that it was only about the words that you liked. The government has dealt with everything else, and the time for improvements in child birth policy has apparently run out. Young people tend to answer the question of what they would need to make it easier for them to decide for their child that it is an apartment and a job. If you have no major influence on housing policy, Mr. Minister, employment is your area. Dear Minister, you often mention in your performances that the Slovenian labour market needs to be made more flexible. This is also one of the measures proposed by the Reform Committee. I am very skeptical about this proposal myself. Employers are already reluctant to hire parents, especially mothers with young children, including women who are at a suitable age to create a family, who find it more difficult to get a job. Liberalisation of the labour market will, in the first place, mean easier forgiveness, which you yourself recognize would bring about the realization of such ideas, and we all know. Companies will first get rid of older and sick workers. However, workers who will remain will be more likely to move to further deprivation of rights under the influence of the threat that they will be able to find themselves without employment at any time. On the other hand, the government does not offer concrete programmes to increase employment. All is left to the unverified assumption that easier forgiveness will automatically trigger additional employment. The increasing flexibility of the labour market is therefore quite contrary to the desire to increase fertility. Or do you honestly believe that people who are afraid to lose their jobs daily will decide for their children? Dear Minister! What concrete measures have you taken to create a more friendly environment for the decision to give birth to children during your ministry? What are the results of the measures taken or when will they be visible? What concrete measures are you planning and when will they be taken? And in the end. How do you estimate that the easier dismissal of employees will affect the decision of young people to give birth? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Mag. It's a trifle.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u124	Dear Member, thank you so much for asking me this question, thank you so much for saying this! Increasing fertility and ensuring this is not an easy issue. Of course, this is recognised not only by experts in our country but also in other countries. Finally, we can see that in the last twelve, thirteen years, a number of measures have been put in place to benefit families, for the benefit of children. But the fact is, at the same time, the number of children almost halved. This means that some material measures in terms of providing money for families have not produced fruit as regards greater fertility. That is why we ask ourselves, but what measures could have effects, and that is why we have put into the programme what we have warned young people about; and this is an increase in employment - that is, a better situation in the field of employment and housing policy. More non-profit apartments, more housing and a reduction in the price of apartments are needed, and it is also certainly easier to rent credits. This has also been highlighted by our intentions, mortgage loans, so that the annuities are lower. Surely, however, it also means a measure of well-being in the direction of reconciliation of family and professional life. What have we done? We dropped the tax on the big family allowance. This is the first thing the government has adopted in the proposal for tax laws, because in the previous term you have taxed it. Next. We have also introduced a programme for the promotion of women into the active employment policy programme, indirectly promoting the employment of those who will decide on children. Also in the programme for the construction of non-profit apartments - provision of funds at the Ministry of Environment and Space. All of these measures, which have been introduced over the last few years, are good measures aimed at social justice. Reimbursement of costs incurred by families, parents, fathers, mothers, in the upbringing and growth of children. However, these measures, as has already been said, did not bear fruit as regards the increase in fertility. The family must become a real value. This is also done by means of measures, so that those who appear to be divorcing do not have more favourable benefits or benefits than those who are married. Promoting family, of course, but also eliminating all those phenomena in the public that aim at mocking large families and the like. We really want to promote. It happens, it's not the government doing it, it's not the official institution doing it, it's the government doing it. To encourage the family to be of real value. If such a flow, such a trend, as regards fertility, continued in Slovenia, could be closed every other primary school in 7.8 years. After that, or after that, any other teacher could have been unemployed, so this is our serious question. As far as market flexibility is concerned. The flexibility of the labour market increases the number of employees, but it is true that it will then become more segmented and we have therefore prepared measures to promote employment. In the amended Employment and Unemployment Insurance Act, these incentives will be given to women, in particular up to 30 years old, and to those who will replace parents who go on maternity leave. We will do the same for the elderly and have done so for the elderly in terms of using European funds. The tenders were made in this direction. But there will be reinforcements in the coming year. I'll tell you this: greater flexibility of more jobs. Do you want more job protection and fewer jobs or more jobs? I say: greater flexibility and support for the entry and maintenance of jobs. And that's what flexibility is all about. And this is how some countries have succeeded. I hope I answered your questions briefly.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u125	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Han, would you like another question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u126	Dear Minister! You repeat the old principled promises and the flossules. Even if you repeat them a thousand times, no more children will be born in Slovenia. Give me the numbers! For example, how many children do you plan to be born in 2007 and 2008 according to your actions?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u127	I'm having a hard time making those predictions. At the beginning of that Stalinist period, I think there was some sort of five-year-old, but I wouldn't have anticipated that. I think this year's trend will turn towards the end of the year. We will be pleased that this trend will indeed be reversed next year, and we are confident that these measures will also be taken. Mr Member, perhaps with your suggestions, if they measure constructively, if you refer them to the Ministry of Labour, we will listen to them, why not. Even if the opposition proposes good measures, we will include them either in an active employment policy programme or in a new law on employment and unemployment insurance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Ficko would like to ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u129	Thank you very much. I will ask the Minister, Mrs Maria Lukačič, about the maintenance of the melioration facilities. The Agricultural Lands Act also lays down procedures relating to the maintenance and financing of the melioration facilities, in addition to the procedures for the implementation of meliorations on agricultural land. Under Article 95 of the Act, the scheme of regular operation and maintenance of the system and the financial plan for the implementation of the programme should be drawn up by the Manager of the Melioration System. The funds for the implementation of the programmes shall be paid by the owners of the meliorated land in proportion to the area in the national budget. The amount per hectare shall be determined by the Minister or Minister responsible for each meliorated area. The Melioration Community is also expected to represent the interests of the melioration participants in the melioration maintenance process. In the field, there is a great deal of discomfort between payers as they find that maintenance works are not carried out or carried out poorly, such as ditch baskets once a year in late autumn. Many melioration ditches have been planted with trees that were originally not foreseen by the objects because of years of non-performance, but are now no longer to be removed because of the opposition of different societies of lovers of this or that one. Let me mention in particular that this year's precipitation curves have already pointed out that the vegetation of these facilities may also pose a greater flood risk to a particular area. Madam Minister, I ask you to answer the following questions. Is the actual state of maintenance of the melioration facilities as foreseen by law? Here I am thinking in particular: Are objects at least currently maintained everywhere, or are taxpayers pursuing their interests through melioration communities? Are operators of maintenance works selected for all melioration facilities? Are the funds chosen sufficient to carry out the maintenance work and how much is the proceeds made from the debtors? Some debtors feel that, simply put, some do not pay and that is why the extent of maintenance is reduced. However, those who pay a fair price do so for something that is not carried out or that is lacking. I would also like to ask: Are there any future changes planned in this area? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u130	Thank you very much. The question of Mr Marke Pavliha is addressed to the Minister for Environment and Space and to the Minister for Transport. Here you go, Mr. Pavliha.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u131	Thank you very much, Mr Vice-President, for the words and also for the short replacement. Dear ministers, fellow Members and Members of Parliament! I have already asked both ministers in September this year a written question about what you will do in order to adopt a regulation on the state site plan for the Koper-Sharmarje-Dragonja section as soon as possible. Indeed, it is not expected to be adopted until around 2009, which would have moved the construction at least until 2011, if not for a later period, which is unheard of by the situation in the area. Let me say that the situation is getting closer to the state of Prekmurje. Some information. Freight vehicles are a month between 2000 and 2500, and personal vehicles crossing the international border crossing of Dragonja are a major problem. From 20,000 to 23,000 vehicles per day, which means that waiting periods are up to 3 hours for the border crossing, not to mention the noise emissions, the gases that citizens receive all the time during the summer months, and their extremely negative effects on their health. Both ministers have already answered my question in writing, saying that, of course, the core of the problem on the part of the Minister for the Environment and in fact, the administrative procedure for adopting this regulation, which I already know, has explained to me that there is no way to shorten the procedures. During this time, the people of Dragonje also turned to me at the opening of the national border crossing plan, the international border crossing of Dragonjo. They've put up a whole bunch of demands for the relief of their condition, but I'm afraid the country can't do anything about it until it radically changes the law on space regulation and also allows for the reduction of procedures. Let only a few of these citizens' demands be mentioned. First time. They require the construction of a fast road as soon as possible across the village of Dragonja, which would allow the flow of traffic flows from the border crossing to Šmarjem. They then require the construction of anti-group barriers on the current main road, which would at least partially mitigate negative environmental impacts due to a constant increase in traffic, and also consider the possibility of so-called ecological compensation, which is a perfectly normal practice in the European Union. That is why I ask both ministers, in particular the Minister of Environment and Space, on whose part of the court, if I may say, is there now a ball: Is there anything that can be done to alleviate these difficulties? For if the answer is negative, I fear that the inhabitants will be forced to use all legal and legitimate means. Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u132	Mr. Minister Christmas.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u133	Thank you very much for the question, Member. Thank you so much for saying that. I might first give an answer to this question about the construction of the Koper-Šmarje-Dragonje road and also the suburbs of the village of Dragonj, which you addressed orally this time also for the Ministry of the Environment and for me, and I would like to give you an answer, irrespective of my September reply, to the part of the question which is primarily the responsibility of our ministry. As early as September, however, your question regarding the Ministry of Transport's audits on the construction of this rapid road Koper-Šmarje-Dragonja will be said that this section will have to be adopted by the end of the regulation on the state location plan, after our deep conviction, due mainly to the impossible traffic situation in Cyprus, by 2007 at the latest. Notwithstanding the fact that the resolution on the national construction programme does not provide for the adoption of the site plan for this section until December 2010. This fact has been brought to the attention of the Ministry of Transport on several occasions also by the Ministry of Environment and Space, which is responsible for the management of all procedures relating to putting the road into space. However, I am convinced that the installation of a fast road route in the Dragonj settlement area will be carried out by taking over transit transport to address the current problems of the inhabitants of this village, which are, in particular, at the time of the tourist season, exposed to a major negative impact on their living environment, which, of course, we are very aware of in our ministry. Nevertheless, I do not think that the special planning of the bypass at this time is rational or even meaningful, since it is not possible to place a speedy road in the space. As we have already informed you in September, the procedures for the preparation of the national site plan are already under way and the first spatial conference has already been held and the guidelines of the space regulators have been obtained and an analysis of the guidelines provided has been prepared. The current intensive development of a comparative study of variants is expected to be completed by the end of January 2006, which means that, at this point in time, the Ministry of Transport is following the objective of reaching a regulation of the national location plans, as I have already mentioned, by the end of 2007. However, with regard to the initiative to mitigate the negative effects on the environment due to transport through anti-group measures, I can tell you that the Roads Directorate has already taken a step towards solving the noise burden along the main road of Koper-Dragonja. A noise load study and a proposal for anti-group protection were carried out to identify the necessary measures to protect objects against noise from traffic. According to the results of this study, anti-group measures in the form of so-called passive protection are envisaged for 34 facilities with a total value of around 31 million tolars to be implemented next year. So, in order to give you a satisfactory answer to the question within the Ministry of Transport's competence, I also, of course, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Minister Podobnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u135	Thank you very much. I'd like to complement my colleague's response. Christmas [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u136	Please consider time.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u137	Please. Yeah, I'll take it from here, I will. First of all, I would apologize to Dr. Pavlich, and today my written answer to your written question to the President of the National Assembly has come to you, and it seems that I have really missed a few days, which is not my custom, and I apologize. The ambitious plan of a fellow Master of Christmas to adopt the state location plan by the end of 2007 is realistic on one condition that we will amend the applicable law on space regulation no later than the next spring. I must say that I have a working group that will prepare amendments to the law on space regulation in two rounds. It is simply so sensitive and complicated that we will first propose changes in the first phase, namely the relations between government departments and the congregation. We will help the municipalities in this case, simplify the procedure for the preparation and adoption of municipal spatial acts and combine it with a comprehensive environmental impact assessment procedure. This will now come to the government next month and then to the National Assembly. Then, in the early spring, another amendment to the law, which will also touch on the procedure of the State's location plans. That's the information. And now it's only about anti-group barriers. I'm glad this information is going to go into this, I'd say, an intervention solution next year. However, as regards the stage of preparation of the process of the State site plan itself, it will be very important what will be the situation in local communities, what will be the attitude of municipalities, the local population, how all the necessary information will be prepared by individual authorities and organisations and how all the professional materials, studies of variants, the professional basis of Darsa - will follow our pace. We have assurances that this will happen.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Here you go, Dr. Pavlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u139	Thank you very much. I am pleased with the response of the Master of Christmas, because I know that this is actually the most that the Ministry of Transport can do right now. However, I would like to ask Mr Spokonik for the next reply to be completed. I am curious: How was it possible last year in the case of Pomurje - regardless of the existing legislation - to significantly shorten all administrative procedures for the adoption of the regulations of the local plans and other documents and, of course, to enable the construction of this very important road by 2008? This is the first question and the second question is, if, of course, it is necessary to amend the law on space regulation: how far are you and how real is it that this will be achieved so that the said road can then be adopted in the form of a regulation by 2007, as the Ministry of Transport has already concluded that it would be necessary? In fact, once again, the people of all three coastal municipalities literally choke, not only during the main season but also during the weekends and also during the holidays. Therefore, the problem from day to day will be worse and more clearly, resulting in the threat to tourism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u140	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u141	Thank you very much. The essential difference between the pomurski kark and this important part of the road network is that the pomurski kark received the basis in the annual plan for the reconstruction and construction of the highway network and was amended in the process and also in the National Assembly, and thus committed the Government and all the trainees to take priority in the construction, including the preparation of the site documents for this section. This was a very important incentive. Maybe this could be one of the ways for this section.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u142	Thank you very much. The Minister of Justice will be asked a question by Mrs Barbara Žgajner Tavš. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u143	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Mr. Secretary! Sexual crime in the Republic of Slovenia and the gravity of these acts are escalating. In particular, it is worrying that there is an increasing number of sexual violence against children and minors and that there are several returnees in Slovenian prisons from year to year. Europe has taken this complex issue seriously - to mention only some countries such as Finland, Great Britain, Austria, Germany, Belgium, etc. In addition to the register and the legal obligation to submit a certificate of non-punitive sexual inviolability for those jobs related to education and education, some countries have also introduced or even chemical castration for pedophiles. And if I go back to Slovenia, I'll only talk about the information that's available to the public, so you won't say I'm talking to myself. The practice is such that the victims of these most serious crimes are largely left to themselves. You explain the provisions of the Criminal Procedure Act as sufficient. Now, I ask you whether Slovenian legislation is really as complete and good as possible, and how - and I will tell you the case in practice - during the remainder of the sentence, the parent gets the way out and the chance to get in touch with the victim. Moreover, during the extenuating circumstances in the case of sexual assault on a teenage girl, the judge takes into account that this is the first such act of the perpetrator, with such a pedophile being able to or must care for his teenage daughter. Minister, such legislation cannot be proud, nor can you, I am sure. And how can you, with the success and appropriateness of legislation that is logically implemented in practice, comment on the fact that in Slovenian prisons there is only a sexual assault on a person under the age of 15 and 53 convicts and their sentence is only three and a half years on average? Such ignorance, you know, in itself raises the question of who in the Republic of Slovenia tolerates or even supports pedophiles. In the parliamentary initiative, I proposed to the government to explore the possibilities and consider the introduction of a register of pedophiles in Slovenia. Such practices are becoming more and more common in European countries, and the least developed and more restrictive model is being developed by the United States of America, but you are saying that the introduction of such a register in Slovenian space would be inappropriate in terms of the principle of proportionality. What proportions, I ask you? In the same reply, it is better to prevent crimes than to punish them. If the preventive effect has been demonstrated [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] - I will conclude - why the negative opinion on the introduction of the paedophile register, if prison is one of such variants? Why You Support [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u144	it will have to be concluded. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u145	Ridiculously low sentences? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Dr. Storm's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u147	Thank you for your word. Thank you also for the question, honourable Member. On this issue, let us explain that the Government has already answered the substantive same question by letter to the President of the National Assembly on 22 September this year. It has also addressed the reply to the Member's written question, Mrs Barbara Žgajner Tavš, which was broader, but also covered the issue of the register of convicted persons. On this written question, the government referred the answer to the President of the National Assembly on 20 October this year. We therefore reiterate only the answer to the question concerning the register of convicted persons for crimes against sexual inviolability. First, we explain that the criminal code already in force lays down the rules relating to criminal records established by the Ministry of Justice. Thus, in the first paragraph of Article 105, the criminal code provides for the content of the criminal record. These are personal data on the perpetrators of criminal offences, security measures, conditional convictions, court notices and convictions by which the perpetrators have been acquitted and the legal consequences of convictions and the like. The law also lays down rules for the provision of data from criminal records. The information contained in the criminal record on the unrepeated conviction in accordance with the relevant provisions of the criminal code may also be made available to public authorities, legal persons and private employers on a reasoned request, if the legal consequences of the conviction continue to persist or if they have a legitimate interest, on the basis of the law. On the basis of the law, however, the interest of any employer is based on possible regulation in the field and not in criminal law. Only sector-specific legislation regarding certain professions can determine the necessary specific qualities of those who will carry out these professions. However, these special qualities or criteria may also require that such a person should not be legally convicted of certain offences. In accordance with the criminal code and the relevant sub-laws, the criminal record shall also include available information on the penalties and educational measures imposed on citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and foreigners living permanently in the Republic of Slovenia, foreign courts. The Rules concerning the Legal Consequences of the Sentence of Criminal Procedure are laid down in Chapter 8. It thus provides that convictions for certain offences or certain penalties may result in the legal effect of the termination or loss of certain rights or the prohibition of the acquisition of certain rights. The legal consequences of a conviction shall be prescribed only by law and shall arise under the law in which they are signed. The second paragraph of Article 100 of the Criminal Code provides for the prohibition of the exercise of certain public functions or of the powers of an official, the prohibition of obtaining a particular profession and the prohibition of obtaining certain licences or authorisations. In the light of those provisions of the Criminal Code, we explain that the Criminal Code provides a legal basis for the acquisition of certain employment or occupations as a condition that the applicant for employment should not be ordered or that he should not be convicted of certain offences. Sectoral legislation can also provide that candidates for employment must not be legally convicted of crimes against sexual inviolability. This means that the so-called specific conditions of employment in certain jobs cannot be regulated by a criminal code, since it only provides for the concept of employment in general. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] a criminal offence. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Does the Member wish to complete the reply? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u149	In the first place, I would like to answer my question, because I did not get it in this first part. However, I will thank the Minister for his lesson in reading the Penal Code for a few minutes. I must say that the criminal code really gives legal basis to sectoral legislation, but in the same breath I ask him: Why is employment in education and education, that is, the most risky areas, today in Slovenia still going completely smoothly, without proof and proper control? This is the first question, a complementary question. I'll ask you one more time. You wrote in your reply [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u150	Only a request to complete the answer is possible, not a supplementary question that has not been written [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u151	It's actually a question that I've also raised by extending it. But I've already put it in the first part and let me repeat it. The Minister said that the introduction of such a register would be inappropriate in terms of the principle of proportionality. I ask again: What proportions? And you know, the minister, due to the free movement of people or labour within the European Union, some countries have embarked on a project to create a network of pedophiles registers. The Council of the European Commission advocates a direct exchange of information on perpetrators of sexual violence against children, because the signatures of the conventions, which you also mention in response to my parliamentary initiative, are no longer sufficient. How do you comment on this action by the European Union? Is it possible that Slovenia will finally move when the European Union asks it to do so?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u153	Thank you for an additional opportunity to answer. On this issue, I should also draw attention to the important provision of Article 67 of the Penal Code, which, as one of the security measures, already provides for the prohibition of the profession. The Court may prohibit the offender from carrying out a particular profession, independent activity or duty if he has misused it for a crime. That security measure may also be given by the court when it renders a conditional judgment. Infringement of a prohibition on the exercise of a profession may, however, be the reason for the annulment of a conditional conviction. In view of the above, the Court of Justice may also prohibit the offender of any of the offences against sexual inviolability if he has misused this profession for a crime and it is therefore dangerous to continue to carry out such a profession. Infringement of that security measure against the exercise of a profession or the legal effect of a conviction on the basis of specific conditions of employment shall be defined in accordance with the criminal code as a crime committed by the person who makes it possible for the other person to carry out his profession, even though he knows that such a security measure has been imposed by a judicial judgment or that such a prohibition has arisen as a legal consequence of the conviction. In the light of the above, the Government considers that the changes to the law have been made so far, and this is an increase in the prescribed penalties, a longer period for the limitation of prosecution and similar offences against sexual inviolability, appropriate. It also assesses that further development efforts in the field of operation and regulation of social work centres are appropriate, and that the establishment of 12 regional coordinators for cases of dealing with violence and intervention services of social work centres located in 12 regions is an appropriate form of decentralisation in the Republic of Slovenia. The Ministry of Education and Sport, as part of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, will propose that the law on the financing of education and education explicitly lays down the condition of proof of impunity for crimes against sexual inviolability. The Government also considers that the introduction of a special court registry, which would have all data on former perpetrators, would be inappropriate in terms of proportionality. Why? It should be sufficient to amend that sectoral legislation, where proof of impunity for offences against sexual inviolability would be explicitly stated as a condition for employment.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Kangler is next to ask the question of the absent Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u155	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. I'm going to ask the Minister a question that she's not today. I would like to inform you, however, that the Minister has given me a written answer to my oral question, but I am not satisfied with it. Therefore, I ask, Madam Vice-President, that the Minister answer my question orally at the next meeting. The former government under Minister French Booth adopted the Wildlife and Hunting Act on 20.2.2004. At that time, he was Minister Franci Booth, who is today her Secretary of State. The state of play which the Minister of Agriculture has today failed to implement some of the sub-laws which should be enforced in accordance with the Wildlife and Hunting Act. I must point out that the Minister is consciously in violation of Article 81(3), which states that it is necessary to award concessions within three months of the establishment of these hunting grounds after the establishment of the hunting grounds established by the previous year. She hasn't done this until today. I am surprised that the Minister of Finance does not react, given that the Minister of State Budget is recovering the damage caused by the wild. 29. Article 29 of the existing law states exactly that concessions are coming and are the revenue of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. In some ways, the Minister seeks to amend the existing law on game and hunting. In the coalition, we agreed, on the subject of amendments on 21 September 2005, at 5 p.m. in the SDS Group of Members, that the SDS Group of Members, the DeSUS Group and the Slovenian People's Party Group do not support amendments to the existing law on game and hunting. We're defending an existing law. I am setting an example, despite the fact that there is a record, although there is no guarantee that such a law can be brought through the National Assembly, the Minister has set up a working group at the Ministry of Agriculture to prepare new legislation in the field of hunting. I ask the Minister: Why have you not so far tendered for concessions and why are you consciously violating Article 81(3) of the Wildlife and Hunting Act and why do you not respect the minutes of the coalition parties because you have no clear assurance that you will receive support for the new existing hunting legislation?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u156	Thank you very much. I would like to take the floor to invite Mr Ferri Horvat to ask the Minister of Transport.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u157	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Council of Ministers, Minister of Transport, Master Christmas. The data show that road traffic in the direction of Italy towards the Hungarian border and vice versa is increasing rapidly. Police administration data from Murska Sobota for the month of September say that a record has been reached in the number of trucks, almost 76 000, similar to the number of passenger cars and an additional number of buses. This means a further dramatic threat to transport safety, an increasing threat to people and their property and an increasing environmental impact. The situation and consequences go beyond the assessment so far, which was the basis for shortening the original deadline for the completion of the construction of the motorway at the Maribor - Hungarian border section at the end of 2008. I therefore ask the Minister and the Government and allow myself to propose that, on the basis of the financial resources from the budget, from the favourable loans that are already committed and which can be obtained, and from the resources of the European Union, the construction of the motorway’s ferry and the handover of the route should be further accelerated before the end of 2008. To this end, we might be able to engage European Union funds for major projects, as the development of the motorway towards the fifth corridor is not in the interest of Slovenia but also of neighbouring and other Member States of the European Union as soon as possible. It is valuable to shorten the construction deadline for each month.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Mag. Christmas, it's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u159	Thank you very much for the statement, Mr President, thank you for the question. With regard to the transmission of the issue and the further acceleration of the construction of the Pomeranian motorway, which you addressed orally, I would like to say that at the Ministry of Transport we are still aware of the problems of the rise of the average annual daily traffic on the section of the main road G1-3 between Maribor and the Slovenian-Hungarian border. As a result, the Ministry of Transport, together with Dars, carried out a series of activities in both last year and this year, leading to the goal set: the port of Pomuri highway to complete by the end of 2008 at the latest. As early as this year, the construction of the highway section between the Cogetinians and the Wolf Village began. A few days ago, the signing of an implementation contract of more than 15 billion tolars successfully concluded the public tender for the construction of the section between Pesnica and Lenart, which is thus just before the beginning, and we expect that the complaint wave of tenderers will also be stopped in the context of the public tender for the construction of the section between Lendava and the Pincas, so that the construction of this section will begin before the new year for the execution of the preparatory works. Even in the coming year, activities will not be smaller or less extensive, with the construction of the last sections between Lenart and Cogetinci and Beltinci and Lendava, totalling 35 kilometres, so that at the end of 2006 the construction calls will take place without major complications, the city’s motorway leg in construction throughout its entire length. The 2006 proposal for the Annual Development Plan and the reconstruction of motorways, which we will put into inter-resort coordination this week, is therefore within the government, and the construction of the Moorish motorway is intended for a total of 33 billion tolars. Regrettably, despite all the current traffic problems on the main road G1-3, the construction of the ferry highway will not be accelerated in a timely manner in such a way that it is essential to deliver on transport as set out in the deadlines. The geotechnical situation in the area of the Slovenian Mountains and the technology of the construction of motorway embankments require the time consolidation of built-in materials and from the forced construction of past years, in particular the section of the Vučja vas-Beltinci, has proved not to be excessively urgent and it is necessary to give time and wait for actual consolidation to be carried out. We have three years, and I believe your invitation to be welcome every month and we will follow this goal, but not at the expense of quality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Mr Petan is next to ask the Minister for Environment and Space.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u161	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen! Slovenia is committed to the Kyoto Protocol, and I am primarily thinking about greenhouse gas emissions such as NOx, SOX and aerosols. The so-called EU emissions trading system has also been launched. This means that the solution is only in the use of environmentally friendly energies such as biomass, geothermal energy, photovoltaics, solar energy. One of these is certainly wind energy. I would like to remind you that around 15,000 wind power plants are being installed in the Federal Republic of Germany at this time. They build about 1,000 new power plants each year. At the moment, it is the largest power plant, the type of power plant with 1.5 megawatts. Power plants with 2 megawatts are already being built. This means that if 1,000 such power plants are built in Germany, this means that in one year only alternative power plants are built in Germany as much as one third of all power plants installed in Slovenia. That doesn't say it's a little power. If we expect the Krško Nuclear Power Plant to have about 700 megawatts, and in Germany they build 1,000 to 1500 megawatts each year, then we imagine roughly what that means. And the most interesting thing about this is that in our building, if I can use this term, the green one. In Germany, however, the "greens" have achieved such massive construction of wind power plants. This raises the question of why in Germany, Denmark and Spain, where these wind power plants are most mass-produced, is not disturbed, as mentioned by those who oppose these wind power plants. On the other hand, if I do a little caricature, maybe I'll make a little joke that German birds have obviously accepted wind power plants, and obviously not ours. On the other hand, if the German birds don't crash into these power plants and ours does. And if I'm furthering this caricature, I'd say, does that mean maybe the German "greens" taught their birds not to be disturbed by windmills? Now for serious business. Or is it possible that the point is somewhere else? I will not try to guess and therefore now a very serious question to the Minister for Environment and Space: How could it be avoided in Slovenia that public authorities issuing negative consent to build wind power plants despite the positive opinion of local communities and citizens, how can they avoid this, especially now when it comes to trading, so that the state should not even pay for such opposition? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Mr. Similar word is yours.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u163	On the question of Mr Petan, I would like to begin by stressing and thanking Mr Petan for his re-emphasizing Slovenia's commitment to the Kyoto Protocol. This is an instrument that is very important, not an easy one, especially an emission quota trading system. In this place, I reiterate my openness and positive attitude towards environmentally friendly energies, and I believe that one of them is also wind energy. If I start by talking with a positive salary, then I can also say publicly here that Slovenia will soon get its first wind power plant. However, this is an event that has an important weight at the symbolic level, and the generator for electricity production will have power up to 2 megawatts. This is the Grizko field at Sežana, where a positive agreement was issued for the wind power plant. In this case, there was no opposition from either individual citizens or local communities which, under applicable legislation and under European law, may be parties to a procedure, nor from other professional institutions. There are many which, on the basis of the legislation in force, participate in the consent process. On 22 December, an application came to the Ministry, completed this August, the positive opinion of the nature protection institution was made public on 22 August, 26th and the agreement was issued on 7 October this year. Well, good luck with the first wind power plant in Slovenia. Now to your question about the process of issuing consent for wind power plants at the Valovja Reber site. The procedure is still formally ongoing and is as long as you know it, I have already answered here in public the question of one of my fellow Members, the matter has been put back into the process. The matter is complex, opinions, interests are very different. In the finding procedure, it will be necessary to assess all opposing views and opinions and then, in accordance with the rules, determine whether or not a positive agreement will be given. On your question, how can it be avoided that public authorities issue negative approvals for the construction of wind power plants despite the positive opinion of local communities and citizens. We cannot avoid it because state authorities operate on the basis of the legislation in force. This one's very complicated, so I can only keep you informed. The re-examination procedure began on 20 April this year, unfortunately it was necessary to complete the application, the application was completed on 16 June this year, sent to the nature protection agency on 8 July this year and gave an opinion to introduce a procedure on the admissibility of interference in nature in the protected area. The opinion of the competent authorities, including the nature protection agency, which will issue a final decision in those days, is currently being completed. There are also procedures for deciding on party participants in the procedure. I hope we can wrap this up in the next few months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Mr Milan Petek has the floor to ask the Minister of Transport.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u165	Thank you, Chairman. The agony could be said on Slovenian railways. This is demonstrated by the deteriorated performance of the business, the increasing loss, the preparation and reflection of the strike and, in my opinion, the inadequate and incompetent management of the Slovenian Railways. Instead of trying to improve operating conditions at the Ministry and in the competent institutions, rationalising the way and costs are incurred, you seem to be doing more at the Ministry on how you will be able to prepare legislation or documents with which you will reorganise Slovenian railways. This shows some facts, some documents, some individual statements. Unfortunately, there are no acts behind them, and so is this legislation or the drafting of legislation running too slowly. I would like to ask you, Mr Minister, who actually gave you the mandate to work on different legislation instead of the appropriate measures related to the referendum decision on the transformation of Slovenian railways, but I will ask you the following questions today. In the previously described activities related to the transformation of the Slovenian Railways and Railway Agency, the Ministry of Transport reportedly activated several years of retired experts and former Slovenian railway leaders, as well as "emphasis", under the headings, representatives of some trade unions. Therefore, Mr Minister, I ask you: Which body or authority has concluded contracts with Mr Aloise Boho, Mr Edmundo Škrbec and Mr Bogdan Zgonec for advisory services and for participation in various commissions? By what procedure have they been selected as the provider of these services and how much resources have been paid to individuals and to the total for these services?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Minister, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u167	Thank you very much for the words, Mr President, and thank you very much for the question of Members. By Decision No 2611-8/2005/1 6000, the Ministry of Transport appointed Dr Zgonca as Chairman of the Working Party, which was responsible for preparing an analysis of the organisation of railways in the European Union, preparing a proposal for the organisation of the Slovenian railway system and proposing amendments to the regulations. The contract was then concluded on the basis of which 930 000 Slovenian tolars were paid for his work. Mr Aloise Boh and Mr Edmund Škrbec were not engaged in this field at all and no contract at the Ministry of Transport was signed with them for this purpose.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u168	Thank you very much. Mr Yelen will ask the Minister of Finance a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u169	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President, Ministers, Members and Members of Parliament. My question is addressed to the Minister of Finance. The recent sales of state shares in Mercator, Istrabenz and Pivovarna Laško continue to take place in the public. This sale caused discomfort among pensioners as they are aware that one of the tasks of KADA is also to ensure the stability of the pension system with its payments. It is not known that KAD was set up under the Act on Privatisation of the State Economy, which is part of the shares, with a total of 10% intended to pay for the past part of employees in the public sector. That is why I ask you, Mr Minister: What share or the amount of assets from the sale of state property in Mercator have you committed to pay or to ensure the stability of the pension system? Both me and the pensioners have the right to know where the funds you get from selling the shares of our property that are managed by the KAD. Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Dr. Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u171	Your Honor! It is true that the capital company was set up for this purpose. The government is aware of this and would also like to achieve this, that we will strengthen this in the future, in order to play this role as a strong support, financial support to the pension system - medium and long term. On the basis of the current legislation and certain agreements, since 1999 and the inclusion of 2005 the CAD has allocated certain funds from its net revenue, namely in 1999 - 1.7 billion, the next year it has fallen to 8.4 billion in 2002 and 6.4 billion in 2003 - 4 and 5. The KAD business and financial plan for 2006 is currently being prepared and will be submitted by the Administration to the Supervisory Board in November. The KAD Assembly will consider it in December 2005. On the draft business and financial plan, this is what the plan now needs to be confirmed in November, and for the purposes of Zpiz in 2006, KAD will allocate funds in a slightly higher amount than in previous years. The proportion of Mercator's sales in this amount is currently unknown and depends on the whole programme, which we do not know at the Ministry and at the government. I will also attach a small table showing that so far the role of KAD, as far as Zpiza is concerned, has changed considerably. This is also evident from these data that I have already provided to you, from 1.1% of the total in 1999 over almost 8% in 2000, and now slightly stabilised, approximately 2.7.6%. This year, from the entire budget of the Republic of Slovenia to Zpiz, on the basis of current legal obligations, additional obligations, this account 74-60 and 63-96 is very likely to result in a transfer of almost 250 billion, of which only now 6.4 by KAD. It is also important what Mr Prime Minister mentioned today when he was asked about the role of the SOD, which is completely different, but the government is aware of this and would also like to strengthen the possibilities of these institutions, especially the KAD, to play this role in the long term, financial support at that time in our future, around 2020, when such an outside aid is really needed or through the resources that the Slovenian budget can provide. For now, of course, we do this every year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u172	Thank you very much. I should like to invite Ambassador Darjo Lovtizar Bebler to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who apologized after 6 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u173	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Minister of Foreign Affairs Dimitrij Rupel wrote to Croatian Foreign Minister Kolinda Grabar Kitarović on 10 October this year proposing that Slovenia and Croatia take advantage of the time when Croatia is preparing for EU membership for constructive talks and resolving open issues in the European spirit. Such a path, as recorded by the Minister, is the best one, as assessed by the EU's representatives. A few days later, the proposal to resolve the border issue within the EU also repeated itself. His proposal is that political officials of the EU should decide which country is right. At the time of the adoption of the law on the proclamation of the ecological zone and the epicontinental zone, Croatia sent an official note and reiterated its views on the first letter and again called on Slovenia to reconsider the decision on the maritime border to transfer it to the international judicial body. The President of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Janez Drnovšek, also believes that there is very little chance that Slovenia and Croatia will resolve the border issue through bilateral negotiations and therefore proposes that the country decide on a neutral institution that will judge on the basis of all the facts that have been made. The President of the Republic has already discussed this with the President of Croatia at the recent meeting of the Central European Presidents in Zagreb. It is expected that it will meet soon and agree even more precisely on the possibility of arbitration. In view of all the above, I would like to ask: How does the Minister view the fact that the presidents of both countries intend to cut down more directly to resolve open issues between countries? Does it not seem to him that it is a signal from our President of the country that we are not approved of the conduct of foreign policy, which, despite the friendly meetings of the two prime ministers, the media-response of the Brionic Declaration and many letters, has led us to a point where insistence on returning to bilateral negotiations is virtually impossible. What the Minister feels about the position of the President of the Republic, Dr Janez Drnovska, that, in the framework of the multilateral negotiations on Croatia's entry into the EU, it would be inappropriate and non-European to blackmail Croatia with a more favourable solution than it could otherwise have achieved. When the previous Berlusconi government blackmailed us before the accession talks, Slovenian diplomats in principle objected. It would therefore be totally inappropriate for Slovenia to try to use a similar method against Croatia now. Is this not unrealistic also because of Slovenia's significantly smaller international political weight within the EU, as did Italy in the EU? I ask the Minister to answer me orally at the next meeting of the National Assembly, because I believe that his answer will still be up to date. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u174	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Bojan Kontic to ask the absent Minister of Economy a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u175	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues! In any event, the response of Minister Viszak at the next meeting of the National Assembly will also be quite up-to-date. During the year since the elections, the government has carried out several appointments to various supervisory councils, even though it has announced the withdrawal of the country from the economy. Even in the case of the gradual withdrawal of the country from the economy, it is very important who are representatives or representatives of the State in the supervisory councils. In doing so, I am certainly thinking of expertise and not just political belonging. The Honourable Minister in absentia, Mag. Visionary, I ask: Does the proposal of candidates and candidates for members and members of the Supervisory Boards take into account their professional references, of course, but it is not possible to dismiss education? Even in cases where the Slovenian Power Plants are holding it on behalf of the Government, this is a very local issue, as these appointments are also the responsibility of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. As an example, I should like to refer to the appointment to the Supervisory Board of the Termoelectrica Šostjanj, for which I would like to be presented with the criteria that had to be met in the appointment. In terms of criteria, I think mainly of the officially recognised degree, education, references, i.e. experience in the field of energy and the functioning of energy systems and, of course, political affiliation, if the Minister is, of course, familiar. I expect an oral response to the next meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u176	Thank you very much. The same minister will also be asked by Dr. Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u177	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Obviously a question raised in absentia, although I would be interested if ministers were to answer in the absence. But certainly. Mr. Vice President, dearly esteemed colleagues and colleagues here in the Chamber! There is nothing better for a member of the opposition than to ask a question to a minister whose question he has already answered. But the minister answered that question not only with words but also with actions. Mr Matjaž Janša, v.d. Director of the Directorate for Electronic Telecommunications has already resigned. However, I intended to ask the question when he intended to propose the replacement of Mr v.d. the director of the Directorate for Electronic Communications in the Telekom Slovenije Supervisory Board because of the notice we received from the European Union? This has already happened and, of course, I definitely welcome such a step. There was no need for it to occur, as we obviously would say that the non-conflict interests have been repeatedly warned, but this has not been overtaken. When a reminder comes, it's just a reminder. At the same time, of course, I believe that membership is also in.d. the director of the Directorate for the Information Society in this Supervisory Board is questionable if not, at least very unhygienic. This Directorate has certain regulatory functions related to the Internet. So-called Internet management. In addition, through this Directorate of Internet Space, the Ministry is also acting directly or through Arnes as a large contracting authority of these services, and there is therefore a possibility of a variety of clienteleistic links. I therefore ask the Minister: Will you suggest to another minister or government that this hygiene step be taken and that you also propose to replace the Director of the Information Society Directorate, who I believe is the least of his membership in this supervisory council, which is unhygienic, if not more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u178	Thank you very much. Mag. Majda Potrat will ask the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u179	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Dear Mr. Minister Petty Officer. My question concerns your ministry's work plan, as set out in the Government's work programme for 2005. Following the footnote that this is a dynamic document to be supplemented, it is expected that the proposed legislative texts will be adopted in due time by the Government and sent to the National Assembly or that a change of dynamics will be announced. As it is a matter of laws in which the participation of professional and non-governmental organisations is necessary, and also of interest to the public, it is surprising that conflicting consciences or even the knowledge that laws will not be prepared are coming to the public. I will only draw attention to the three laws for which the programme states that their admission is mandatory. It is a matter of implementing European directives, such as the Directive on Labour Co-ordination in Shareholders or the recommendations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia when adopting a special report by the Ombudsman on domestic violence, or in the case of cross-cutting, integrated regulation of general social issues, such as the issue of marriage, family relations and family in general. Since these are the issues, and especially those concerning the family covered by the coalition contract, I think they are the priorities of this government, so I ask you: When will the government adopt the proposal for a law on the prevention of domestic violence? How far is a proposal for amendments and a complement to the current law on marriage and family relations prepared? Will this be a family code now? When will a law on the regulation of labour co-ordination under the European Labour Cooperation Directive be drawn up? This is Directive 2001/86/EC and it is already overdue for its implementation - the deadline for the implementation of this Directive expired on 8 October 2004. It is a missed opportunity to correct in the company law what would be given in relation to this Directive. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u180	Thank you very much. Mag. It's a trifle.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u181	Thank you very much, honourable Member, for these questions regarding the enforcement of certain laws and regulations that are important for family policy, the enforcement of co-management of workers and the regulation of marriage and family relations. If you have carefully read the program of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, then you know that these deadlines for receiving these documents have not yet expired, as far as the government is concerned. However, as regards the legislation governing labour co-ordination under the European Labour Cooperation Directive, the deadline is late, which was 8 October last year. This law, the latter, is related to the company law and, of course, it is right to adopt the company law first. The government simply accepted it and it may happen that, of course, this law would be passed a little later. The Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs will prepare it before a change of the company law is actually adopted. With regard to the law on marriage and family relations, there will be no changes to this law, but we want to place this legal matter in the family code in a comprehensive manner. However, as regards the law on the prevention of domestic violence, a strategy will be adopted first. We believe that because the problem is multi-dimensional, it cannot just be the subject of a specific law, but certainly changes in criminal law, and perhaps elsewhere in the criminal code. We therefore intend to regulate a certain matter in these individual laws, and the national programme against domestic violence will certainly be adopted. This also means operational work on the ground, not only amending legislation, but also broader in other sectors. Finally, with the necessary emphasis in school education and in some other sectors. We have a serious intention to prepare and implement this.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u182	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u183	Thank you for what you said, Mr. Secretary. I have already warned you myself that some things could be regulated in the company law that would suggest co-ordination. Regrettably, however, there are changes in the company law in the other direction and it is difficult to believe that the directive will be implemented in the same way as it states. As regards the law on the prevention of domestic violence, my concern is so much greater because it has been possible in public to read that you do not intend to adopt such a law at all and that this is partly covered by the debate on the special report of the Ombudsman, because it was very difficult to convince v.d. the director of the Directorate, that the treatment of domestic violence should be placed in a special law. Last but not least, you know well enough that we have already discussed this problem in the previous term, which is also perceived by international institutions when they talk about the state of human rights in Slovenia. Domestic violence, violence against women is one of the biggest problems of this society as regards human rights violations. So I ask you: Is it not now to start the story completely again, after the inter-ministerial coordination between the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Labour, the Family and Social Affairs, the Ministry of Health was already very far from being designated as a special expert council, he was meeting, he prepared a lot of things when the draft law is already written, is it really necessary to put everything on ice and say, first we will adopt a national strategy, and then we will see if the law is necessary? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u184	Thank you. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Dear Member! No, you don't have to put things on ice, definitely not. See, certain legal matter would certainly be subject to a criminal code, which must also be supplemented in this respect. However, the text of the law, the draft which was prepared and received from professional colleagues at the Ministry of Labour, does not meet the requirements that they can actually prosecute or prevent domestic violence. Because it is written in a declaration and has insufficient implementing provisions. In the sense of prevention, sanctioning is an empty law. Therefore, in our view and in the opinion of the experts, this provision must certainly also be incorporated into the criminal code. Of course, I share with you the concern about this area, which is worth our thorough attention. Certainly not our intention to avoid it. This warning of yours can be added to the fact that we will also meet in the framework of the family council in our ministry with these questions, for sure.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u186	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Mag's turn. Franz Capuder, who will ask the Minister of Transport a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u187	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Your Honor! This summer, Krtina was opened on the Maribor-Ljubljana motorway. In the basic regulation on the location plan for the construction of the highway along the valley of Black Grabna, only the front toll station in Compola was envisaged. Regrettably, the toll collection business continued differently, as the previous government decided in 2001 to build additional toll stations in Vodice, Ivančni gorica, Krtina and Lukovica, and the Vogrsko toll station. As I am aware, they have been built and operate only two so far, on Krtina and in Lukovica. The construction of the toll station on Krtina itself has raised a lot of dust due to congestion in the area. Even now, the natives of the Age and Krtina have to bear daily traffic loads of all those vehicles which are not few, which avoid toll payments at the Krtina connection and prefer to join the highway in Domžalje, where the toll station is not. To drive through the toll station on Krtina until the break-up in Zadorova at a length of around 11.7 km, it is necessary to pay for the toll of 130 tolls on a passenger car. However, what greatly disturbs all users of the highway connection on Krtina is that users of the highway from the route to Ljubljana, which joins Vrhnika on the highway, pay for the journey from Vrhnika to Kozarje, at a significantly larger distance of 14.8 kilometers, where the highway joins the city ring, only 70 tolars. Therefore, I ask the Minister: What do you intend to do to equalise the users of the motorway sections of Krtina-Ljubljana and Vrhnika-Ljubljana with regard to the payment of the toll? I also ask him: Would it not be possible, like at Vrhnika, to reduce the toll level on connections in Krtina and Lukovica, with the use of these two connections being increased? By increasing the use of these two connections in the final mass, despite the lower toll, they could achieve or even exceed the total toll payments at this toll station. I ask the Minister: When will the toll stations in Vodice and Ivančni Gorica be completed? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u188	Thank you very much. Mag. Christmas.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u189	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Mr Member, thank you for asking. For the construction of additional toll stations, the current open toll system is being upgraded in a way that reduces the possibility of toll-free operations by their location in the vicinity of the main toll stations. With the gradual closure of the toll system, users of motorways are equalized and the financial conditions for the construction of motorways are improved. Additional toll stations Lukovica and Krtina started building in 2004 and were on the show [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] Physically already 60% realized. [[...]] The construction of additional toll stations in Vodice, Ivančni Gorica and Vogreska has been delayed for the time being, but the final construction decision will certainly be affected by the fact that by the end of 2006, the process of introducing electronic tolls in free traffic will be initiated, and by the end of 2008 it will be established on the entire network. The dissimilarity of the current toll system you are referring to in your question is also due, among other things, to some of the initiatives and decisions of the National Assembly since 1995 when we started introducing the so-called open toll system in Slovenia. From this point forward, the consequences of this wrong decision have only been corrected by gradually reducing the attractiveness of transporting toll stations by upgrading the motorway cross and setting up new toll stations, which you also point out in your questions. At the same time, due to additional toll stations, we also ensured an acceptable increase in the financial flow from tolls so that the development of the national highway construction programme was not jeopardised. However, we have even shown calculations that, despite possible reductions in the basic volume of the toll, we would achieve an equalisation of all users of the motorways under the basic assumption that all users would pay the toll. Today we find only about 60% of the purchases based on actual traffic on highways. Let me therefore reiterate that all initiatives that further distort the toll system are unacceptable to us at this time. The Ministry of Transport sees greater flexibility of price policy in charging the cost of certain roads and the active impact on traffic density in terms of, for the first time, the fair charging of tolls on actually transported kilometres, secondly, taking into account the negative effects of transport on the environment and society. Several times and in various documents, we have stressed that we are planning a gradual electronic closure of the toll system and that the deadline for introduction is already set, this is the end of 2008. The accelerated movement in this direction also shows, among other things, changes to the Law on Public Roads, in which, in addition to the abolition of non-compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia in the field of tolls, the principles of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of June 1999 on the charging of heavy goods vehicles for the use of certain infrastructures are further transposed into our legislation. These are the so-called Euro Guilling Directives, in the toll-related work. We have also transposed the principles of the European Parliament and the Council Directive of April 2004 on the interoperability of electronic toll systems in the public roads law. In accordance with the amendments to the Law on Public Roads adopted by the National Assembly on 18 October this year, we also need to amend the Toll Regulation for certain roads in November, in which we will also set a transitional period for the electronic closure of the toll system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u190	Thank you very much. And the last, in the so-called first round, is Alojz Sok, who will ask the question of the absent Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u191	Thank you very much. I will ask the question, despite the fact that the Minister is not, in order to answer me at the next meeting. Before I ask you a question, I would like to welcome all the ministers and colleagues present. The question will be brief. It is clear that the former Government of the food processing industry has not prepared to enter the EU. This is reflected every day. Lately, there has been an extremely recent export of milk to Italy. More and more farmers are doing this. The price is, of course, stimulating at this point and actually leads to this. The question, of course, is: What would happen if something similar to what we all talk about today about this bird flu, the greatest benefit of which would actually be the pharmacy if something similar happened in cattle? We all know that cattle are in fact the most important agricultural activity in Slovenia, and if any similar phenomenon closes the borders. I think that, if not the other, the government should point out to those who are making the most of the exports at this time. This is also what I wanted to ask the Minister: Can the government do anything in this direction that - of course, this process cannot be stopped - at least under the hypothesis of any unforeseen events in the near or further future, this process could be put to some extent to a halt if it is not prevented? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u192	Thank you very much. This brings us to the second question of Members and Members. Given my presence, I'd like to invite a mag. Majdo Potrato to ask the Minister of Public Administration a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u193	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister Dr. Virant! Your performances in the public often revolve around three labels, namely efficiency, kindness and quality of administration. My question will not be about the amendment of the Law on Public Servants, which is subject to different views, but I would like to ask you something that relates to the human resources policy of this government. The major objectives set by the Public Servants Act, adopted in June 2002, are, in summary, the following four objectives: the distinction between officials and officials - if I say so in the new New Coalition, that is the political compatibility expected from officials and the non-political position of officials, the greater expertise of the administration, the greater stability of the administration, the administration is not expected to be dependent on political changes, and the career system of progress. If one year after the coming of the ruling coalition, I can, however, be sure to say that many of the above objectives have been slightly delayed. I am not referring, as it were, to the law, but to some statistics, but also to the warnings of employees and others who are monitoring developments in public administration. In this regard, the key question is whether we will achieve an effective, friendly and quality service with constant pressure on employees. But the strongest pressure on employees is certainly the uncertainty of the individual's position, and that is exactly what I would like to point out. The uncertainty is reflected in several levels and I would point to this, but only two ministries are appointed directors or directors of the Directorates. According to statistics, out of 56 Directorates at 31 still v.d. Statistics show high fluctuations, so I ask you: When will the directors and directors of all Directorates be appointed? How do you think the efficiency and quality of work are affected by the high fluctuation in ministries and how the uncertainty brought about by the announced amendments to the Law on Public Servants? This is where I think mainly about the retirement provisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u194	Thank you very much. Minister Dr. Virant.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Given the relatively limited time to answer, I'd start with numbers, i.e. statistics. The set of directors covered by the provisions of the Law on Public Servants, which discuss the selection through the Commissions of the Official Council, i.e. for which a special selection and appointment regime is provided, shall include the heads of bodies composed of ministries, government services, chiefs of administrative units, directors of directors and secretaries-general of ministries. Now, if I follow these key categories, there are now 40 permanent directors and three performers of responsibility in the bodies of the ministries. However, if I say one more thing about the numbers, how many of these directors have been appointed already in the mandate of the previous government: 35 directors of the 42s have remained, 7 are new, of which only 2 have been replaced under the amendment of the Law on Public Servants, and in other cases procedures that have not been carried out in the previous mandate have simply been carried out. So, we had a v.d.-is before, and then the procedure was completed and the appointed Director was based on this procedure. In government services, these are the services that are directly subordinated to the Prime Minister or to the Secretary-General: nine directors who have been appointed in the previous term have been replaced, two have been replaced, the Director of the Department of Secret Information and the Director of the Government Information Centre, and there are only two government officials out of these 10. In administrative units, in 54 cases, the names of the chiefs remained unchanged, the exchange took place in the case of Kranj, Kopra, Sevnice, Hrastnik and also Postojna, for various reasons, because this moment we have three v.d.- because the procedures are running - this is true for two, for Postojna and Hrastnik. In one case, the chief went to our ministry as director, but in another case it was a disease. In fact, statistics are around the same as you said, so 35 are definitively appointed and 29 are still performing duties, but only three have been appointed in the mandate of the previous government, of which two remain, in one case there has been an agreement breakup. So, in my opinion, this statistics are completely non-problem in administrative units at the office of ministries and in government services. In the Directorates, I myself have been working very hard on this question, why there are still so many directors in the status of V.D. The reasons are different. First of all, procedures through the official council have been quite lengthy. In some cases, the Commission found that no candidate was eligible. In some cases, ministers have decided to repeat the proceedings, but there are also cases where the Minister has not yet decided to repeat the procedure and has not proposed any candidates. It should be said that the appointment of the Director-General is a very important and long-term human resources decision, since the Director-General is one of the key co-workers of the Minister in policy-making, i.e. the 'policy making', in policy-making, in the creation of legislation and regulations. I must say that the perpetrators of duties have all the full powers, all the same rights, including pay. I must also recall that in the previous mandate, with the amendment of the legislation of 28.6.2003, there was a situation where the directors of all government services, all Directorates or all government services and all bodies in the composition of the status in d.o.b., were functioning normally. Therefore, statistics show that about one fifth of the top directors are still in V.D. status, which in my opinion is not a major problem. If we look years ago, this was before the law came into force, virtually all these directors were appointed not only without invitations, but also without establishing formal conditions for appointment to these places. I hope that if you ask for further questions or if you ask for an extension of the answer, I will be able to open another minute of time for an additional explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u196	Thank you very much. Complementary response.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u197	Thank you for this part about the directorates of the directorates. I agree with you, I have some statistics from mid-July that say that the number of candidates for 61 public competitions and 11 internal competitions 281, which means that the people who were willing to do so have been taken over a lot, although some cities no longer have candidates, because the uncertainty of the large and official council is also concerned about whether its work is really sufficiently taken into account if only 21 officials have been appointed from 53 competitions by the government. As it is said, July 15th has this date of information. But there is something else I would like to ask you further so that you can answer this part of the question. I was also asking about the fluctuation. There's been a lot of changes. In these cases, when it comes to fluctuation, is it also about new jobs? For example - you said on Friday at a public presentation that some officials are burning up in jobs. How's it going with officials being sick? How's absence? In those statistics where the reduction in the number of employees is shown, are they taken into account, excluded or abandoned: those on maternity leave or those on parental leave or those on extended hospital leave? These are the questions that I think can also speak about the quality of the work of public administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u198	Thank you. Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u199	Thank you very much. A whole series of questions have been raised here and I would first try to answer the question of uncertainty. I don't think there's any uncertainty. If you think this is a matter of uncertainty in the case of those who are appointed to perform duties, it would be very difficult to talk about it. Some of these people have run for office and others have not run for office. And this number, the number of candidates on the tenders, is one thing, and the other, of course, is how many candidates the official council or commissions have let through as appropriate. And there were quite a few cases where there were no suitable candidates, and very many cases when there was, say, a suitable candidate alone. And then the minister is in a situation where he has to make this really long-term human resources decision, whether he will choose the only candidate that the Commission has chosen for him, whether he will go into a repeat invitation to tender, whether he will give some thought and so on. Otherwise, I'll say again, a huge number, four-fifths, of top state officials are now in permanent status. If we look at, say, the situation before the implementation of the Civil Servants Act, all those who are doing this work today were, by this logic, completely insecure status. All the heads of bodies in the composition, all the heads of government services, whenever they were appointed as officials and were placed on some pre-charist basis, which means that they could have been replaced at any time. The secretaries of the State, who previously played a different role, have a very similar or identical role to that of the directors of the Directorates. They were headed by Directorates, they ran round-the-clock work areas within the Ministry. In no way do I find this situation critical. Now the answer to the question of fluctuation. Fluctuation in this year - I consider the arrivals and departures to be a fluctuation, especially the departures could be problematic if more departures have taken place than the previous years. Data show that fluctuation is completely normal this year or even slightly lower than in previous years. Half-year data is 606 departures, estimated at annual level 1.912 in previous years, I have been speaking since 2000, 1.982, 1.329, 1.328 and so on since there have been more fluctuations. As far as counting is concerned, you probably think - the question is the criterion on the methodology, how do we determine how many employees in the administration are at some point. We have been told several times that we have changed this methodology to artificially reduce the number of employees. A concrete answer: if the worker goes on maternity leave, of course, we consider that the body works with one person less than it makes sense; and if it does not replace, if it does not achieve replacement employment, then we consider that he has saved one job at that time. However, if it realizes replacement employment, we consider it to have remained at the same number.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u200	Thank you very much. We've gone to the end and it's Franc Kangler's turn to ask the Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u201	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister! My parliamentary question concerns the public institution RTV Slovenia. As you are aware, RTV Slovenia has two regional centres. One regional centre is in Maribor, which currently has 144 regular employees plus about 70 contract workers and covers the entire northeastern Slovenia, along with the Hungarian nationality of around 6,000. The second centre is in Cyprus, where the number of regular employees is significantly higher than the number of employees in the regional centre in Maribor, namely 294 workers plus about 70 contractors, for Italian nationality, which is about 2,000. So in Maribor they work programs from Radio Maribor, Radio Slovenia International, Television Maribor MR - Hungarian radio and four times similar TV Hungary gives a week. We can also watch the Hungarian show in Styria with Slovenian subtitles and thus monitor the activity of the Hungarian minority in Prekmurje, while the programmes in Italian on TV Koper-Capodistria Slovenians cannot be monitored with subtitles in Slovenian. My question relates to this, given that the Maribor public service outflow imposes a billion 200 million a year, while for the second RTV centre, along with the radio, for Koper, applies 2 billion. According to unverified information within RTV, in my personal opinion, it is somewhat too late to rationalise. However, rationalisation takes place in such a way that some employees in the RTV Centre Maribor are also injured in their advancements or in new decisions and their coefficients are slightly different than they were in the past. What I find very funny and reckless is that rationalisation takes place where it is least necessary, according to the statistics we compare. That is why I ask you, Mr. Secretary: We passed the law on RTV Slovenia and then it was part of the referendum. In view of the solutions provided for by the law, I am interested in: When will the envisaged procedures under the law take place, and when and how does the Ministry plan to reorganise RTV Slovenia? We will again, Styers and Prekmurci and Korosci, those who supported the referendum, pay their price by reorganising and rationalising the administration [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u202	Time will run out.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u203	RTV center Maribor? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u204	Thank you very much. Minister Dr. Simonita.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u205	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for asking. This is how I would answer; given the question of when the envisaged procedures will be initiated under the law adopted and approved at the referendum. Procedures allowed by the law when it enters into force. The law will enter into force around 10-12 November, depending on when the President of the Republic signs this law, must sign this week, must then go to the Official Journal and must then enter into force within a certain period of time provided for by the law and be in force until 10-12 November. So when it comes into force, procedures will be able to run for all those things that will allow a new organisation of the house to be set up, that is, leadership and everything that follows. On this basis, I hope that there will also be positive changes that will show up in the management and management of the institution itself and in this regard also in the field of human resources policy itself. The Staff, Organizational and Financial Affairs will also be subject to the statutes which the Supervisory Committee will have to adopt within six months at the latest. Therefore, it follows that RTV Slovenia is a public institution which is independent and independent in terms of regulating internal conditions and relations, so that the Ministry of Culture does not have any powers to intervene in regulating personnel or organisational matters. This, as I said, is regulated by the RTV Public Service, and, of course, the basis for this is in the newly adopted law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-24-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u206	Thank you very much. Would you like to complete the answer? With this, I thank the Prime Minister and all the ministers for their answers; you, dear Members and Members for your questions and those you still insist on, for your patience. I hereby conclude this agenda item and interrupt the 10th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. Have a nice fall night and a quiet night. Thank you very much.
