ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon! We continue the 4th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: only Bevk from 1300 hours away, mag. Franz Žnidaršič, Dr. Marko Pavliha and colleague Bogdan Barovic. We're moving to 2. PERIOD OF THE DAY - ANOTHER DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF A LEGISLATION ON THE EXTERNAL PARTNERSHIP. In doing so, I would like to inform you that the total time of discussion is 40 minutes. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by a group of Members with the first signed Majdo Shirca. With regard to this law, the Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons Committee proposes to the National Assembly that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. On the basis of the third paragraph of Rule 134 of the Rules of Procedure, I give the floor first to the representative of the proposed law, Ms Majdi Širca, to further explain the proposal for a law. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u2	Your Honor! Not for the first time that the Minister of Labor is absent! By rejecting this bill, expressed both on the Labour Committee, the family and the disabled and on the Committee on Petitions, equal opportunities and human rights, the government of Janez Janša has been working with all possible arrogance for years to work towards the legal regulation of same-sex partnerships. Why am I talking about arrogance? Because with the position of power and weak arguments, the government of Janez Janša beats the wishes and rights of a group of citizens and citizens who are in line with the law and because, under the cover of the financial burdens that the same-sex partnership should bring to society, it misleads citizens and citizens that gays and lesbians are costs to the state. Although we all know that such partnerships would only strengthen solidarity, mutual assistance and happiness. The last government doesn't care about Janez Janša. The government of Janez Janša also does not care if NGOs ask her to support our law, which has helped to co-create and reach an appropriate consensus on it. The government of Janez Janša does not care that potential users of the law oppose a new version that will or should replace our marriage. The government of Janez Janša uses exclusive power and a double face. He says he wants to settle this issue, but he deals with it the way he likes it and his valuable system, not like gays and lesbians and most European countries do. The government of Janez Janša argues that marriages will make it possible, knowing that the members of the European Union will, however, put pressure on Slovenia if we do not respect the fundamental values and resolutions of the European Union. He fears that the conservative government is wasting new energy on an already defined and defined consensus and forming a new law. I suppose one where good solutions are not important and where it does not matter whether they are useful or not, only that they will be and that they will remain silent in the European Union. The government of Janez Janša disciplined two coalition parties who agreed to the law last year when they were in the second coalition. This year, a democratic party of pensioners forgot about yesterday's democracy and its signature under this bill. The Slovenian People's Party, for which we have been coordinating this marriage for months and months, as long as it has not agreed with it, it has obviously only been playing with him, us and the users in particular. Thus he acted not to say a play, former Member Drobnic, today a percentage minister who, as the first under-signed, demanded a general debate and thereby indirectly blocked the adoption of the law in the previous term. And what does the government of John Janša say about our marriage? If you look at the explanation, it says that it does not contain an accurate assessment of the financial implications, which of course is not true. The law accurately mentions the financial implications of approximately 10 million tolars for the computer program and the exposure of the system. And it is obvious that the government that brings into the National Assembly laws that affect, strongly interfere with the state budget and the economic status of the country without calculating the financial consequences at all. The government is further disturbed by the form of a partnership, since in our marriage, this form reminds us of what is in force in marriage. And in fact, the legal link to marriage and family is a key symptom of the government's holding. She is disturbed by the manifestation of an external relationship and says that a same-sex partnership should not be concluded in the same way as a marriage, but the government does not know that a marriage can be concluded in any way, as anyone wants, so spectacularly, with an emphasis on ritual or anonymity. And we're not suggesting anything else. We leave people to their will and their wishes. In short, we regret that you do not support the law that is supported by those who truly want legitimate partnerships. When a European MEP from the Netherlands visited Slovenia recently, one of the signatories to the call [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u3	Mrs Shirca, please allow me to remind you that you have just violated the rules of procedure adopted under Mr Rob's rule. Please, if you finish.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u4	How? I didn't understand you. Can you repeat that?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u5	The Rules of Procedure adopted in the previous term under the rule of Mr Tonet Rope have just been violated. Please, if you finish your thought, you're out of time for 36 seconds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u6	Given the fact that I had exceeded the time allowed by Mr Bayuk for a minute and 20 seconds on my questions yesterday, allow me to finish my sentence, Mr Vice-President.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u7	Mrs. Shirca, I'll just give you a sentence. You won't have a minute under me. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u8	Mrs. Bajuk said yesterday that you did not interrupt or that your colleagues did not interrupt. [[...]] [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u9	Mrs. Shirca, turn to them with this. I believe that you have the practice of referring to a business commission to keep this up to date, please allow the meeting of the national assembly to continue.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u10	Do you mind if I finish the sentence or not?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u11	If you stick to the word and just the sentence, then go ahead.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u12	In short, Sofia Welt said that, at present, Slovenia is the only one where there is a visible decline in the exercise of the same-sex rights and called on Slovenia, perhaps if possible, to reconsider its decision on this law, since it is not yet in the Middle Ages in Catholic Spain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u13	Thank you, Mrs. Shirca. We are moving on to a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The first presentation of the positions will be presented by the New Slovenia Group, mag. Franz Capuder. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u14	Your Honor! We have before us a bill on the same-sex partnership. The former ruling suit promised the same sexual orientation throughout its reign. At the end of the mandate of the previous reference, it was submitted to the National Assembly by the current Government and withdrawn from the procedure. Homosexuality as a form of sexual orientation is not a fruit of modern society, it has been present since the very beginning, only the relationship to it has changed. In modern times, homosexuality is not criminalised in our and other democratic countries, and more and more countries have rules that explicitly prohibit discrimination based on sexual orientation. Lawmakers and lawmakers talk about taking social circumstances into account in the drafting of the law in Slovenia and referring to the lack of homosexual rights in our country. In New Slovenia, we are convinced that, in the absence and deprivation of human rights, homosexuals would speak only if they were criminally persecuted or abused by the State because of their tendencies or lifestyle, but we find that in our country, there is a strong media emphasis on this way of sex life, while traditional values such as law, marriage and family are often seen as something old-fashioned, not as something necessary for the healthy development of our society. The efforts to promote the social recognition of homosexuality that they so desire, in many ways, point to the fact that the aim of the proposed law is not only an same-sex marriage, but rather the promotion of homosexuality with State aid, which is intended to eliminate the negative ethical sign of such a partnership choice. I am afraid that in a similar way, the legislator could also legislate another sexual practice or lifestyle that is not yet socially and civilised in our cultural environment, but is legally applied in another environment. The proposed law on the same-sex partnership is adapted under the law on marriage. It grants the same rights and duties to same-sex partners as heterosexuals, with the exception of the right to adopt children. They could inherit by partner, they could be recognised as joint property, they could be socially and pensionally insured by their partner, and the conclusion of the same-sex community would be similar to the current civil marriage before the parent. In New Slovenia we do not deny to homosexual communities the rights they belong to, but we cannot equate homosexual and heterosexual communities. We want them to organize themselves and put themselves in society in a specific and independent way that will be autonomous and independent. Each individual shall act in a life-style manner and no one shall have the right to interfere with the autonomy of the individual. Marriage can't equal something that can't be even. In Novi Slovenija we are aware that the country must place marriage and family at the centre, not for religious or ideological reasons, not out of sympathy or compassion, but with a real view of the logical contexts of our demographic development. In order to survive the company which the State serves, the State must declare itself entitled to legal privileges and financial support for the family as a central project of its own future. Homosexual living communities are far from fulfilling the tasks that make the marriage community of men and women and the family deserve special social recognition and concern. If it were to constitute the law of two persons of different sexes from a legal point of view only one of the possible forms of marriage, it would fundamentally change the concept of law and bring great harm to the common good. We cannot support this in Novi Slovenija. Due to our understanding of the marriage of husband and wife and family, as also referred to in Article 53 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, Nova Slovenija remains a party that strongly supports the law and family in its existing and only possible form, and we do not oppose the relevant legal arrangements in the field of the same-sex partnership. Of course, we will not support the proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u15	Thank you for the position of the New Slovenia Group of Members and thank you for sticking to the expected time. We continue to present the views of the groups of Members. I invite the representative of the Slovenian People's Party's Group, Mr Stanislav Brenčič, to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u16	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government! In the Slovenian People's Party Group, we are aware of the fact that life in Slovenian modern pro-European society is becoming more marked by a variety of diversity than ever before and that we owe it to each other to recognize and respect each other. In doing so, however, we also advocate the view that we cannot do so by reducing some of the values that have contributed to the preservation and spiritual growth of our nation. At this stage, we also accept the issues related to the regulation of the relationship between two persons of the same sex who live or want to live in a partnership relationship as issues that need to be addressed within the meaning of the civilisation standard. In this regard, in the Slovenian People's Party Group, as partners of the previous government coalition, after the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs, this issue was decided by the Ministry of Labour, Social Affairs and the people with disabilities to resolve this issue by means of a proposal for a partnership law, which, as a starting point for us in many ways, was unacceptable, even a constructive approach to creating a substantive and formal image of the then proposed law. Our basic starting point was then and exactly the same today that issues of the same-sex partnership could not be resolved in the form of a replication of the provisions of the law on marriage and family relations, as such a measure would act in the sense of positive discrimination against the fundamental postulate of the marriage relationship, which is certainly the creation of a family that makes it into this law, namely, the law on marriage and family relations, and also a special concern and attention of the State. Equalising the same-sex partnership with marriage, especially in the same scope of rights, would mean a risky act for society, as this would raise the same-sex partnership to the level of what is generally desirable. The proposal for a law on the same-sex partnership, which was built on the concept of the conclusion of this relationship, was supported by the Slovenian People's Party in its first reading in the previous reference to the National Assembly, stressing that the area of rights that go to partners in this regard in other areas of social relations will need to be further addressed in the law. The proposal for a law, the appropriateness of which for further consideration by the National Assembly is decided upon by the decision of the home labour body today, is exactly the same as this proposal. The Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and the disabled of the current government have decided that the issue of same-sex partnerships will be resolved on the basis of a different concept, which sets out the starting point of the law with which these issues will be resolved, so differently that the government has assessed that a proposal for a new law is being prepared and submitted to the national assembly for the procedure. The Slovenian People's Party will also contribute constructively to the final content of the new proposal, as it has done so far, which will certainly contribute to the adoption of this law and thus at least to the key expectations of those to whom the law is intended. In doing so, I would like to point out that it is not by any means true that the Slovenian People's Party has played a role in the formulation of the final content and the form of the law of the previous government. It is true, however, that the Slovenian People's Party has helped to ensure that the bill was also sufficiently widely accepted, which also confirms that it received the support of the State Assembly at first reading. Indeed, some others were playing with a fig in their pocket. For this reason, the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group will support the proposal for a decision forwarded to the national assembly by its mother's working body. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u17	Thank you for the position of the Slovenian People's Party. I give the floor to the representative of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group, Barbara Žgajner Tavš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u18	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and esteemed colleagues! In the framework of the bill we are considering today, I would first like to highlight the debate at the meeting of the home working body of the national assembly. That this is a sensitive subject in one way or another, I believe we all agree more or less. It is also a fact that open issues must be resolved on behalf of ensuring the rights and obligations of common life. But practice should let you know that excessive aggression is not good to impose, so I'll say internal beliefs. This is where I think about the law-makers. A constructive debate on such topics is clearly unknown to them, in principle, whether you are with us or against us. This is illustrated by the interesting list of expressions used — cannibal, homophob, xenophob, and could still be listed. Really, not a very nice word, so that those who utter them may warn themselves, in their desire to blacken others, often all the time rather than justly. Therefore, it is not possible to justify this type of impatience under the cover of a profession, one such or another. This is the institution of the Ombudsman, a broader view of sociological sciences, journalism and, last but not least, a psychiatrist. In the Liberal Democracy and the United List of Social Democrats, they obviously see only one and the only real solution, that is to say the one they are proposing. And these people began to open this issue just before the currents, before the national elections. Why not before? Because it obviously wasn't really in the interest of their policy. However, this must not be an argument for anyone who sits in this national assembly, especially if it comes from the kind of ruling coalition, to say that it will not, however, support the said law or debate, because the applicants did not bring the law under the roof at the time they were in power. But it is true - and this is, of course, part of the resentment against past authorities - that in 1997 the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs joined or at least committed itself to drafting a law on registered partnerships under the LDS. And we couldn't find the law in reviewing the paperwork. Transfiguration? The Danish case has seven articles. The Slovenian government has not been able to do so, despite the many years of efforts we have heard today. According to the Slovenian National Party, Article 14 of the Constitution is sufficiently clear and gives important meaning to what we are talking about today. And since this is a human rights issue, it has led more or less clearly. Finally, the practice in the Republic of Slovenia has been such that it takes a comprehensive approach to the solution. To this end, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is in charge of its policy in the first place and, according to the assurances of the representative on the working body of the Slovenian National Party, we have also given priority to the government law that is supposed to be being prepared. I am certainly disturbed by the ignorant attitude of Minister Drobnic, but not only by the same-sex question. It is sad that the Minister responsible for this area was not at the working body of the National Assembly, that he was not present in addressing important social issues and that the Government's views are often unclear if government representatives are able or hopeful to take a position. We hope that the new government will not repeat the old story of vehementity without borders, taking into account the actual situation and social needs. Last but not least, according to the Slovenian National Party, a set of standards that lives with society and for society. Society's developing. Something that was abnormal yesterday is allowed today, and perhaps tomorrow will be accepted as something completely normal. But under the new policy, it can get even the status of the forbidden. And I'm going to end with a word about the law itself. The law, at least that is the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, is largely a copy of the law on marriage. I would, of course, also like to draw attention to the institution of marriage, which aims to create a family. It is therefore a relationship between parents and children who enjoy special protection of the state. If we want to give the marriage a new dimension, this will have to open the question of redefining the family as soon as possible. Here I ask myself whether Slovenia really needs this at a given time. And just a sentence for the end. Once again, I would like to point out that the rights and obligations in this context are also an unhealthy and unethical comparison of the registration of same-sex partners with the registration of a car. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u19	Thank you for giving me your point of view. But I can't say thank you for sticking to the weather. We are moving on to a presentation on the position of the DeSUS Group. Comrade Willy Rezman, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u20	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. The problem that's serious is we've been trying to get into DeSUS seriously and thoroughly. I'll present our position. Above all, we fear that it is a delay, that this moment is still a time of missed opportunities. The first was delayed when there was sufficient consensus, when there was enough power, and the will was run out and this law, which is now in the process of adoption, was not adopted. In this we can only wept and regret without looking for the culprits in particular now. Secondly, we regret the fact that, as is the case with debates now and as it has been through working bodies and other working meetings, this law does not seem to have much room for adoption, although it would be necessary for it to be adopted. We regret that the new law, which is stipulated to be reduced, significantly reduces the level of protection for the same sexes in view of what is now in the procedure. This proposal, which has been in the procedure, has experienced some rejection, rejection of the government, rejection of the parent's working body, mostly, has experienced rejection in the majority of the government's coalition. And by the way, let me mention that there was no discipline of Mr Janez Janša, at least DeSUS's group, no attempt was made to discipline us. Probably because the will of the government doesn't have you to discipline someone or maybe because it knows that DeSUS's group can't be disciplined. However, some of the proposals that are in the process are supported, and DeSUS's group is the one that supports it as proposed. We do not understand this as the privilege of any particular social group, but rather as the elimination of discrimination, which is now more than obvious. By the way, let me remind you that one of the European countries that adopted such a law addressed the law as a law to eliminate discrimination against same-sex communities. In DeSUS, we also advocate that a relatively high and dense network of social and health and other protections be maintained. We advocate that, if possible, it will be further improved in individual areas and we advocate what we have written down in the Constitution in order to be a rule of law. The rule of law, however, ensures that areas that are subordinated are regulated. And now we have one chance of correcting what is subnormal. We believe that it is necessary to take an affirmative, positive approach to this problem, that if it were given, that the law would really be adopted, proud of it, and that it is not necessary to be satisfied if we simply accept something, even if those most affected do not accept it or even reject it. Although the government is against, although the mother's working body is against it, in the DeSUS Group we will not support the proposal proposed by the mother's working body and we support the proposal in the procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u21	Thank you for your position. I would like to invite a representative of the SDS Group, Mrs Eva Irgle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u22	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The proposal for the law of the Group of Members on the same-sex partnership is not substantively different from the proposal for a law on the same-sex partnership that the current government has withdrawn from the legislative procedure, with a view to drafting a new bill to regulate the same social relationship. The proposers of the same-sex partnership law state that the first and fundamental objective of the law is to regulate the legal status of same-sex partnerships. At the same time, they state that in regulating the legal status of the partnerships in addition to the legal system framework, they also took into account the social circumstances in the Slovenian space. The applicants state that the same-sex partnership does not compare with the marriage union as a living community, either symbolically or formally, but it should be noted that the provisions in the bill nevertheless follow the provisions of the Marriage and Family Relations Act, which treat the family as the basic value of today's society and compare it in this respect with the marriage of husband and wife. The Law on Marriage and Family Relations is designed to protect children who represent the weakest member of society and not ultimately depend on the future of society and the state itself. The primary purpose of legislation governing marriage and family relations is not to regulate relations between husband and wife, for the law imposes on them a type of duty and duties, all on behalf of child protection. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia already stipulates that children enjoy special protection and care, with children enjoying human rights and fundamental freedoms in accordance with age and maturity. The legally regulated area of the marriage and the non-legislative community contains human rights and vital interests in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The same sexual relationship does not have such a value because there is no consensus in today's society that the same-sex community can also be an appropriate environment for the development and upbringing of children. A socially accepted opinion is that it is best for a child to live in a regulated family of mothers and fathers, which must be encouraged and supported by appropriate measures at the normative level for that country. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we are aware that the existence of same-sex unions is a social fact, and we therefore support the decision to regulate this area in a normative manner, because we want to facilitate the social situation of the same-sex people, although all the problems they face can be arranged contractually after the current legislation. In the SDS Group, we also believe that, in order to pursue the objective of facilitating social life, the same sexual orientation would be sufficient if the same-sex partners and partners were allowed to register their communities, as we have already said, absolutely opposed to having same-sex relationships equalize anything with the marriage community of people of different sexes. The registration of the same-sex community would thus fully address the complications faced by the same-sex partners that are most pronounced in the property legal field. It has also been evident from today's discussions that some or some are very fascinated by the so-called full presence of Mr Janez Janša. Of course, we look forward to that. However, all the committees and commissions were told, on all the committees responsible for addressing this issue, there was one and the same question that had not been answered: how could it be that the previous government, led by Anton Rope, had not been able to adopt this law in eight years of coordination with non-governmental organisations. The fact is, you had the majority, and you couldn't take advantage of it. Therefore, we can logically conclude that you did not even want to do so and that it was simply a matter of misdirection. It would be unrealistic and ridiculous to expect the current government to do so in the first months of its term of office, especially since you, the previous coalition and the government, under the leadership of Mr Anton Rope, have failed in eight years. The current government actually wants to regulate this area, cooperate with NGOs, but they have to pull the fig out of their pockets and actually act in favour of the government proposal if they really want to solve this problem. The government wants to do so in a way that is in place in most European countries where this area is regulated by the registration of same-sex partnerships, with the exception of Belgium and the Netherlands, where negative trends may sometimes be excessively liberal, as is the case with the Saturday Annex. [[End warning sign]] said famous Dutch analyst Paul Scheffer. Perhaps, however, same-sex activists want to regulate this area legally because national regulation on homosexuality would establish it as acceptable and in some way confirm it. The proposal for a law on the same-sex partnership community is already being prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we support the decision taken by the mother labour body that the same-sex partnership law is not appropriate [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u23	Colleague Irgle, please finish or I'll be forced to turn off your microphone.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u24	for further consideration. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u25	Thank you. It seems that today all parliamentary groups, with the exception of one or two, are very eloquent. We are moving on to a presentation of the position of the Member Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Mrs. Majda Shirtz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u26	True, society with its principles and values is changing. Such sensitive topics as same-sex partnerships need time. That's what you're all finding out today, including those you're not cut out for this time. They need a lot of time. And the proof of that is this law. From the first flabby articles of gays and lesbians, from the first public expressions of theoretical thoughts, debates and various events, from festivals, events, printing and the like, it has been more than ten years or seven, as you state today - it has been twenty years and more, as you know, everyone who follows this topic. Especially are those who intend to complete the Master’s degree and to cultivate this material from other perspectives.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u27	Mrs. Shirca, I am obliged to interrupt this moment. Please, if you do not threaten Members and Members who perform master's duties from your speech or presentation of the positions of the Liberal Democracy Club. The next time you're able to afford such a kick or malicious fact, I'm gonna kick you out of a pay phone.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u28	in our law stated that "we have not stated the social circumstances," I quote, "in the Slovenian space" and that "we have not submitted any research or expertise to justify this law." [[...]] A respected government! What does civil society tell us? What do you read to us today, and what do we usually read to ourselves? It is precisely that the editing of this material took so long and that the softening of this space took so long. But at this time, which has been subjected many times to the unquestionably clear pressure of a referendum, our law, with many burdens, as well as our entire space, which has been burdened with many things, has softened, analysed, debated openly, and was also based on the legal arrangements of the same-sex-oriented. What professional backgrounds and cabinet studies are expected to be submitted with everything the government requires, which has provided life over the decades. Literature cannot simply be limited to the rapporteur of the National Assembly and to the Official Journal or anything else, not to tell the family. Open society, social researchers and other development drivers, as well as an open view of the world of a series of so-called social circumstances that you miss or do not recognize in the explanation of the law. It is appropriate to read the resolution by which NGOs on both committees expressed their support for this law for the last time. It is important to examine all the recommendations of the European Union and the resolutions adopted, to check the degree of consensus reached by the countries that are considered solid advocates of the family in the European Union, but nevertheless extend the rights to those who wish to live differently from the prevailing tradition because of such and other personal circumstances. The European Member, mentioned earlier, at a visit to Slovenia, was surprised to learn that our top political representatives believe that homosexuality is a disease that should be regulated by the Ministry of Health. Let us also say, in the Group of Members, we are pleased with the comments proposed by the Legal and Legislative Service. The proposals are a welcome nomotechnic warning, a lot of editorial issues would be rectified with them, and it would certainly be even better by taking their advice into account the law than it is. For we know, and for the last time, that the law was the fruit of many turbulences of adaptations and corrections, so the final edition would benefit him. After all, in the legal sense, matter is not simple, and I hope that new writers of the law are aware of it, regardless of the fact that it was written in the short Christmas season. And that is what we regret not being able to face one and the other proposals today and at these moments to consider which one is better. In this way we are forced to subject the general consensus to the actual dictatorship of the coalition.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u29	Thank you for the position of Liberal Democracy. In doing so, I am informing you that I will not allow the central speaker in the plenary room of the National Assembly to make use of the pressure and indirect threats against Members or Members, so please never again, Mrs Shirca. We continue to present the position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats. She's a magician's colleague. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u30	Dear Members and Members. I take this opportunity to present to you the position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats on the proposal for a law on same-sex partnership as a suitable basis for regulating the situation of the same-sex people. The first initiatives to regulate the legal situation of same-sex partnerships date back to the early 1990s and the first draft law in 1999. It has been referred to as an inadequate basis for civil society movements, as it addressed only some issues of mutual property relations and further stigmatised the partnership and did not resolve the issue of social rights and obligations, which are fundamental in equating opportunities for the exercise of rights and the application of equality before the law. There seems to be a new government proposal going in this direction. In the parliamentary group, we believe that the basis for the realization of the rights of the same-sex Slovenian Constitution. In doing so, I should recall Article 15 which stipulates that human rights and fundamental freedoms shall be exercised directly and on the basis of the Constitution and also that human rights and fundamental freedoms shall be limited only to the rights of others and to the cases provided for in this Constitution. If equality before the law cannot be achieved directly through the application of constitutional provisions, it is, of course, necessary to ensure it through a specific law. Therefore, the UK Group of Social Democrats, together with the LDS, decided to put into the legislative process the bill under consideration after the current government gave up on it, although it also received the support of two current coalition partners at first reading. Let us not forget that the living community of two persons of the same sex is a real phenomenon, which will not endanger the marriage of a husband and a wife by removing the obstacles they face in everyday life. Civil society movements and individuals have for a long time warned that they are in an unequal position because they do not have the opportunity to exercise and exercise rights as individuals in the event of death, sickness, inheritance, citizenship, healthcare, the exercise of relief and social rights. Therefore, the main objective of the proposal is to regulate the legal situation of same-sex partnerships. The law does not eliminate the differences between heterosexual and same-sex relationships and does not equate both relationships in a symbolic or formal sense. The same-sex partnership guarantees only certain rights arising from the relationship between partners, rather than rights from family relations with children, also does not give the right to adopt a child. In our Group of Members, it is regrettable that the harmonisation of the text of the draft law in the previous term has been delayed so that only a debate has been held and the law has not been adopted. Many people, who have been monitoring the situation only occasionally, have no idea what issues are being addressed by the proposal for a law. Thoughts are most often raised from prejudice to same-sex and grow into fear of the spread of the same-sex group. The claim that other groups, in particular the family, will be deprived of their position is exaggerated as a result of the regulation of their situation. We therefore stress that the law does not endanger anyone and does not want to change the values that have been set, it allows only the right to choose a partner for a community in which an individual can realize and meet his need for belonging, confidentiality and assistance. We have long been aware of the problems of the legal void for a group of same-sex groups in the United List of Social Democrats. That is why at the party's 2001 congress in Cyprus, we decided that we would work to regulate their situation legally. Unfortunately, we haven't come to the end. Since I would like to point out at the end only that the exercise of personal choice is a fundamental right and that the establishment or conclusion of a same-sex partnership does not violate the freedom of anyone else, once again, respected colleagues and colleagues, Members and Members, I invite you not to support the decision of the parent working body and give this marriage proposal the opportunity to adopt it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u31	Thank you. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We will decide on the draft decision in accordance with the timing of the meeting today, in the framework of the half-hour vote, after the end of the 6th item of the agenda, or no later than the time set for the vote. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 3. PERIOD OF THE DAY - DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE SAFETY OF ROAD TRAVEL - REDUCED PROCEDURE. This reminds you that a total time of two hours and 27 minutes is foreseen for the debate. The proposal for a law was tabled by the RS Government for consideration by the assembly, and I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Prime Minister, Minister of the Interior Dragutin Mate, you have your time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u32	I'd like to brief a couple more. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u33	Excuse me, if you'd like to step forward for the central pay phone.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u34	I would like to further explain the proposal made by the Government regarding the law, amendments and amendments to the Road Safety Act. After these introductory complications, I apologize. Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! I would like to make some further explanations to the proposal itself, which went through the parent bodies. A few changes are essential. In particular, it is a matter of changing the use of the stickers used so far in the registration of motor vehicles and trailers in RS. In doing so, we have assessed at the Ministry and at the government that these stickers are unnecessary and cost citizens additionally and that we can effectively monitor and establish a system for registering motor vehicles and personal vehicles in Slovenia only with a traffic permit. Thus far, only vehicle ownership has been determined, and the amendments will achieve that these licences will at the same time determine when the vehicle is registered and will also prove all the other necessary elements to speak of the toll paid and the other duties necessary in this regard. If I give a brief analysis of the prices that are changing. Today's price of sticker is 1475 tolars. The whole procedure for issuing the sticker is worth 2579 tolars in the country at the moment. With the amendment of the legislation, the extension of a citizen's driving licence will cost a total of 1,360 tolars. In doing so, every citizen will save 1219 tolars for each registration, while, of course, it will be necessary to replace the existing marketing authorisations with new marketing authorisations when amending the law. It's not gonna happen right away. It's gonna happen gradually, slowly. Once the previous permit or registration has been made with the sticker and at the time of re-registering, each citizen will be given a new marketing authorisation. This permit will only cost 285 tolars, so the costs will still be significantly lower than they have been before. If you give another assessment. The registration of the new vehicle today costs 10,571 tolars in Slovenia, of course this registration will cost only 7,992 tolars and it will save citizens for 2579 tolars. In Slovenia about 95,000 vehicles are registered at the annual level, and we can see how much citizens can save. The second important amendment introduced by the law, which is due, of course, to the proposal to remove the stickers, is the registration plates. The registration plates, the form and content of the table have already been established by law, as confirmed in the previous reference to the National Assembly. In order to remove the label, certain articles referring to the use of the label on the table should also be amended in these articles. Thus there will be no stickers in the future on the table, except for the country code, numbers, letters and coat of arms of the Republic of Slovenia. With regard to the proposals put forward in Parliament's discussions on the parent bodies already identified by the Government, I would like to provide two additional explanations on concessions. The new law provides for the abolition of concessions in the field of training activities for motor vehicle drivers, which is said to be simple for schools. We believe that this proposal is very good, especially because the free market can properly regulate the price that will emerge on the market and will be the most appropriate one and it is not appropriate for the State to intervene. However, the second concession to be terminated is a concession to carry out technical checks on motor vehicles and trailers. We do not believe that concession is necessary; the law specifies the standards sufficiently; and [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] by which an organisation must operate and, of course, the State must verify that the organisation complies with these criteria. [[..]] If it fulfils them, it shall grant them all the consent with which it may carry out this activity while, at the same time, if there is no concession, the costs are substantially lower and simpler. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u35	Thank you, Minister. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as the parent working body. I ask the chairman of the committee, Mojco Kucler Dolinar, to present the report of the committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u36	Thank you very much. Nice greetings to all present. The Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on Public Administration and Justice, at its 4th regular meeting on 9 March, considered the draft law amending and supplementing the Road Safety Act submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly for consideration following a reduced procedure. In its supplementary explanation, the representative stressed that the basic objective of the bill is to simplify vehicle registration procedures and bring them closer to the citizens. In order to achieve this objective, they propose to abolish the traffic sticker, which will reduce the costs of citizens and the state. This change was also decided by the Government because the user's traffic sticker was not positively accepted because it caused unnecessary costs. In addition, the representative of the applicant stressed that the European Union directives in this area do not require a traffic sticker, but only a so-called vehicle registration document. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service pointed out that their service focused in a written opinion on the proposed decisions of Article 4 relating to the change in the choice of the operator to carry out the training activities of motor vehicle drivers. It noted that the question of the justification for the use of the concession institution in regulatory matters had already been raised at the principal level. However, it also cited arguments that would ensure that the conduct of activities under public service conditions could also be maintained. It also made a reasonable difference in Article 14 of the draft law. In the debate, the members and members of the committee made the most time-consuming changes to the draft law relating to the termination of the traffic sticker and to the solutions on how to select operators to carry out the training activities of drivers and the activities of technical inspections of motor vehicles. Some members expressed concerns and asked questions such as: whether the registration of a vehicle under new conditions will be really cheaper and easier, whether the applicant has also taken into account in the cost assessment the possibility of any compensation, the number of already ordered labels, the cost of new marketing authorisations and how the transitional period will be regulated. However, other members of the Committee felt that the stickers had been unwarranted, since they had encouraged registration procedures and represented an additional burden for citizens. They therefore commended the government for responding to the problems posed in practice by the very bureaucratic vehicle registration process and proposed the removal of the label. In the light of the legislative and legal comments made by the members of the Committee, we also raised the issue of the validity of the concession institute in the normative regulation of the training of applicants for motor vehicles drivers and technical inspections of vehicles. As it follows from the legal text that a concession may be obtained by any entity which fulfils the conditions laid down, the members of the committee considered the concession institution to be unfounded in this case, since the tendering would only complicate the selection procedures of the operators. Therefore, a member of the committee, Mr Kovacic, proposed to the Committee the adoption of an amendment to introduce a free economic initiative in this area. The representative of the proposer expressed his support for the proposal for an amendment to the Committee and also set out the reasons why he did not support the amendment of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group to Article 8. The Committee therefore did not adopt the amendment of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group to Article 8 and the amendments to Articles 4, 7, 14, 16 and 17 were adopted by the Committee. The Committee voted on all articles of the draft law together and adopted them and, by including the amendments adopted in the legislative proposal, set out the text of the amended draft law, which is an integral part of the report.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u37	Thank you for the report. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. I invite the representative of the Slovenian People's Party's Group to the floor. My friend Prevc.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! With regard to the adoption of today's proposal, it is said that the law on amendments and additions to the Road Safety Act has been largely heard by those who are actually this law, which included these unpleasant car stickers somewhere, that this is actually a populist matter. In the Slovenian People's Party, we feel that whether it is populist or not, the fact is that traffic stickers among people have never actually been positively accepted, as they have mainly caused unnecessary costs and unnecessary bureaucratic procedures, since we have also been given many times that the police have not been satisfied with the registration of vehicles only with the traffic sticker, but have also requested an additional traffic permit. Since the proposed amendments to the law bring about the implementation of the anti-biocratic programme, the simplification of the vehicle registration procedure and the reduction of the costs of citizens and not least of the countries, in order to reduce the number of procedures, we will certainly support the proposal of this law in the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u39	Thank you for the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. I invite Mr Zagorec to present the position of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u40	Thank you for your word. Your Honors are here! How bad was the Road Safety Act, which entered into force on 11.8.2004 and, in my opinion or in our belief, has been drafted by the then Interior Minister Bohinc somewhere in a state of despair, is also evidenced by the fact that we are meeting for the second time in this mandate with amendments and amendments to the Road Safety Act. The law before us is a law that is difficult to oppose, in fact, worse than the current law in force, there can be no proposed amendment. The law that we are considering today brings some welcome changes mainly in the field of vehicle registration, the so-called withdrawal of registration stickers, whose introduction has led to the irritation of the registration procedure, since we know that several thousand tolars have to be deducted. [[In noodles]] The "experts" who glued this sticker to you and the sticker itself wasn't for free. With the introduction of the label, waiting lines were extended before the registration windows and additional costs were incurred by the State. In the Slovenian National Party, we stressed that the government at the time wanted to decorate our motor vehicles. We were also wondering whether it would be possible in a month or two or three to introduce the next sticker that Minister Bohinc, then Minister Bohinc, would introduce, the one that would show use, I don't know, winter equipment might be possible in the vehicle. We may be missing another sticker, and the front windshield of the car would be completely ornamented. The question is whether this would not actually have happened if the elections had not taken place and the government had changed. The proposed amendment simplifies the procedures for registration of motor vehicles. On the other hand, it must also be said that it foresees the production of new registration plates without local markings, which is safe or securely linked to additional costs for the country, and probably for the users themselves, because I doubt that the price of the registration plate will remain the same. According to the Slovenian National Party, it would be more prudent to keep the license plates the way they are, including with the designation of local jurisdiction. Such a solution, in our opinion, would be cheaper, and even in the European Union, there are no uniform criteria for what the registration plate should look like. We know that Austria next door has several types of license plates, but on each one we can track the local code, where or where the motor vehicle was registered. The proposed solution to the pricing of school activities is also flawed in our belief because it prevents competition on the market, which we believe is unacceptable, and, as the legal and regulatory services have also pointed out, in breach of certain laws. As we have said in the Slovenian National Party in the previous amendment of the law, which we have dealt with two months ago, we regret that the Government does not make a comprehensive change to the road safety law, which would certainly be necessary, because such a law as it is now is catastrophically bad. However, as I have already stressed at the beginning of the presentation of the Slovenian National Party's position in the Road Safety Act, the real law that we are considering today cannot be any worse than the law that is now in force in the Republic of Slovenia, so in the Slovenian National Party we will support the amendment of the law, as proposed by the Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u41	Thank you. To be presented, however, I invite the DeSUS Group of Members, Mr Villa Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u42	Thank you very much. It is clear from what has been said so far that it is mainly two things, it is about lifting the stickers, and it is about how to regulate the powers of those who can train potential drivers. We have also considered this in the Desus Group, and in the process we have also had some concerns, particularly regarding the costs and the way in which the commission is delivered or priced for the service in the driver training process. Later, some of the solutions have improved the introductory proposal, including taking into account some of our concerns, so we can generally say that this is a law that has received our support, in particular a label that has been poorly adopted. Because the government or its representatives promise that this change will only change for the better and that no other rating that has been in force so far will remain, we agree that this law will be supported and that it will enter into force as soon as possible, of course, taking into account the assurance that the new costs that might have been incurred as a result of stocks or damages would not have been such that it would have been unreasonable to adopt this law; therefore, if the negative and financial consequences were exaggerated, then we would have withdrawn this support too. However, since this is about not getting worse in any way and improving this for the users of these services in individual parts, we support it. The concession was a problem, whether it was a concession or a different way of awarding, and when this was not yet proposed in the final version, we were just assessing that it was wrong to simply distribute it to everyone on the basis of a price determined by the state administration. The current amendment, I think, in the second paragraph of Article 158, deletes this, so this has become acceptable to us, and the DeSUS Group will support this proposal with amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u43	Thank you. I invite Mr Dimitri Kovacic to present the position of the SDS Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u44	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues, colleagues! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that the proposed law on amendments to the road safety law is a correction to some of the inappropriate solutions regulated by the law so far. The main objective of the proposed changes is to simplify the procedures for registration of motor vehicles and bring these procedures closer to the citizens so that their vehicles can register in as simple a way as possible and in any administrative area in Slovenia. Since the abolition of the traffic sticker is at least the most important change in the law that we are considering and adopting today, it is not too important to say a few words about it. If you remember, the traffic sticker was legally introduced as proof of ownership and technical suitability of the motor vehicle during the term of office of the previous government. This recent novelty has further complicated the registration process of motor vehicles, prolonged the time period and has also inspired the service only. The amendment has therefore been very receptive to the public. To date, no one has seriously and professionally explained and thus proved or at least substantiated the justification for the introduction of a traffic sticker. It is therefore right that the current government has decided to amend an inadequate legal provision which has brought no benefits, but only the dissatisfaction of the users and the operators themselves of the vehicle registration services. This dissatisfaction was not demonstrated solely by the increase in the price of services, but also by the unnecessary complexity of procedures. When assessing the usefulness of the proposed legislative changes and at the same time assessing the meaning of the previous legal solution, we quickly find that the introduction of a traffic sticker made only sense years ago in the interests of companies that became the contractor or supplier of these stickers. When we find out how companies got to the exclusive business, we can't get rid of the impression that the acquisition of the business was not clean, at least as far as one of these companies received the business, although under the conditions described it was not the most favourable. And then the company had already delivered a huge amount of traffic stickers the fourth day after the State had concluded a contract with it. This makes it very clear that, before he got the deal, he knew that he would be chosen and, therefore, had already approached the implementation of this contract before the relevant contract was concluded, regardless of the fact that there was no contract or business at all at that time. I am speaking, of course, of Mirage, whose owner, from then on, of a small, insignificant firm after obtaining the job I am talking about, has so recovered that he built a palace on the elite Adriatic Riviera. I also have some pictures about this beauty that we've obviously paid for all those who used this sticker. And in this castle, as we have been able to detect from some media, a good entrepreneur often goes on business vacation and what with his heavily charged own plane or helicopter. Whether this wealth is due to suction on a state nursery or something else, it is very easy to determine by appropriate audit. At the time of the consideration of the proposed law on the Internal Policy Committee, some members of the Liberal Democracy and the United List objected to the proposed abolition of the traffic sticker, so that this could result in the payment of the compensation that the State will have to pay to companies producing and supplying stickers, since the State is to unilaterally terminate or cancel the contract with both companies and such unilateral waiver is not envisaged in the contract itself. Therefore, the damage suffered by a unilaterally cancelled contract and the loss of profits should be recovered from the State. Obviously, both parties are well aware of the terms of the contracts concluded and are aware of such dangers. However, this cannot be the reason why the solution so far, which is bad and harmful, would not change and fix it as soon as possible, irrespective of the possible claims of companies, the current manufacturers of traffic stickers. The fact is that it was a business that was harmful to the State and it will therefore be necessary to determine who is responsible or responsible for the conclusion of the injurious transaction by the State and the State itself or the competent national authority must file recovery procedures for the damage caused to the State by the injurious transaction. In this way, the State will also adequately compensate for the possible payment of contractual damage that should be paid to the parties due to early terminations. As a result of this, and also because in some other cases the solution itself is being rationalised with regard to the modification of school concessions and technical checks, the Slovenian Democratic Party's delegation will, of course, support this proposal for a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u45	The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Davorin Terčon. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u46	Dear Members and Members, honourable President! Mr. Secretary, hello! The idea of the introduction of stickers indicating the period of validity of the technical inspection of a vehicle was born at the Ministry of the Interior when drafting a proposal for a road safety law for the first treatment in the second half of 1994. At that time, the Ministry was headed by Minister Andrej Šter. The National Assembly considered the law in the legislative procedure in 1995-1998, when the law was also adopted. The provisions relating to the label have not changed in all three years of the legislative procedure. At the time of the adoption of the law, no political party stumbled upon the idea of the label. We first warned about the lack of stickers in the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club. In particular, we were critical of the Minister's regulation to determine the form, content and location of the sticker, the price of the sticker was too high, including the registration organisation's service, and we did not agree to charging the services for the installation and removal of the sticker, as well as the imminence of the use of the sticker, i.e. simply marking the technical integrity of the vehicles. At first we even advocated termination, and on the basis of warnings from the Chamber of Economics of Slovenia, the competent ministry with the support of our and all other parliamentary parties upgraded it so that the label now, in addition to the technical integrity of the vehicle, also shows paid toll and compulsory car insurance. As stated in the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club, we reject the suggestion that the introduction of stickers has taken place on the proposal of the Liberal Democracy to provide financial benefits for a narrowly interested group. In the Liberal Democracy, we have continued to insist on the introduction of a verifiable system comparable to, for example, Germany and some other European countries. Last July, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a law on road safety, by which we achieved simplification of the procedure, valuation of the cost of production, installation on boards, merger of the database of the Ministry of Interior and Insurance, in order to send stickers to owners without annual visits by the administrative authority or authorised registration organisations, of course, when the conditions, in particular the payment of toll and compulsory insurance, were met. We remind the government of the ease with which the vehicle registration system is being redesigned. The upgraded and up-to-date system has not even come to life, and the new government has already rushed to end it, even though all sub-legal acts have already been prepared to enforce it. Users will be so disabled that they can compare new solutions to not too sophisticated and unpopular previous solutions. We will abstain from voting in the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. The latter does not mean that we blindly insist on the already mentioned German model. I would be happy to support changes that would bring users good news, lower costs, fewer visits to administrative units and registration organisations. We would also support the Government's proposal if this proposal was supported by sufficient expert evaluations, in which the proposed solution is better and cheaper than an upgraded and not to the end of an existing system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u47	Thank you. Mr Miran Potrč will present the position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Group of Members of the United Nations Social Democrats has carefully examined the Government's proposals for amendments and additions to the Road Safety Act. If its findings are incontrovertible that the introduction of motor vehicle registration stickers would be unnecessary and more time-consuming and costly for citizens, then there can be no reason not to support the abolition of these unnecessary stickers. The Group of Members has taken away the justification given by the Prime Minister to the question of the Member State concerning the introduction of the stickers. If it were true that the introduction of stickers was accompanied by behaviours that could also have signs of a crime, then the Prime Minister would first be obliged to file a criminal complaint on this, not to speak to citizens through the House of State. This error was corrected by the Secretary of State on the home working body, who did not wish to go to any assessment or insinuation of the guilt of individuals and their potential material interests for the introduction of stickers. The United List of Social Democrats therefore takes note that the only reason why they should be eliminated would be the savings provided to citizens when they register motor vehicles. According to the Government, this savings amount to between 934 and 1,219 tolars per year plus the inconvenience and elimination of the loss of time caused by the removal and installation of the label. Again enough reasons to support, although not enough reasons to emphasise the importance of this law. However, because the issue of stickers has been on the table for seven years and several ministers from various government parties have participated in their introduction - Minister Bohinc has already taken this decision - their argument for the introduction of stickers was as vehement as it is now to abolish them, we only wanted to get some clarifications that would remove our last doubts about the well-intention and correctness of this proposal. Some answers to our question were satisfactory, but we did not get answers to some questions. Representatives of the government acknowledged that they were not even aware of the approximate assessment of the new label which would have to be applied after the adoption of the law and would have been attached to the traffic table. Unquestionably, it would be simpler and smaller. If the label were only half the price of the current one, the entire savings for the citizens would be off, we don't know that. Government representatives did not wish to comment on the possibilities and levels of any compensation claims of the current label manufacturers. However, they admitted that, of course, the possibility of compensation existed. This is also evident from interviews with the directors of the affected companies in the Evening, the size of the new State's obligation to save citizens - therefore, it is not known. Government representatives did not answer the question exactly how many stickers had already been delivered and how many stickers were still in stock with manufacturers, but later made it clear that the suspension of transitional investment stickers might solve this problem, but they transferred the responsibility to the National Assembly. Finally, the applicants did not say how they would be able to conduct the administrative procedure in the issue and extension of the marketing authorisation of workers in vehicle sellers and how much it would cost. If this is not ensured, registration of motor vehicles will not continue to be possible for them, which would be one of the new laws. At the time of savings of 934 tolars, all buyers of new motor vehicles will be deprived of much time for this gain. Thus, a number of serious questions remain, to which the applicant has so far failed to give a clear answer. Until this answer is given, there are reasonable concerns as to whether the proposed content of the law is truly comprehensive or merely seemingly friendly to citizens. We will therefore request a clear report on these issues from the Government after the law has been enforced, which we have no doubt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u49	Thank you. We are moving on to the presentation of the next parliamentary group, New Slovenia. I'd like to invite Ambassador Mojca Kucler Dolinar to the pay phone, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u50	Thank you very much and very much. Today we are talking about an item that would certainly be put at the top of our list of priorities, which means a lot to us in everyday life. On the one hand, a vehicle means a cost, on the other hand a necessity, and some also a means to earn income. As a result, any changes to legislation that appreciates and simplifies procedures in this regard are welcome. The New Slovenia Group supports the proposed amendments and additions to the Road Safety Act. We are convinced that the basic novelty, this is the removal of stickers on motor vehicles, is justified, because they were not only criticized by the owners of vehicles that caused us additional costs, waiting for the sticker on from - and on glue, but also by police officers who had to carry out two procedures in relation to the vehicle. First, the examination of the traffic licence relating to the ownership findings and then the short walk around the vehicle, the matter of the policeman’s decision was for or before the vehicle, and also the view of the sticker. Of course, the proposed changes are less than happy for those who have printed stickers, even those who have received work after a reduced procedure, allegedly past the invitation to tender. We believe that by removing the stickers we will by no means interfere with the basic function of the documents, if it was on the outside of the license plate. This may have meant immediately upon the introduction of the sticker, but later no, since the label remains after the registration has expired and only the review is the one that determined whether the registration is valid or not. Therefore, this function in the future will also be able to carry out a marketing authorisation which will demonstrate, in addition to the ownership data, the technical integrity of the vehicle, proof of the payment of the toll and proof of the insurance paid. The proposed amendment also provides for the extension of the marketing authorisation for the period of validity of the technical examination, toll and insurance. And if an individual wants to, for a new vehicle for the first three years when no technical inspection is necessary, he will be able to pay the insurance for all three years. It is true, however, that there are few that, according to the current method of payment of insurance, decide on this option and will certainly need to be regulated in the future also in the field of insurance, so that this option will in practice become real and will therefore reduce waiting types and time before windows. This will certainly be facilitated by computer compatibility between the operators involved in the registration process and also allows for electronic registration and therefore will be given a marketing authorisation by mail. This would avoid the situation that I experienced in one of Ljubljana's car houses, which deals with registration when I had to travel from window to window: first registration of technical integrity, then payment of toll and third window insurance payments. After discussion at the home work body and further clarifications by the government representatives at the meeting, we also support the solution to abolish the envisaged award of concessions in respect of schools and technical checks, since the rules specify the conditions for carrying out such activities and do not provide for the establishment of additional criteria. The Ministry explained that, due to the provisions of the existing law, they are faced with a senseless situation where the tendering conditions themselves cannot be affected, since anyone who fulfils the legal conditions receives a work permit. However, our view is that we should not even think about introducing a system criterion, one who gives more, in order to be able to carry out such an activity. We are confident that the free initiative of economic operators will not have a negative impact on the quality of services if the legal conditions and the conditions are met. In Nova Slovenije we are also co-signed by the amendment, under which the school will no longer determine the country in future prices, as it is right to leave the prices to regulation on the market. This is also a step towards limiting entry and the impact of policy on the functioning of Slovenian companies and the conditions for establishing competition. Therefore, the New Slovenia Group will support both the bill proposal and the amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u51	This concludes with the presentation of the views of the groups of Members, we are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled, which I will lead on the basis of the review of the amendments of 21.3.2005. You have also received a harmonisation amendment from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, so I am putting Article 4 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SLS in the debate. Who wants a word about the amendment? My friend Tanko. Please, just for a second, we'll make a list first. For now, we have three debaters, the first one has the word of his colleague Tanka, but please stick to the content of the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u52	Thank you so much for saying that. I welcome everything, and I also welcome the Minister. First of all, I must say that this law is a school case for most of the governments of the past, because it shows us in a very visual way how they acted bureaucraticly. In fact, two documents have been made out of one of the usual ones for the European Union, and two of them have been auctioned or doubled the price of the procedure, some additional administrative work has been put in place quickly, and by the way, the authorities have added to the confirmation of the tariffs of certain services, such as in this case the prices of school hours. This law or regulation is not the first one to have been undertaken by the government in the first hundred days, which has already lifted certain restrictions, and it has used the possibilities of its information network in particular, for example, so it has already streamlined the process of issuing a ID card, and it is also an important novelty, for example, in the case of verifications, because they are significantly cheaper in a state authority than in notaries. The new government has therefore decided to rationalise and evaluate both procedures and services without big words and pump, and the approach is quite different than it used to be. In the past, much has been said about the elimination of anti-birocratic barriers, with a large media action or pump, the whole superministery in this area, which in fact had the primary task of simplifying administrative or bureaucratic procedures. However, legislation has somehow complicated and irritated the services of citizens and businesses, hindered and choked even private people, even if they did not perform public services, as we have in this law when the government set even the price of services or tariffs. So these previous governments acted the exact opposite of the forecast, and the Ministry was more or less just a cover for one case of negligence. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u53	My colleague Tanko, I apologize, I sincerely ask that we stick to the content of the amendment which is before us and whose proposers are three groups of Members. Please, if we stick to the content of the proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u54	Sometimes you have to explain things a little bit wider, but you can't just do it with one sentence.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u55	Comrade Tanko, this is intended to present the position of the Group of Members. Your Group has already presented its position, so once again I ask that you stick to the content of the amendment, as we have instructed by the Rules of Procedure and the rules of conduct of the National Assembly. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u56	I'm asking you to extend your time, because in this case, you spoke. Well, what does this amendment mean, or this change, which is so irritating to the opposition? This means nothing more than removing bureaucratic barriers to reducing the number of documents in order to simplify the procedure. This amendment leaves the imposition of tariffs, i.e. business decisions, to those service providers that actually provide this service, which are auto-schools in this case. Services are valued and unnecessary costs are eliminated, both for citizens and for the country, and legal bases are finally abolished, allowing for the charging of unnecessary costs for unnecessary services, from which the money was obtained primarily from selected private accounts. And if I sum it up briefly, if from every registration, thousands were taken from every registered vehicle, then it would bring a lot in the end. And after all, that also means the possibility of punishing someone who doesn't have this sticker. I would also like to say that this document, the label, was more important in a given case than the technical review, because the new vehicles were exempt for three years, but they had to have a sticker in any case. Thus, it is right to rationalise these matters and also to allow citizens to avoid being charged unnecessary costs by the State, either in the case of checks or in the case of work that is even more expensive, that is in the case of penalties. I think it is right for the government to pursue other similar matters in these areas, because citizens all earn too much money to take it out of their pockets in such a reckless manner for unnecessary, artificial and artificial bureaucratic procedures. And I hope that we will get some similar legislation on the agenda in a short time. In any case, I support both the solution in the law and the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u57	I would ask the remaining two notified discussers to stick to the contents of the amendment proposal, which states that the second paragraph of Article 158 of the Act is deleted. I will read the second paragraph in order to avoid any inconvenience with the extension of the sitting, if you are not a debater - so once again I ask you to stick to the contents of the amendment. The second paragraph reads: "Despite the provisions of the preceding paragraph, public educational establishments may carry out the training activities of candidates if they fulfil the conditions laid down in this law and other rules on the basis of the decision to register in a school register." That's the content we're changing. Please, we are not talking about all living and dead, which is related to this law and not to the amendment. Mr Kovacic has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u58	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues, colleagues! The proposed amendment to Article 4 tabled by the New Slovenia Group of Members, the People's Party and the Slovenian Democratic Party is a consequence of the fact that the proposed law no longer provides for the operation of the school as a public service. But now, after this new activity, anyone who fulfils the prescribed conditions for this activity can do so. The proposed law introduces liberalisation in the granting of powers to carry out the activities of the school and also to carry out technical checks, by conferring the power to carry out these activities on all tenderers who fulfil the conditions laid down, as I have said. Therefore, it is also logical that such an activity does not require the State to prescribe prices or tariffs for that activity, but that the price on the basis of supply and demand should be freely established on the market. I believe that this change will allow for greater competitiveness among individual stakeholders of this school activity and that opening up the market in this area so far will certainly be welcome to a fairly administratively regulated area. With this proposed amendment, we may wonder how this change will be accepted by the users of these services, i.e. all potential drivers of motor vehicles preparing to obtain a driving licence. I believe that these potential drivers want, above all, quality education, which will enable them as quickly as possible and as qualitatively as possible to acquire both theoretical and practical knowledge so that they will then be able to pass the driving test successfully on this basis and obtain a driving licence on this basis. I think that the quality and speedy acquisition of knowledge is the most important motive for potential drivers to decide on the kind of school that will meet their expectations to the greatest extent possible. If they consider that there are several schools on the market that can provide such demands and expectations for people, then other criteria such as the price of services, distance to the place of residence and so on will also affect the choice decision. Therefore, individual schools will have to work hard and constantly to provide quality training to drivers, to have as much technical and sufficiently capacity as possible, and not least to be cost-effective for all users. In this way, those who follow such a way of working will also gain the reputation of the public, thereby ensuring a broad market niche that will ensure their success and, of course, some will not succeed in this competitive fight and will have to abandon their activities in order to do so. It is therefore a competition in which the good are successful, but the bad are not. This is for the consumer who wants quality services, of course, the most important. In the parliamentary group, as I said before, we will also support this proposed amendment, as this amendment, which is proposed, contributes to greater competitiveness between potential operators of activities, and the school, of course, will also receive greater competitiveness from the technical checks services or from those involved in this activity. Greater competitiveness, as said, usually also leads to lower prices and higher quality of services. The proposed amendment guarantees exactly what I was talking about, so I think it is right to adopt it, as well as the proposed law in its entirety, whose main purpose is, as I said in the first place, to remove the traffic sticker, where there is great stupidity and this label was introduced mainly because of the interest of individuals who have acquired quite a lot of wealth in this way - not to say that it is unearned, but that the culprits are sitting in those structures that decided on this label at the time. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] And that is why, though, this story must be completed as soon as possible, and this law must be passed. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u59	Thank you. If I may afford it, we can end this discussion even more quickly if you refuse to discuss it. It's my friend Kokalj's turn.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u60	Dear Mr. Vice President! My debate is designed as I was taught in school: introduction, core and conclusion, and in the core I will talk about the amendment, and in the introduction I must be general, but I will be very brief. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Road Safety Act is one of the most important laws for the everyday life of every citizen. The road, the car, security, coherence and accessibility to everyone at the same time are key concepts that mark the content of the law. The fact that marriage is very important also shows the fact that it often changes and complements. The purpose must always be to improve and live the law and, of course, to respect only this. The proposed amendment is from the initial proposal to the content that we have before us, which has substantially changed, indicating the sensitivity of the content covered by the law. The changes contained in the last amendments are - I hope so, and I also understand - aimed at improving the law in the direction of greater living, and in particular, I hope, easier access to the basic needs of the means of transport to date. This last amendment will make it easier, in particular, I hope, to afford cheaper access to a driver's license. Today, the means of transport is practically as urgent as the water system. Without this, we can no longer imagine life in the current society, so it is necessary to continue the process, including through other legislation, so that accessibility to the basic means of transport becomes in itself conditional. It is necessary to ensure that the driving test, which is actually referred to indirectly by this amendment, is automatically accessible at the age of 18. Today it is not, especially in families with a poor social status. In this area, we have good prospects in some other countries, including neighbouring countries. Therefore, the proposed amendments and also this amendment will be followed, I hope, by others, on this and other laws that will prevent the strengthening of monopolies and increase the widest and most favourable opportunities for access to basic living goods, including accessibility to the safe use of means of transport for every citizen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u61	Thank you. We continue the debate. Mr Sok is the next and the last to be reported.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u62	Thank you for your word. Mr President, fellow Members and Members of Parliament! In New Slovenia we will support this amendment. In fact, this amendment means a major intervention in the organisation of schools in the Republic of Slovenia. I think the outcome of this amendment will only be visible in the future. It is a matter of freeing up the market in this area. First, the price and everything within this framework will depend on supply and demand. At this point, I kind of wish that those in the area of Slovenia today are not going to see this as an opportunity to raise prices. In fact, if they understand this in such a way, then I am sure that, when competition is released, those who try to earn in fact on a very short notice will survive in this area of competition those who will provide these services in a competitive and competitive manner. At this point, some from the country understand the regulated price so that it must be the upper ceiling and in practice they do not think that the price could be lower. Most bidders, wherever such regulation is concerned, think in this way. So this is the price that the state has set. In fact, if we were to have a slightly different and more business-oriented mentality, we should think completely differently, and I think that today, with this change in deregulation, we are actually landing or legalising this business mentality in the field of the functioning of Slovenian schools. I hope that the content of this law will remain very well accepted in our public, because what was introduced by this label - to conclude and that the President will not warn me that I am moving away from the content of the amendment - what was done with this label was essentially unnecessary. Unnecessary loading of car owners' wallets, because this sticker really only served to make two holes and show when the car was registered, but you still had to show the police a traffic permit at every opportunity. The price for this sticker was 2,579 tolars; we can calculate, with a bunch of cars, what kind of assets were involved here. I therefore welcome this intention of the government and the decision to remove this nonsense immediately at the beginning of the mandate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u63	Thank you. Comrade Jerovšek, take your time.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u64	Thank you very much. I am also joining the speakers in supporting the proposal to delete the second paragraph of Article 158, which provides for an ethical standardisation of the prices for training at schools. In fact, I hope that market legitimacy will work on the market, that competition between schools will be solid and that this will mean a rational price or easy access to driving licences. Otherwise, I am late in this debate because I have not been paying attention, but in the meantime, some representatives of small schools have warned me that the previous government has introduced certain provisions that are extremely long-lasting in this area. I think it's a mistake, and I don't understand why it hasn't gone away by now. That is why I think that this will have to be resolved in a short time. In fact, all that the former government has done in this regard has been in the direction of filling the pockets of some dedicated persons in this country who have gained a great deal of wealth. For this reason, I am surprised that Members of the opposition parties today should not have been able to shield themselves from what their government representatives have been doing. True, some also sit in parliamentary benches [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u65	Comrade Jerovšek, please keep this amazement to yourself and continue with the content of the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u66	So this article is also one of those articles that normalize the situation after the abnormal situation that occurred after the previous government passed such a law that was actually against the users of these services and also against all drivers of cars, against all those who use cars, which today is actually something mandatory, necessary. And I hope that this law amending the law and also deleting this article will produce positive results. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u67	Thank you. I believe you've made our day. I would also like to invite my colleague Štebet to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u68	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members and Members! The addition to the proposal for amendments to the law is a contribution to the liberalisation and demonopolisation of the service market, as well as to the reduction of red tape. There will be a need to monitor the fulfilment and implementation of the conditions which will have to be met by the school. If there is any cartel agreement on the prices of services, it shall, however, reach out to the relevant regulator and there shall be continuous monitoring and sanctioning of such infringements. This is said to be in the same direction as the whole area of education will need to be adjusted. It is a personal and private initiative, it is a private capital that will allow adequate, hopefully, competitive services and also prices to come into the education services market. But I have to look at the whole change in the law, because this has not been said today. In fact, this anti-biocratic intervention into something that is not necessary and is in all the computers of the state administration or the police, in fact, recognition, is the highest recognition that we are in the information society and that something that is in the computers of every official in the administrative units, or in the operators of the technical checks, or that these data are in the reach of the police, is said to be in mobile form that it is all today the first intervention of this government, that in fact very obvious and practical way proves that in Slovenia we are the first in the world to eliminate unnecessary data in a physical form on the windscreen of a car, because all these data are available to the necessary officials at any time, but also to the citizens if we open it. And I am happy and I hope that this will also trigger a wave of changes in such developed countries as the United States of America, Germany and other countries, where people for decades would say that the practice of having stickers either on a license plate or on a windshield think that all the computers in the world today are still needed. This was a really big discourse and a non-recognition that we are in an information society and that we have invested so much in information equipment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u69	Thank you. My word is Mr. Davorin Terchón. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u70	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, I would have imagined my performance somehow like my colleague Kokalj, and in the central part, of course, I would focus on the proposed amendment. But I would like to say something, like all the speakers, about the law as a whole, because it was possible for them. Well, I have to say, I don't object to the amendment, and I think it makes sense. In any event, the liberalisation of the granting of concessions to schools is welcome mainly from the point of view of the costs that future users will have, since the market, supply and demand will certainly, in my view, do their part and I suppose that the price of this service for the user will also be reduced to the price fixed by the offer and demand. Of course, this raises the question of how to ensure quality work for future organisations when they compete, but I am sure that in the Ministry, with the necessary rules and criteria, this should be determined and that quality will not suffer and that we will continue to witness in the future that we will have these educational institutions that will need to train drivers or road users. That is how I think this solution in these proposed changes is smart. There's something else I'd like to say about marriage in general, just like all my predecessors. I think that what the government is proposing is certainly more intelligent than the visa stickers, as they were in their original form. I was the one who was very skeptical of the label system. I also think that even the visa of the existing system would consider and probably this is a smarter solution. However, I am not sure if this is the right solution to the visa of a solution that could be achieved with the complete operationalised system of stickers. Let me point out that the compatibility of the information system between the Ministry of Interior for the payment of tolls and insurance companies has not yet been established, so that it is not possible for the user to get stickers home, smaller stickers for the plates, cheaper stickers. However, this system, which is proposed, will, of course, have to visit every year, even though it has registration for a new vehicle only after three years and seven years, the registration organisation or the administrative authority in order to extend the registration or marketing authorisation there. That's why I'm not sure you chose the right direction. I'm not going to object to how I didn't support the sticker system, but I think it would suggest that we think about operating on these laws that are already there. What you are running hygiene and memories, my gentlemen and ladies, and so on. 2.4.1998, statement of vote of the National Assembly, 11.52 and 10 seconds, vote on the law: 54 present, 46 in favour, none opposed. Read your names and you'll see where you've been and what you've been doing. I'm going to say about hygiene that the National Party wasn't there and that I wasn't voting for what I'm talking about all the time. But so much for seduction and the guilt of any government for the future. As far as I'm concerned, [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Let me finish. [[...]] As for the insinuation of the benefits of certain private organisations, I would also like to see you discover these and punish them if that was the case. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] What do you do? [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u71	I ask the House of Honor not to disturb the speaker while he speaks! Mr. Tarchoon, continue, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u72	Since Mirage has been mentioned several times, I don't want to insinuate anything, if anything was wrong, you have all my support, but it bothers me to say so - I don't hope to point my finger at anyone. As far as I know, however, I read in the newspaper that the former and current minister, on this same plane of the same company, drove to the Republican Assembly and was still driving cheerfully. If you say so with your finger, clean up before your doorstep. The amendment seems fine. I will abstain from marriage for these reasons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u73	Thank you for your discussion. Comrade Sok, I didn't see you mentioned. Who do you think the Republic of Slovenia is, who? Look. I can give you my word within your available time if you want, so please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u74	I would like to explain that in New Slovenia, Comrade Terčon could not list anyone who voted in favour of this law because we did not vote. However, we did not vote in favour of the Road Traffic Safety Act because we have tabled a number of amendments mainly to the amount of penalties that are legalized by this Act and, of course, I also remember the debate that was held in this national assembly, and as far as our parliamentary group is concerned, we voted against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u75	He once again spoke to his colleague Terchon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u76	Comrade Sok, now I don't know if you were in Parliament at the time, I was talking about the 1998 law. But they must have been SDS, and they must have been in Parliament from SLS. But if you've mixed the date with the 2004 law, then let's get this fixed a little bit. I was certainly talking about some of the opposition and, above all, the position it had at the time and how it voted. But the label system was introduced in 1998, and it came to life in 2001 with all the criticisms, and the law was corrected when you were in Parliament, 2004, which is true.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u77	Comrade Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u78	Thank you very much. I am also protesting in this way the involvement of us who have not voted in favour of this law. It is logical that we may not have objected to the vote because the law has already been passed, since we often do so by Members because you cannot or by that rule, if rape is inevitable, then proceed in that way. Look, it's not true! The typical financial fraud that filled some’s pockets turned out to be later! And in your species, you know very well what the background was, with what assumptions this sticker went, who would be privileged, what those privileged then returned to your client, and some how these funds were poured into your pocket, and not least now they're even threatening to sue the country if the contract was broken and I don't know what it was. I think it is necessary to introduce an investigative committee on this subject, which is my opinion, but not because of those directly involved, but because of the fact that they have filled their pockets, but that they will know which officials of this Robbery Government have stood for it and have allowed such a robbery of consumers to take place on a permanent basis. It is an extremely conscious project on how to rob almost every adult for some money every year systematically. And keep yourself from it, and at least those who didn't have any of it, well, the client already had, in any case, the client had some of it, but those who had nothing in person. I don't see this ability here, this ability to get out of it, I don't see and I don't have to read these results of the vote, we see how this national assembly works. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u79	Comrade Jerovšek, your protest will be shown in the tape, and we will continue the meeting. My colleague Šteba has also been reported.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u80	I wanted to respond to [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u81	Allow me, please, Comrade Jerovšek, Comrade Anderlich! Allow me to see you, Mr. Stab.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u82	Free of charge with Miragevin's plane. [[...]] If that was true, he'd probably prove it. However, I would like to respond to its implementation so that, if the stickers were sent by mail and then related to insurance and toll services, the matter would still be justified. I don't agree with that.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u83	I dare you for your performance. This concludes the debate. We will decide on the amendment in accordance with the timing of the meeting today, half an hour after the end of the 6th item of the agenda or at the latest at the time set for the vote. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to five. Agenda item - Defence proposal for a resolution on the National Food Policy Programme 2005-2010 The expected time of discussion is 2 hours and 15 minutes. The motion for a resolution was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give my word to any government representative. Since they're not here, we're gonna skip this part. Therefore, for a report or presentation, I ask the Chairman of the Health Committee, Mr Ljubo Germić, as the working body, to submit a report. Since we don't have any luck here, I'm asking the National Assembly, I'm sorry. [[...]] Comrade Germich, will you file a report?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u84	Excuse me! Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! At its 1st serious meeting, on 2.3.2005, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on Health addressed a motion for a resolution on the national food policy programme 2005-2010 submitted by the RS Government to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for its consideration and adoption. In addition to the text of the motion for a resolution, the members of the Committee also received the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia, the position of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the opinion of the State Council, the professional council of the RS on sports, the comments of the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce, the opinion of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food, the opinion of the Commission of the State Council on Agriculture, Forestry and Food, and the letter of the Economic and Interested Association of Charity of Slovenia. The introductory explanation of the motion for a resolution was made by the applicant on behalf of the d.d. Director of the Directorate of Public Health at the Ministry of Health. It stressed the importance of nutrition for health and that the key risk factors associated with modern diseases are food-related. In addition, she stressed the fact that in Slovenia only half of the population had normal blood pressure, only a third of the population had normal cholesterol and normal body weight and are physically active. From 15 to 18% of the population in Slovenia has a markedly increased body weight. The fact that 50 % of the Slovenian population is being fed unhealthyly has been highlighted, leaving the Prekmurje area. That an important factor is the socio-economic situation of individuals and families, age and sex and that children and adolescents are particularly at risk. The following are the medium-term objectives of the food policy, in particular to increase people's consumption of vegetables and fruit and to reduce the consumption of common and saturated fats and alcohol. In this way, the resolution sets food objectives and identifies key strategies to ensure that these objectives are achieved when properly implemented. The following opinions and views were given on the motion for a resolution: a legislative and legal service which, in its opinion, pointed out that the text of the motion for a resolution did not contain an introductory part or explanation to present the purpose of preparing such a programme. Furthermore, in the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, the applicant should consider whether the indicator is necessarily to be considered as an integral part of the act. In view of the fact that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Act and the State Administration Act have been renamed by some ministries, the text in the motion for a resolution does not follow those laws. The legislative and legal service will also regulate the text by nomotechnical means in the final edition. The following opinion was given by the representative of the State Council, the representative of the professional council of the Republic of Slovenia for sport, the representative of the agri-land chamber and the representative of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. After a general presentation, the members of the Committee moved to a decision on individual chapters of the motion for a resolution. Within the time limit, amendments to the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food were tabled as an interested working body, a group of Members and a member of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food. The members of the Committee supported a number of amendments to the Group of Members, but did not support the amendment of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food by MEPs to Chapter 3.1. As a group of Members withdrew a number of amendments to Chapter 2 at the meeting of the Committee, members of the Committee also withdrew the amendment to the entire text of the resolution, the amendment to the index, the amendment to the amendment number 3 of the group of Members to Chapter 5.2.3.4.5.2, the amendment to Chapter 6, the amendment to the new wording of Chapters 8 and 9, the amendment to the amendment to Chapter 1, to Chapter 9 - explanation of the terms and at the end of the amendment to the entire text of the resolution. Thus, a motion for a resolution on the national programme of food policy for the period 2005-2010 was prepared on the basis of Rule 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure in the light of the amendments adopted at the meeting of the Committee. At the conclusion of the hearing, the members of the Committee adopted the following decision: "The Health Committee shall propose to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia that a supplementary motion for a resolution on the national food policy programme for the period 2005-2010 be considered and adopted." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u85	Thank you, Comrade Germich. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. We will hear the first position from the SNS Group of Members. Mr. Victory Jelinčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. That's a nice hello to you all. The motion for a resolution on the national food policy programme 2005-2010 is good, it is not the best, there is much to be done, but it is good in spite of everything, but it is, above all, better than what the previous Ministry of Health has prepared. However, I think there is still a lot to be added or added to this [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u87	Comrade Shirtz, please, if you don't interrupt the speaker and you're so decorated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u88	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I didn't even hear what Mrs. Shirca was saying because I think it's irrelevant.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u89	Sometimes it's necessary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u90	I think we should turn around and do a little processing of the end of environmental pollution. As a result, pollution of the environment is the one that destroys healthy nutrition by pesticides and insecticides, artificial fertilisers and the like and by other chemical agents. Take only the example of Koper Kemiplast, where there are significantly more cancers in the region than in Slovenia in general, and yet so far nothing has been done in this area. Companies acquire their experts who then give them such and different excuses and challenge the measurements made by the Ministry of the Environment. Of course, they are driven by the desire to make as much money as possible, and it is also the one that has actually led to the use of all these chemicals in food production. As a result, industry is also the one that destroys groundwater, which is back to healthy nutrition. The soil level is plummeting, and in the short run, not only will we have worse food, but we will not have water. Then, in Slovenia, there's a variety of shops, I'd say, fast food. The McDonalds are aggressive with their advertising messages, and we know that if you want to destroy your stomach and if you want to undermine the natural balance in your body, it is best that you go to such fast food establishments, eat what you eat, and then soon become like Americans who are endlessly obese and who some have to not because they can't walk, but because they can carry their weight even the wheelchairs, otherwise they can't move. It is certainly necessary to pay great attention and also to work on co-natural farming. We must not forget that we too are part of nature and that this nature must also be nurtured, not just exploited. In addition, the use of artificial dyes and andiths should be taken into account. The juices we drink every day are increasingly full of chemicals and there are fewer and fewer natural substances in them, it is evident that many of us, when we drink some juice, have stomach pain or heartburn, but I will not say it because I usually drink a glass of good wine like a glass of bad juice, but still. After all, when I talk about wine, even stupid laws in the Republic of Slovenia contribute to poorer nutrition and poorer food. The law of Kebra, which is actually the law of prohibition, has already contributed to the fact that in a wine-growing country such as Slovenia, we must not drink good Slovenian wines, but we can drink bad imported wines, from where everything is from, from the European Union as well as from Macedonia. At the same time, it is also important to know that we should not simply sit on American standards that say that elevated cholesterol is just so harmful to the body. Cholesterol is not only cholesterol, but is more different types of cholesterol and the increased content is not a risk factor in itself, as this risk factor should be taken into account in accordance with other components of health, etc. You can also talk about high blood pressure. And one more thing. Chronic non-communicable diseases, which some hang at the expense of food, are largely due to stress. Again, stress is linked to poor economic performance, poor economic governance, which I hope will improve in the new mandate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u91	Thank you, Comrade Jelinčič, for the substantive debate. We continue with the presentation of DeSUS's position, colleague Ivan Yelen.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u92	Thank you for your word. Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, Members and Members of Parliament! I take the position of the DeSUS Group on the motion for a resolution on the national food policy programme in 2005 until 2010. In the DeSUS Group, we agree with the RS Government's proposal for a resolution on the National Food Policy Programme 2005 by 2010, and we will therefore support it. We agree with the proposalers' conclusion that this proposal, which is intended to enable a healthy and quality development of life in society as a whole, is a high level of protection for the health of the population. We know that 2/3 diseases are related to food, half the population in Slovenia does not eat breakfast at all, poor and irregular, mainly poor and less educated, and more men than women. We point out that the Slovenian population is increasingly experiencing chronic non-communicable diseases such as heart disease and blood vessels, diabetes, especially in the field of Maribor, Celje and Ljubljana, some cancers, some chronic key diseases, obesity, osteoporosis and other diseases of the musculoskeletal system. We know that more than 40% of the key diseases depend on eating. In doing so, experts warn us about the cost of about 115 billion tolls to cover the disease of circulation and diabetes. In the parliamentary group, we believe that food recommendations should be adopted on healthy nutrition, which should be simple, clear and understandable. Within the framework of an active ageing policy, attention should be paid to movement and sports activities. We agree with the proposalers' recommendation on the emphasis on healthy nutrition: healthy and safe food, low fat products, plenty of fruit and vegetables, calcium, three to five meals a day, affordable access for all and adequate information and information for all. We agree with the proposalers' finding that the key problems of the adult population regarding eating irregular and inadequate time intervals between meals, the use of oversaturated fats, salt, meat products, insufficient calcium, vitamins, in particular vitamin C, folic acid. It seems important to us in the resolution that there will be a need to improve standards for food control in nursing homes and the use of healthy foods. Indeed, it is clear from the proposal that sufficient attention has not been given so far. The conclusion that half of the Slovenian population is unhealthyly fed and that there are large regional differences in the mode of unhealthy nutrition, which ultimately affects the differences in mortality, is worth considering. We therefore believe that it is high time for the whole food chain to be formed, from eating habits, standards, guidelines, style to affordable prices for healthy nutrition. In the parliamentary group, we believe that the country should financially support such a national project, which is highlighted by the resolution on our current way of life, subsidies for recorded milk in nursing homes, promotion of fruit, vegetables, drinking water, untreated drinks and sports activities. On the basis of this, we will also support the proposal for a resolution on the national food policy programme 2005-2010 in the parliamentary group, as we have already stressed.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Following is a presentation of the position of the SDS Group of Members. Mr. Franz Jazbec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and respectable colleagues! The resolution mentions three pillars of food policy as the most important. With regard to food safety, food experts assure us that Slovenian food is relatively safe, and even in the resolution itself it is determined that the rules on safe food are already quite regulated, including on the basis of European legislation. The basis for the regulation of the second pillar of the resolution is, therefore, so to speak, prepared. It is a pillar of balanced and protective nutrition. From the point of view that non-education is the greatest enemy to health, consumers should be strongly aware of the importance of a balanced diet for health, the right choice of food, the way in which meals are prepared and the food rhythm itself. Only the informed consumer will have the opportunity to eat healthy, so he will remain healthier and, as such, for the country and its health treasury. Food standards, recommendations, are the best way for people to easily and understandingly tell them what a healthy diet is. The third pillar is a local sustainable supply that will offer the consumer a greater choice of healthy food. Public institutions, schools, kindergartens, hospitals will be provided by a local producer or processor of local industry and farmers, thereby enabling the consumer to access fresh food while promoting rural and agricultural development. Given the alarming data arising from the mass of research contained in the motion for a resolution on the national food policy programme 2005-2010, we believe that such a document is necessary as soon as possible. Slovenia obviously needs such a food policy to avoid negative health trends resulting from the unhealthy lifestyle of the population. However, success can only be achieved through the planning and implementation of effective measures that are mutually agreed and adopted on the basis of opinions and recommendations from experts and NGOs covering this area. The present resolution well defines strategies, key objectives and inter-ministerial activities aimed primarily at raising public awareness of healthy food and its positive impact on health protection. The objectives pursued by the resolution will be difficult to achieve in practice, as there are mainly economic conditions in society. Competent institutions will have to educate people about healthy nutrition. The Slovenian Democratic Party's Group supports the immediate adoption of a resolution on the national food policy programme, because we believe that concrete measures should be taken as soon as possible in this area. We also support all amendments supported by the mother's working body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u95	The position of the parliamentary club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be moved by Mr Ljubo Germič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u96	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, member of the Ministry of Health! Dear colleagues and colleagues! For the first time, the Republic of Slovenia is considering a comprehensive cross-cutting and interdisciplinaryly coordinated strategic document that addresses the entire food chain in terms of health impacts through systematic measures. The resolution on the national food policy programme 2005-2010 has been the product of many coordinations between ministries, professions and NGOs for several years. The text that we are considering today is the text that the previous government has drawn up and that the new government has submitted to Parliament by introducing certain changes. Why does the Republic of Slovenia need its own national food policy programme? The answer to this question is clear because research shows that the people of Slovenia have unhealthy eating habits and we are not physically active enough. Our children and adolescents also eat irregularly and unhealthyly. As a result of unhealthy nutrition and a low level of physical activity, the proportion of overnourished children and adolescents is increasing, while the proportion of malnourished children and children and adolescents with eating disorders is also increasing. Key organisational barriers are recognised in terms of the supply of healthy nutrition in different environments, especially in secondary schools and in jobs and in the lack of education related to healthy nutrition and healthy lifestyles at different levels of education. Unhealthy eating habits and lifestyles are reflected in a number of chronic infectious diseases, which are a great burden for Slovenian health and the economy. It is amazing that healthy diet and healthy lifestyle can prevent as much as 60% to 80% heart and vein disease and 30% cancer. What will the Republic of Slovenia gain by implementing food policy measures? The implementation of the resolution's activities on the national food policy programme from 2005 to 2010 will lead to improvements in nutrition habits and indicators of healthy nutrition for all age groups that are particularly at risk through: for the first time, the design and implementation of food standards, standards and guidelines for healthy nutrition for the various objectives of the group. Secondly, improvements in the supply of healthy nutrition in different environments in public institutions such as schools, kindergartens, student homes, hospitals, nursing homes through the implementation of food standards and standards, as well as in the workplace and catering and tourist establishments through the development and implementation of the "Health-friendly, health-friendly" trademark. Third time. Improving knowledge and skills for healthy nutrition by complementing educational programmes in terms of healthy nutrition and healthy lifestyles for all levels of education, including postgraduate education for teaching workers and professional education of staff involved in the production, processing and supply of food and food. By establishing a new educational programme and a new profession as a food adviser, by intensifying awareness and promoting safe and healthy nutrition in all environments for the general population, and in particular for those groups that are more at risk, these are, children, adolescents, pregnant women, nursing mothers, socio-economically disadvantaged and otherwise disadvantaged groups of the population, particularly vulnerable occupational groups such as heavy physical workers and farmers, rural environment, etc. Fourth time. Efforts to promote the supply of healthy food in the food industry and efforts to establish and strengthen local sustainable food supply, including increased environmental and drinking water care and the promotion of local economies and rural development. Fifth. Ensuring greater accessibility to the health of useful foods and healthy nutrition also to vulnerable groups. Six. In terms of the current situation, the document also gives special emphasis to the inhabitants of the rural environment through the application projects, whose good practice has proved effective in recent years. It's a week. Appropriate care is also focused on the health-threatening populations of both children and adults, supported by preventive programmes that take place in basic health care and already show good results in reducing the risk of cardiovascular diseases. Eight. For patients in hospitals and the elderly in their homes, the document provides for strategies to establish quality food support and nutrition counselling in hospitals and to strengthen diet counselling. In the Liberal Democracy Club, we believe that the adoption and, of course, the implementation of this food resolution has ensured the improvement of the supply of safe, healthy and healthy food, as well as the improvement of the eating habits of the people of Slovenia. The resolution and its successful implementation will, of course, have an impact on the better health and quality of life of all the inhabitants of the Republic of Slovenia, and we support the resolution on the National Food Policy Programme 2005-2010 in the Liberal Democracy Club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u97	Thank you for your comprehensive report. In turn, I invite Mr Bojan Kontić to present the position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u98	Thank you very much. In the Group of Members of the United Nations Social Democrats, we will support the resolution's complementary proposal on the National Food Policy Programme 2005 by 2010. This in itself will not directly improve food policy, but is a good basis for the preparation of action plans by individual ministries. In doing so, it is commendable to note that cross-sectoral or intersectoral cooperation is essential for the planning and implementation of food policy. The efforts of the Ministry of Health or the Ministry of Agriculture alone are certainly not sufficient and would not be sufficient. There is certainly no need to overlook the importance of the participation of NGOs. Only food interventions or food intakes, as identified in the resolution, are not sufficient. Finding the right relationship between good nutrition and consumption of food is of the utmost importance. It is right that the proposed resolution contains the importance of movement, including sports activities, in achieving synergies with health. The resolution also contains some worrying data on the fact that we are still lagging behind developed Western European countries in the area of life expectancy, but it points out that early mortality due to disease in Slovenia is declining. It is also worrying that the proportion of pupils and pupils aged between the ages of 7 and 19 who have an adequate body weight is lower and over-nutrition on the one hand and unfortunately also the number of pupils with an extremely low body weight is increasing. The share of dissatisfied with their weight is increasing among students of both sexes. Therefore, the data in themselves point to the need for food changes. For some time now, students have been reminding us of their eating problems, which is arranged for primary school students and then for students, and somehow the students have been left to themselves and the school they attend. Unfortunately, there are also more and more adults who face food problems. Among them are the homeless and others who do not have a single warm meal a day. The local communities, which now regulate this in their own way, certainly expect a more active role for the country in this area. At this point and at this point, we can also find out how important lunch is for employees and how important it was the efforts of all those who opposed thinking that lunch time would be cut off from working time. Gradually, this would lead to the fact that employees do not eat during working hours, which is of good quality. And the damage caused by this would certainly be greater than the cost of time spent on eating during working hours. Addressing all these shortcomings is an integral part of the proposed resolution, including the promotion of quality life, which also includes a healthy diet. As I have already said, the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will support the proposed resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u99	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the position of the New Slovenia Group. Mrs. Marjetka Uhan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u100	Hello, everyone in the hall! We have a motion for a resolution on the national food policy programme 2005-2010 prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The resolution is based on research and the fact that so far nutrition policy has been poor, unplanned or non-existent. The results mainly refer to poor eating habits, poor habits, and overnutrition. The result is poor health, excessive weight, poor self - image. About 40% of the most important and common diseases in us are subject to nutrition and another 40% are dependent on nutrition. The findings speak in addition to poor nutrition, including the lack of physical activity of the population. Research shows that there is an irregular and poor diet in the rural population, the less educated, the economically weak, and this is especially true for Eastern Slovenia. Of course, we are skeptical of such findings, in particular to research on your population, it is likely that the Slovenian countryside is meant here as well as to Eastern Slovenia. Above all, we think that nutrition is slightly different in the countryside, which is also linked to tradition and culture, lifestyle and is not said to be worse. Even worse, it seems to us to instill in the population the recommendation that the milk they produce on farms is unhealthy due to milk fat, that they prefer to interfere with processed and poor milk; that they also discuss unhealthy red meat, and that we know that the white meat coming to the market with farms is mostly on concentrates, in feeders; that it is not unhealthy, but that the question is how much natural and needs specific recommendations. In New Slovenia, however, we welcome the sustainable care of people with quality home food, which is environmentally friendly. We are convinced that we have a healthy environment and quality food in Slovenia. We have natural conditions, knowledge and opportunities for a varied offer for all kinds of food. We lack the confidence of Slovenian food growers and wonder what public institutions avoid from Slovenian vegetable and fruit growers; food is a living matter that never, without consequences, tolerates long-term storage in refrigerators, transport and other manipulations. And that's also the reason why you're interfering with home-grown food. In Nova Slovenija we welcome the recommendations of the food policy that cooperation and the active role of various ministries, colleges, interest associations and civil society will be needed to participate in the education and education of the population in the field of nutrition. We welcome all activities in raising young people's awareness, as young people are at risk of being affected by a group of people, mostly eating irregularly, affecting less healthy food, while many young girls are becoming increasingly dissatisfied with their appearance, with weight. There are more and more young people being treated for bulimia, anorexia. We welcome the distribution of milk and fruit by school. Such food should essentially replace the current meal, but not only be an additional meal offer. Any machine with a sodad artificial drink after school is unnecessary. However, it would certainly be good to replace them with water vessels and to teach them properly about food and drink, as well as about moderation in food consumption. In the New Slovenia Group, we support the resolution of the food policy, recognizing that the habit of iron shirts cannot be changed overnight. The choice of food and diet depends not only on teaching but also on the economic situation of the population. In all of this, however, it is not possible to ignore the culture of nutrition and the rich cuisine of the Slovenians, which is part of our heritage and often manifests itself unjustly as a source of unhealthy food. It must be said that bread and milk were a few decades ago the daily food of many people and the meat was only for larger holidays. There were plenty of seasonal vegetables and fruits, and many have never eaten before. They ate to survive, and today it seems that we live to eat. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u101	Thank you. Here comes the presentation of the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Michael Prevc.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u102	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! The resolution on the national food policy programme 2005-2010 is an important policy document of the Republic of Slovenia, as it provides for broad inter-resort and inter-institutional synergies in its implementation. Strategies and measures to achieve better public health are complemented by measures and strategies in the field of agriculture, education and education, work and social security, the environment and other important areas and are designed to provide safe food along the entire food chain, to establish, maintain and strengthen the healthy eating habits of the people of Slovenia, and to ensure adequate supply of quality and health-friendly food produced in a sustainable manner. The substantive and strategic resolution is not only aimed at reducing the health burden due to disease and risk factors for its development, but also contributes significantly to the welfare of other areas, such as population conservation and rural development, the development of local economies and local sustainable food supply, which is one of our country's core documents. We are pleased that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has drawn up a document and submitted it to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, as we believe it will make an important contribution to the healthy nutrition and better health of the people of Slovenia. The implementation of the resolution also offers an opportunity for Slovenian agriculture, which, due to relative smallness and fragmentation and non-organisation in terms of the integration of small farms, is more difficult to implement in a competitive market. It is commendable that, after a long-standing process of drafting and designing food policy and interdisciplinary and interdisciplinary coordination, the Government has reached a consensus between different areas of public health, agriculture, education, consumer protection and the non-governmental sphere and has coordinated objectives, strategies, necessary activities and activities in implementing food policy into practice. What we particularly support and what is important is the importance and role of the Slovenian farmer in the resolution, as the activities envisaged offer new opportunities for inclusion in the local market and for contributing to the supply of safe and healthy food for the Slovenian population. In the past, food production has often highlighted the importance of protecting human health and the environment, water and other natural conditions, but this has not always been possible in practice with intensive production technologies. We also support the proposal to include locally produced food through the integration of local farmers in the diet of our children in kindergartens, schools, students and student homes and in public nutrition in hospitals, nursing homes and other public institutions. The possibility of including in local supply in the implementation of food policy will make it easier for many farms that do not reach the dimensions of EU farms to integrate their fruit or vegetables into the market. The resolution is set in the right direction, as it also includes mechanisms to accelerate the integration of the Slovenian farmer into the domestic market for safe and healthy nutrition. The implementation of the local sustainable supply envisaged by the food policy ensures an increase in the proportion of quality, health and locally specific food in the population. The creation of new market opportunities for a local farmer and a positive contribution to the protection and conservation of the environment and soil quality, the reduction of the harmful effects of pesticides on the environment, the conservation of the biological diversity of ecosystems and the sustainable use of energy, the protection of groundwater, the contribution to the increase of social and human capital in rural areas, and the strengthening and development of the agricultural economy. At the same time, the document brings together all important partners at national level, including a number of ministries and agri-land chambers of Slovenia, who will be able to motivate local farmers to produce environmentally sustainable food, with their expertise and agricultural advisers responsible for education and training on the ground, which will be of good health and health to Slovenian consumers. We see these opportunities mainly from the point of view of ensuring the economic progress of small farms, in Slovenia the villages are still empty, despite the fact that at European and national level we are fighting for progress and rural development. The Slovenian peoples believe that this situation can be reversed if we know a Slovenian farmer to show opportunities, motivate him properly and educate him, help him open the market for his crops, which the food policy with its objectives and tasks provides very well, thus contributing to the development and preservation of the population of the Slovenian countryside. The system for ensuring local sustainability of food supply, which is produced by nature and humane in a good way, according to organic and co-natural farming methods, is also supported by the reason that such projects are already successfully implemented in other European countries and show good economic results while at the same time contributing to improving the nutrition of the population. Local sustainable supply is also linked to better food quality, as long-term transport is not necessary, while good supervision can also be established, ensuring additional quality and health integrity of food. Systems have also proved to be good for the local farmer abroad, in England, Germany, Italy and also in Denmark, as this ensures a permanent market and a demand for fresh food, while improving the eating habits of the population. The Slovenian People's Party Parliamentary Group supports the orientation of the draft resolution on the National Food Policy Programme 2005-2010 and believes that the strategies for health protection will be put in place through activities to ensure healthy and balanced nutrition, food safety and the establishment of a local sustainable supply system properly implemented in practice and will contribute to a much useful and good improvement of Slovenian citizens' health and eating habits, to improving the socio-economic status of Slovenian farmers and to the development of the Slovenian countryside.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u103	We have heard the last position of the Group of Members, so we have ended by presenting our views, following a general debate on the motion for a resolution. On the basis of the applications, I give the floor to my colleague, Janko Webr.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u104	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone. The resolution on the National Food Policy Programme 2005-2010 is certainly one of the more interesting documents that we also adopt in the National Assembly. This is a document that certainly includes a very wide range of all those who must participate in the implementation of this programme. This is, of course, very simple principles, if we call it, respect for the ethical principles of all participants in the food chain from the processing, production, distribution and marketing of food to, of course, the shared responsibility of all such sector policies and, of course, the policies of maintaining and strengthening health. All of this is to be seen and the resolution points out in its writings, but there will certainly be a great deal of effort to make the resolution live in practice. We are often bound to very clear instructions in public procurement, where the criteria are usually the lowest price and not mainly the quality of the food you then offer below in this chain. And many times it is the very appearance of a product and the equipment of a product that they offer in a store, related to choosing a product that is personally equipped, and perhaps then overlooking that part that speaks of the very quality of this product. Advertising of products or the role of the media is also extremely important in these procedures. Thus, the intertwining of interests from purely economic to those who survive the production of a particular product is exceptional. I would therefore like to point out in particular that there will be an enormous amount of effort to be made by all the resources involved in this national programme to the greatest extent possible. However, I would also like to stress the role of NGOs, because we often face distrust in the public of some official institutions, and this is often because these institutions are more difficult to respond to because they have to respect certain rules, procedures, hierarchy, and then many times in food policy, if we talk about it, there are many things that can be seen in these institutions as a slow response. And NGOs have the advantage of being able to respond significantly faster to either some trade event, in the media, producers, in short, they have an extremely important role to play, and it is right to try to encourage them in their operation also further, including through food policy measures. In this way, it seems to me that we could gain first and foremost confidence in a particular product that appears on the market and which could then achieve a significantly better quality of nutrition than otherwise, if we follow some narrow market logic. I believe that with this debate in the National Assembly and this procedure, which this document has, we will, in my opinion, contribute to trying to understand this problem and that it is possible to organise life in a much more rational way, taking into account all the elements that are enshrined in this food policy. That is why I will support this resolution on the national food policy programme, and I would like to see it in practice as much as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u105	Thank you, Mr. Weber. I give my word to my colleague Kucler Dolinar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u106	Thank you very much. We have before us a resolution on the national food policy programme. I would prefer to refer to it as a resolution on the national food policy programme. As with this resolution, as with the other programmes that we are adopting here in the National Assembly, I really don't know why we are so avoiding the words'state, state, state'. So the resolution that we have before us was an extremely interesting reading to me, not only as a working material to prepare for the meeting, but mainly from the point of view of the recommendations that it makes and makes to me, both in the daily preparation of food and in the consumption of food. Above all, because I think the document means some counterweight to all the advertising messages that we get poured on us every day. And it was in those days that we were able to read in the daily newspaper that one of the food advertisers, on a recommendation or medical inspection request, had to stop or adjust the advertising campaign on a certain beverage because it was not conducted under the terms of our legislation or with the cooperation of the Ministry. In addition, there is a whole series of books and magazines from which we can learn about healthy diets, but then we encounter conflicting information. I believe that the content of the resolution should indeed be extended to the greatest circle of citizens, including the fact that, as we have heard today, only half of the population in Slovenia have normal body weight, only one third of normal cholesterol, only one third of normal body weight, and that half of us are unhealthyly fed. I have also found that nutrition is not entirely in line with the resolution tabled. Children and adolescents are particularly at risk. I find that particularly disturbing. And the resolution has set itself very ambitious goals, which will not only be achieved by the participation of different ministries and task holders, but also by us, individuals, because everything begins and ends with us in the final stage. While the resolution notes that greater economic development has an impact on healthy eating habits, I believe that when we are stressed, we take less and less time to cook at a fast pace of life, as well as to eat. Eating has become a major part of it, too, in terms of fast eating, then going back to work and having a real, pleasant ceremony only at the end of the week. In particular, it is necessary and meaningful to have an impact on the awareness of food producers and processors of healthy diets, quality environments, conservation procedures, transport. I also find it particularly interesting and helpful to recommend that school principals and students’ homes do not put machines for sweet and sodad soft drinks in school buildings. Indeed, the actual arguments also support the idea and the suggestion that local food producers should have priority in the supply of food to school establishments, as this would have an impact on the development of local farmers and also on the development of agriculture. However, this proposal, in order to be explicitly stated in a resolution or legislation, will not fully support that legal judgment in terms of public procurement, but here I would like to appeal in particular to the preparers of tender documents and conditions that, in particular when it comes to the nutrition of children and adolescents, give particular emphasis to the creation of additional criteria, so that they will have a certain price, a certain weight, so that the weight will not only have a price in choice, but also other criteria, particularly certificates on, for example, healthy and safe food production. To conclude, then, I wish all of us as much health as possible for wholesome meals and meals. In the future, even fewer cases, which we have already heard about today, when individuals, not only with money, but also with food, are barely coming from month to month, only so that the menu can be composed entirely in accordance with the guidelines of the resolution. I'll support the resolution.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u107	Thank you, Mrs. Kucleers. Mr Aloise Sok has the next word.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u108	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Minister with co-worker, fellow Members and Members of Parliament! I would also like to touch on this resolution in the light of the Chairman of the Agriculture Committee, who addressed this resolution, adopted several amendments, but unfortunately these amendments on the Health Committee were not then definitively adopted. My colleague, in her opening presentation on behalf of New Slovenia, somehow concluded her debate and said that the custom is an iron shirt. I would add that, in fact, food habits throughout Europe, as well as with us, because we are living in a period of abundance, are changing very quickly. I would say that in these years I myself have seen and experienced great changes in this area. Advertising with various thin ladies who show up and advertise various products, then advertising foods that are healthy for the heart, campaigning against cholesterol and so on changed these eating habits. And it is true, as some have already thought, that today we meet on one side with obesity - and I myself belong to this category of population that should take some care of it - and on the other hand we can see an even greater problem when we encounter various forms of malnutrition. And I think sometimes this form of malnutrition is much more difficult to heal than weight loss. While there is some talk about this in this text, I do not think that this phenomenon in our country is given sufficient attention through the school system. But I know what problems parents have with teenage girls who are influenced by these fashion trends and what they don't do to be, as they say today, cool and so on. In this presentation, I have also heard how agriculture will now be taken care of, but it is precisely in this text that I do not see written in this way as Chairman of the Committee. And once again, I am very sorry that the Health Committee has not shown so much desire and will that any of the amendments of the Committee on Agriculture, which have gone this way, would actually be accepted by producers, farmers, to increase direct sales. I'm afraid you've corrected these amendments on the committee. Okay, I'm not saying the first amendment was not important, but the amendment to section 6.3.1 where we explicitly wrote "increase direct sales", which is the system they know today in neighbouring Austria. The material itself, or this resolution that we have before us, says, "encourage the development of local economies and rural areas." But what does that mean? We can encourage this development as you wish. But if these people don't have a chance to sell directly, yes, what helps him if he gets a ton of cabbage, and that cabbage stays at home in the field. Nothing's helping him. We can only encourage production as much as we want if we do not allow it to be easily sold directly to schools, hospitals, kindergartens and so on, not to mention. In this context, I do not see this written in such a way, as it has been said, that this document was produced in a longer period of the previous government and that we are actually accepting it now at the beginning of this mandate. It also targeted the amendment to Chapter 6.3.2.1 - promoting supply and demand for quality and health-friendly food. On the Committee on Agriculture we have once again followed this objective and introduced concepts such as objectives, direct sales, then farmers directly sell and so on. This is not recorded in this text, which is now available and which has unfortunately been amended by the Health Committee. Otherwise, there are some texts, some of my unspecified goals. If they're not exactly written down, it'll be hard to follow. I would, of course, like to be in Slovenia, not inventing some warm water, but to follow, say, the system we know in neighbouring Austria. In neighbouring Austria today you have many small processing plants that sell directly to local markets or directly to certain users. Unfortunately, in the last four years we have adopted regulations that absolutely prevented this, so today we do not have any such small slaughterhouses, the whole areas are in Slovenia, where there is not really any such establishment. The same is true of processing establishments and so on. I think that there is an enormous responsibility before this government and before all of us, of course, that we will pursue these objectives. When we adopted these amendments on the Committee on Agriculture, I somehow assumed that we had done this part of our task and that this would also be put into this resolution in such a way. Unfortunately, I was wrong and I could obviously do a lot more in this direction than we did. Then it's one of the questions where I see some dysfunction. For example, if I look at agriculture, this country invests a lot of money in the selection of livestock. And that's what all Europe does. We are working hard to select, I don't know, cows to produce milk with more fat, with more protein, and then, of course, we promote the use of nonfat milk through advertising, but there are very popular imported yogurts with different labels such as light, light, and so on. What do we actually want to achieve in this area? Then it is a shame that we invest so much money in acceleration itself, then it has to be somehow conceived and taken into account and by this process actually stopped, because otherwise I think we are causing real damage. On the one hand, we invest and on the other hand, we promote something else. And I'll tell you this, troubleshooting the use of milk and saying that children are too fat to use milk, no, kids are fat because they're sitting in front of computers today because we're driving them to school. If I went to look at a photo from 40, 50 years ago, when we survived exclusively because of the milk in the countryside, if there were no milk, I don't know, because the milk was in the morning and the evening was in the afternoon, the meat was in fact rarely on the table, and there was no obesity, because we had to move much more. But today, children don't actually move, and that's what I think the underlying reason is. I also do not see any real reasons for the problem of the use of red meat. I don't know where the reasons are to simply say that this meat is so harmful to health that we are doing everything we can to reduce this process in livestock farming where we are also investing enormous resources in the field of livestock farming. It's also accelerating. So, I want to point out that the whole policy must then be balanced in a country in such a way that there will be no investment on the one hand and, on the other hand, advertising against. Let me get this straight. If you are going to one of these European countries today, and we are going to Belgium most because of Brussels, there is no breakfast where you will not be served bacon and eggs and their butter made in different ways. This promotes the fullest possible use of this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u109	Thank you, Mr. Sok. Mrs. Majda Shirtz has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u110	Thank you very much. The resolution on the national food policy programme is certainly one policy direction in the country. It is important, as everyone in turn, and I am joining this message, and I also think that this Rapporteur of the National Assembly should be a book publication, because it is precisely in raising awareness and recognizing the issues related to healthy nutrition and the well-being of citizens and citizens in this area that a key message is what the country wants to achieve with such a national programme. Surely, in dealing with food policy, every thought is always in conflict with two interests. Interests following market logic and interests that want to follow a socially-aware view of healthy life. And the market economy, the market logic of pressure, or the principle of a healthy life. After all, we know that healthy nutrition is unimported, organically produced, substantially more expensive than that which looks good and which is more affordable, perhaps even to the less wealthy. In this respect, the financial implications that could be calculated on the basis of such a national programme would probably be enormous. But as it's said, I see it as some kind of value direction, even so detailedly written that there are already cooking recipes in it, which is important. Of course, let me point out that this is not some product, some research, some thinking and analysis that would have happened in one day, but it appears that it followed several years of research, thinking, and that it is nice that the current government has taken over it. It is also interesting that in the review that we are witnessing these days, the work of the previous government has quite a few points to the fact that the previous government has devoted considerable attention to prevention and preventive activities in the field of health, where healthy nutrition and other guidelines are undoubtedly also involved, and that the budget of the Ministry of Health at this point has been substantially increased or, as stated, by even 90% in the context of hospital treatment, but mainly by 2 billion 700 in the field of preventive action. I hope that the current direction of the new government will be followed by such emphasis, including in the field of awareness. I was happy to welcome those activities that went to a propaganda media campaign in the field of healthy life. We all followed not only the jumbo, but also the active calling of people to a healthy life, for which the minister himself offered an example. I took note in the present government's report, which assessed the previous mandate, also of the warnings that the Ministry of Health is the Ministry of Health, because it is one of the umbrellas of this national programme, although we know that the Ministry of Agriculture and the two current school departments are also strongly involved here, as well as the Ministry of Environment and Space. In short, I have been paying attention to the fact that the Ministry of Health, despite the fact that it is supposed to employ a large amount of employment, is still understaffed in those offices or in those areas within its composition, which will also have an important impact on the implementation of this resolution, because the only objective of this resolution is to implement it, not to remain on paper. The Minister mentions that this poor staffing structure is particularly visible at the health inspectorate, at the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Chemicals and at the Radiation Protection Authority. In this sense, irrespective of what I say, the wealth of personnel so far in the Ministry of Health, I hope that you will make sure that this is where it will be. Of course, health does not depend on mandates, as my previous interlocutor, Mr Jelinčič, has said, depending on - its prevention and the food policy programme depends on will. As I say, if the government now has such a programme, I hope that it will be able to make sure that these conflicts, which I mentioned at the outset and which are actually oppressing all modern societies, the conflicts between earnings and healthy nutrition, will be dealt with as best as possible. Let me also highlight or recall those who followed the debates in the previous term at the time of the adoption of the law, which some of you called Kebra's notorious law and restricted the consumption of alcohol and tobacco products, as well as those of the Food and Material Safety Act, which comes in contact with food, how to deal with dilemmas and how to deal with these laws, which have somehow been called prohibitive. I have already said today that certain topics always require time-consuming reflections and intervals and that time brings certain answers. Today, it is noted that they may even have been under-prohibited if I mention the Act on the Limitation of Alcohol and Tobacco Products, as we have noted in the statements that it may be worth considering, or even more restricting them than the previous Minister, with great effort, in Slovenian society. I also followed the report submitted yesterday by the government in the field of the Ministry of Health to the public, where it is stated that certain measures of actively introduced preventive health-style programmes, the above-mentioned alcohol and tobacco law, as well as those with food coming in contact with other materials, will show up, or the effects of these laws will only show up in the future. I believe that they are already and that they are actually already integrated into some departments and some chapters of this programme of national food policy. What one would, of course, recommend to the government is only to continue with such a delicate and enlightening action and important for a healthy life to continue to be actively involved in the most clear and loud awareness of this subject, because only here, as I say, I see a niche, because sometimes it is difficult to prove that full grain bread, which is significantly more expensive than normal, is healthier and that domestic vegetables and fruits, even though it is not as shiny and as perfect as those imported and cheaper from abroad, are healthier for all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u111	Thank you, Mrs. Shirci. Mr. Saiovic has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues, colleagues! Food policy and this resolution, and I will support the strategy in any way, because in this area I see one of the bright points that can promise a better future for Slovenian agriculture, because it is in the area of organic food production that Slovenia can compete with other European countries, but otherwise the possibilities and comparability of Slovenian agriculture against European agriculture are so modest that, given the quantity and mass of Slovenian food, we are having a hard time achieving them in quality, because our environment is relatively well preserved and if we are smart, we will also continue to see them. Some European countries that quickly introduce organic agriculture would be exemplary in this area. And we don't have to look too far here. Already our neighbours Austrians are one of those countries where the share of organic agriculture is the largest in the world. Yesterday I read somewhere that today there are 26 million hectares of land in the world that are being processed in an ecological way. In the last year alone, the proportion of these areas has increased by 2 million hectares, which is extremely large. Austria is exactly the country that leads in this area. Of the European countries to be followed, Switzerland would be important, a little less Italy and then Scandinavian countries. In Europe, this area is already 10%. I think that if we support this issue, we will, of course, allow our consumer a solid income, so that it will be organically produced, safer and healthier food, because it will certainly be more expensive for a few percent than that food that comes in a different way. Last but not least in this story, the attitude towards this trade comes to mind several times, one of the great Slovenian mega merchants, known as a good neighbour, is on the wallpaper several times, but I must say that this particular sale on its shelves is 70%, 72% of the food that is of Slovenian origin. In contrast to other traders, I could say that we are defending national interest in this area. This is said to be more than a price, but it is quality, health, and life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u113	Thank you, Mr. Saiovic. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u114	Thank you very much for your words, and I welcome everything as well. Resolutions are also important documents, as they define the relationship and guidelines at the principal level or indicate future actions in specific areas, which are then dealt with by laws or by annual plans. The characteristic of the vast majority of the resolutions that we have adopted so far was, above all, that they have aroused relatively high media attention, that they have been accompanied by many words, that they have written important conclusions and plans, but that these objectives have not been precisely verified or even less implemented and achieved. In short, to a large extent, they were their own purpose. These were mostly almost all the resolutions we met with in the previous term. This resolution also addresses an important area, an area of food policy, where there is still a lot of reserves and also a lot of shortcomings. I will limit myself to one area, this is to the chapter of youth, especially to secondary youth, to apprenticeships and students. This is part of a population that has the worst food conditions, not only in our education system, but in the entire population structure. It is a group of about 100,000 people who are in the most intensive of spiritual and physical growth. All the research that was done, however, was considerable, indicating that students were extremely poor in nutrition. They eat too little, too few times, meals are inadequate. Most of them do not eat breakfast, nor do they eat lunch later, but if so, they are used more or less only for fast food. Warm meals except in rare locations or in rare schools cannot be obtained. Unordered, irregular and poor nutrition, as well as poor nutrition, have a significant impact on the school process itself, as it increases irritability, reduces students’ concentration, and the learning results certainly fall, and increases the sensitivity to many deviant phenomena, such as violence, drugs, alcohol and other forms of bad habits or perhaps even crime. In this secondary school area, Slovenia has done virtually nothing in the last 60 years and is far behind European standards. In many European countries, the diet of students in secondary schools is even free of charge. However, our schools are neither adequately equipped nor adequately equipped nor equipped, nor are they equipped with adequate timetables. Most high school students are absent for eight to eleven hours, have a cemented schedule, a very short break, and many take their first serious meal late in the afternoon. In the previous term, I have proposed twice that this area should be better regulated, since three or four years of inadequate nutrition during the most sensitive period leaves irreparable health and other problems. However, the political majority of the time did not allow the law to be adopted and approached to resolve this area. Politics was more important than anything else. The young body, Mr Gaber, endures much, so the consequences were largely not immediately visible, and even when they were discovered, they were usually attributed to other causes, such as poor nutrition. There's only so much going on in the kit, but now that this kit's gone, it's going to happen later. I must say, I was quite disappointed, both at the position of both former ministers, both for education and for health. In particular, in his work, the Minister of Health has paid considerable or disproportionate attention to solving various marginal problems, such as the artificial fertilisation of single women, and has completely ignored many warnings and initiatives by a large group of people, namely apprentices and students, as I said in the introduction, who are an extremely large group. Probably also poorer youth nutrition is one of the important reasons for Slovenians to have a shorter life span than many Europeans, especially Alpine peoples. And, in many cases, this is also an important reason why, in this productive creative period, the early days, there are also large absences from work due to diseases that also cause this poor diet in youth. I believe that good economic development cannot be built on excessive hospital absence. I think it makes sense for the diaphragm to be arranged on the same principles as the student diet. It is appropriate to introduce the status quo instead of applying various adaptations or social adjustments. I also believe that the solution to these youth problems needs to be given much more attention, significantly greater will and significantly more money. I also believe that this resolution provides a basis for a more comprehensive and more serious approach to the regulation of secondary food problems. I therefore hope that in the future, the government will also pay much more attention to this issue in this mandate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u115	Thank you, Mr. Tank. As a last resort, Mr Minister has the floor on behalf of the Government. Mr. Gaber, you didn't say before that you'd be misunderstood and have the right to a replica. But there will be time left for you to discuss at the end, if you please. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u116	Good-bye, everybody! Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! Today's debate is interesting because it has shown some general support for this resolution, as I have understood the debate. In fact, today's motion for a resolution is the fruit of long-standing work and coordination. Nevertheless, some changes in the original proposal have recently had to be regulated, particularly with regard to agriculture with regard to local sustainable supply, then also with the Economic Chamber on Food Safety and the like. For the first time in the history of Slovenia alone or in Slovenia in general, we have a cross-cutting and interdisciplinaryly coordinated strategic document aimed at reducing the health consequences of unhealthy nutrition and the unhealthy lifestyle of the people of Slovenia. The resolution on the national programme ahead of us has resulted in the inclusion of many experts in public health, agriculture, education and other important areas, as I said, for several years and has been the product of hard interdisciplinary and interdisciplinary work and many coordinations. Based on accurate analyses of the situation and the consequences of unhealthy nutrition on health, key problems in the whole food and food chain have also been identified with the help of a number of experts. These constitute a good basis and lead to the implementation of comprehensive strategies and measures, which, with their activities, tasks and identified institutions, will serve to improve the current state of the diet and eating habits of the people of Slovenia. Intersectoral activities are particularly exposed to promote and establish local sustainable supply that will support local economies and rural development. Some of the comments made in the debate on the non-adopted amendments are also partly related to the area of legislative amendment, which is necessary in order to put all these amendments into this resolution later. However, we will make sure that we are able to supplement them during this period. What are the reasons why Slovenia needs its own food policy? Data from studies and studies show that as many as three quarters of Slovenians get sick and die due to chronic diseases, in particular cardiovascular and cancer diseases, get sick sooner and more frequently than on average in the EU, while at the same time we have significant differences in health according to individual areas in Slovenia and also among the population groups themselves. We have a high level of risk factors for chronic diseases. We have unhealthy eating habits that are more pronounced in eastern Slovenia and are worse where poor health indicators are also. Large differences in eating habits are also shown in individual social, professional, age groups, as well as between men and women, and what is the imbalance in food production and food supply in Slovenia, the lack of vegetables and fruit production. The medium-term nutritional objectives in Slovenia from 2005 to 2010 are: to increase the consumption of vegetables and fruits, dietary fibers and vitamin C and calcium, to increase the proportion of exclusively breast-feeding children up to six months of age and to prolong breast-feeding to at least one year of age, to reduce the consumption of total fat and mainly saturated fat and alcohol, to reduce the proportion of obesity among adults and to prevent further obesity between children and adolescents. Of course, the problem of undernutrition in certain age groups and also, of course, of deterrence from eating at all with a known anorexia disease are of great importance. The basic objectives of the food policy are to ensure food safety along the entire food chain and to establish, maintain and strengthen the health benefits of the eating habits of all the population, particularly those at risk, to ensure adequate quality and health care for food in a sustainable manner. The resolution therefore identifies key problems, professional recommendations, strategy objectives, activities on all three pillars of the food policy and key actors in strategies and activities to improve the situation. It is now within your purview to support and actively contribute to this resolution [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] to solve this pressing health, economic and social problem in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u117	Thank you, Mr. Minister of Health, Dr. Andrey Brucan. Since the time for discussion has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss it under Rule 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure? Mr. Gaber, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u118	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen! I myself will support the motion for a resolution on the national food policy programme, because, as Mr Minister has just said, we are finally rounding up some reflection on how this policy should be managed in this country. Unlike Mr Tank, it seems to me that he does not appear to be deceiving himself here to prove that we have just discovered America and that now the light finally shines on this land Slovenian. According to him, for example, for 60 years the situation in the field of secondary education and nutrition is the same. This is a statement worthy of the anals, a statement showing a lack of knowledge of the area. For many years, steps have been taken in this area. I think there was almost no set that would not have been so much in schools as in the ministry to move in the direction that we want together so that the quality of nutrition would be better so that food would be more regular. It happened last year, although some people like to disappear. The funds approved by this State Food Council in secondary schools increased by some 10%. It is true, however, that no free diet has been introduced for all. Today, when I am in opposition, I think it is necessary to think very carefully about where we are investing our resources to whom we are giving them. Today, too, colleague Tanko, as a year ago, I am sure that people are sitting here, and that there are quite a few in Slovenia that can pay for their child without the slightest difficulty. However, there are plenty of children in Slovenia who need to be paid more than we pay for this moment and they need to be paid in order to reduce social inequality in a number of other areas. This type of policy is one that we have been following in the past and I think we will in the future if there is any serious reflection. I would like to congratulate Mrs Maucec on the adoption of this resolution. I think she's devoted quite some time to finding a certain degree of consensus in the country, to making a real breakthrough with her team in thinking about eating in Slovenia. The breakthrough we all need, both the youngest and us here with our eating habits. I am so glad that Slovenia is taking steps federally. We are far from being able to be satisfied, but we can be pleased that this step is both in the field of agriculture, to look at food there, at schools, at home, but we are working and I think we are doing it in the right direction.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u119	Thank you, Mr. Gabra. Mr. Gantar has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u120	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It seems to me that it is such a time that a few of our colleagues and colleagues are now testing food policy in the National Assembly, which I think is not bad and, of course, I want a good run for them. But that's not why I called. In Europe, as we know, there have been and have been changes in periods of plenty and periods of hunger. When it was hungry, it was bad. There were decades of people living with diseases, but even when there was plenty, it was not easy. Today we live, at least in Europe, in abundance. We have never had such an abundance of food and diversity, and we have never been so uncertain, so very uncertain about what we eat. We have diseases like BSE and others, then we introduce genetically modified organisms into food. All of this causes uncertainty. Whether this uncertainty is imagined or realistic, it is important that people perceive it as a problem and see it more and more. It is therefore right to react to this situation with a public policy on food and nutrition, which it seems that it will also be adopted in a consensual manner in this national assembly without great opposition. And it is right that we start these themes more than we have ever begun, and of course we are leading to a change in eating habits. At this point, I would also like to point out that food production and food production are as important as its consumption. Even years ago, organic agriculture was something of marginal importance for agricultural policy makers and could be complemented by agricultural policy and only by freaks. Today, I am pleased that, in fact, the focus on organic agriculture has become or has penetrated into the core of agricultural policy, and it has taken a lot of effort to do so. I certainly think that this resolution on the food policy programme is an appropriate basis for well-designed measures and can change the situation in this area. That's why I'm going to support him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u121	Thank you, Mr. Gantar. Mr. Tanko has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u122	Thank you for your word. See, many European countries co-finance dia and apprenticeship diets in secondary schools. When we were preparing the law, we actually mentioned a number of countries, five, six for comparison, where we wrote how these countries regulate, and that's different countries. These are Mediterranean, Scandinavian and Central European countries. And this food problem is obviously being given much more attention by these countries than we do in Slovenia. But the second problem is this. We have, I would say, a secondary and higher education system, a university system that operates under approximately analogue conditions, not the same, but analogous, very similar, at least as far as the burden is concerned, at least as far as the absence from home is concerned. In both secondary school and student work it is about 8 to 11 hours away, but in the field of student nutrition this is regulated by the status of the student you get automatic entitlement to purchase a subsidised voucher, and at a high level, I think 75%, while in the student work we somehow didn't notice this need and we denied it. But I don't think that's appropriate, because students are significantly more attached to their educational process, significantly more tied to their schedule than students, but only things can be more flexible, but they have significantly worse conditions. It is said that only something fast can buy anywhere near school, probably more or less just fast food. So it's an automatic three, four years they have to feed in an unhealthy way with fast-prepared food. Students have this thing two years ago substantially, substantially better arranged. I think we, as a country, need to invest significantly more in this young population, not just because we deny it because, I don't know, they're not voters, like students, but I think it's right to invest significantly more also for the reasons I counted earlier. And these things are probably going to come back to us relatively quickly, because on everything that we bring back to adulthood, it builds on it. If we bring in a bad base, a starting base, then we are likely to be more susceptible to these things or diseases, including various other injuries, if we come with a healthy organism in these middle years, then we can also work more productively and even more qualitatively. I think that this area needs to be regulated not for various speculative reasons, but also for other reasons, especially for these health reasons. And the analogy is made, because many European countries are not dealing with the problem of who comes from such or different families, but they are dealing with this in some way with the status quo, and in principle they are forcing those who choose to eat healthy food with a relatively high subsidy. I think this country will have to come up with a similar solution as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u123	Thank you, Mr. Tank. This concludes the general debate on the motion for a resolution. Since no amendments have been tabled to the motion for a resolution, we will decide on the resolution in accordance with the time frame of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 6th item of the agenda or at the latest at the time set for the vote. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to six. Agenda item - DETAILED PROPOSAL OF THE DECISION ON AMENDMENTS AND SUPPORTS OF THE DECISION ON THE PROGRAM FOR THE SALE OF THE STATE FINANCIAL AND REAL FACILITIES FOR 2004 AND 2005. The draft decree was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The motion for a decree was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. First, I would like to give the floor to a representative of the government and then he will be given the floor by the Chairman of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. I'm asking the government representative to come to the ambo. Here you are, Gorazd Perenič, Secretary of State at the Ministry.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u124	Thank you and welcome! In accordance with Article 80(4) of the Public Finance Act, which provides that each sale of property requires the consent of the national assembly on the basis of proposals drawn up by the various bodies and organisations, the Government has prepared these amendments to the decree before you. This is a real asset for which the public authorities estimate that it is unnecessary for business or that it is for other reasons [[excessive maintenance costs, durability and the like]] rationally resold. The government is proposing these changes because, over the last six months, state authorities have come to some new findings on this property. New proposals have been put together and all these proposals are included in this decree. In the decree, property is worth only a few thousand tolars, property, old government aircraft, even smaller things. Regrettably, the Public Finances Act, which is now in force, requires the agreement of the National Assembly on all assets and is why all the assets for which the government wants to sell are included in the decree. Procedures for divestment - the decree gives only permission - are, of course, regulated by the rules in force. There is also a provision for higher values for valuation, public auctions and so on. This estimated value referred to in the decree is only an approximation, a more pessimistic approximation, that is not the value for which we would agree to sell the assets, but that will be found at the public auction. It is also in accordance with the provisions of the Public Finance Act and the Regulation, issued on its basis, that all the funds thus obtained, the revenue of the State budget and are used strictly to maintain or purchase real property. Furthermore, it may also be necessary for the government to take a stand and so propose to amend legislation accordingly, so that in the future it would no longer be necessary to decide on any minority in the decision of the National Assembly, since these procedures, first of all, are, first of all, to obtain consent, then to value and thus continue to cost less than the value of the property itself. Especially where the property is extremely low. In the decree you will see that property worth only a few thousand tolars, where, of course, the process itself - appreciation and sale - essentially exceeds the value of such property several times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u125	Thank you, Mr. Perenich. I give the floor to the Chairman of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, Mr Bojan Starman, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u126	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! At its 1st meeting, on 2.3.2005, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on Finance and Monetary Policy considered the proposal for a decision supplementing the Decision on the 2004 and 2005 sales programme of State, financial and real property submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia pursuant to Article 80(1) of the Law on Public Finance for consideration by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We have previously obtained an opinion from the legislative and legal service, which emphasises that the proposal for a decision is, in particular, too cheaply justified. This does not follow the decisions of Article 13(3), first paragraph, and in particular the provisions of Article 80, second paragraph, of the Public Finance Act, which provides that the purchase, rental and compensation of State or municipal real property shall be used solely for the construction, purchase and maintenance of real property of the State. In this regard, a much broader explanation would be needed in terms of the use of State resources. Representatives of the Ministry of Public Administration and Services of the Joint Services of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia attended the meeting of the Committee in addition to the Legal and Legislative Service. The discussion was hampered by a lack of substantive explanation of the proposed decision, both in the opinion of individual discussers and of the legislative and legal services mentioned above, both in terms of unclear reasons for the sale of individual types of property, in particular real estate, land and facilities, as well as the use of purchasing assets. In this regard, the view was expressed in particular that the submission of the amendment under consideration would make more sense when the national assembly would be presented with a national budget balance for this year, while the need to complement the substantive explanations of the decree and those estimated amounts should also be made for those types of assets of which the book value is zero. The simultaneous treatment of the proposed rebalancing decree would also, of course, clearly define where this money will also be spent through the sale of this property. There is also the already mentioned sense of dealing with small things at the value of a pair of thousands of tolars and, of course, high values and real estates. Therefore, a question was raised at the Committee's meeting, as had already been said by a government representative, that it was necessary to correct the law on public finances and the law on the enforcement of assets at the 80th point concerning the disposal of State property. It also raised a question on the Committee that certain assets should be offered to local communities and municipalities first, in the event that they would benefit from them not to come, as provided for in Article 21 of the Harmonised Regional Development Act in its second paragraph, which would allow for the free transfer to municipalities, to the relevant local communities, in order to ensure the successful development of these areas. Despite this, the Committee has adopted some amendments, as well as a proposal for a law on the divestment of state property for these two years. The amendments are more editorial in nature and therefore the Committee proposes that the proposed decision be adopted by means of the supplementary amendments annexed to the report and that the amended proposal be adopted by the State Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u127	Thank you, Mr. Starman. I give the floor to the representatives of the Polish groups on the motion for a decree. Mr Vili Rezman will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u128	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The decree we are talking about has been adopted for a longer period of time and it is also quite normal and normal that, given the changed circumstances, needs and possibilities, we should adopt amendments and amendments to this Decision. In general terms, we from our parliamentary group will support this proposal, we also support the amendments, but we have some concerns or we want to highlight some problems, and some of them have already been mentioned today, to which the government should also focus in the future. Firstly, these indicative estimates of values are very relative, but this is not such a problem because the market will already correct this and set the market price that is right. Another problem is senselessness, which has already been highlighted today, meaning to sell and decide in the same way on this high value sale and on the minor value or even those that do not have any value, except useful, because some objects still have useful value. This immediately raises the next problem of selling already sold. Today, we are deciding on some things that have long since been in the other hands that those who carry out with them have already sold and have done the right thing about the economy, because they have a car that is broken all year long in the garage to pay for it, to pay for it, insurance and not know what else is likely to be economical, but at the same time they must wait for this decision to be done, so that what has already been done can be done. It's not just a guess. These are the kind of cases that I, and someone else, I know. The next problem that is immediately noticeable here is the centralisation of decision-making when we can find that not even those equipment, those computers that have been used, and I don't know what else people can decide to do with institutions that are powerful institutions that operate with several hundred million or billions of values over the current year, but cannot sell some equipment that is defined as equipment without value. We therefore note that managers in this sense are in fact without all competences. And when competence is not available, then it is not possible to expect something of special responsibility. People with a multimillion-dollar gross personal income may not decide to sell off a property worth 5,500 dollars, for example, or that is worthless. The next problem we would like to mention is the problem of registering inactive, commercially unnecessary, even burdensome state property, which appears directly as state property or as property in para-national institutions. This, in my view, is sometimes harmful, because those municipalities that claim compensation for the use of building land for these buildings are, of course, satisfied with this, but the state in this way spends money instead of looking in time for the investor who will then be able to convert this value into business. Let me put it this way. In my congregation, we have a cabin that has been closed for three years, a cottage that has been very well visited, which is owned by the state, for which hundreds of people have signed and asked the previous minister and the current minister, including me, to do something about it, and we have not received an answer at all, not a positive or negative one, as if nothing had happened. And this property of a peaceful soul perishes, is not in use, is in harm's way, and is not in our great reputation. That is why we, too, are those who represent the view that it is necessary to transfer as much and prudently as possible to the local community if they are to know how to use this property more rationally. Among other things, some of this is written in a coalition contract, which writes something about land funds and similar things to support development in local communities. Let me conclude with the conclusion that the DeSUS Group will support this and expects the Government or the Ministry to take some of our proposals into account and take appropriate measures.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u129	Thank you, Mr. Rezman. Mr Miro Petek will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u130	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. In the SDS Group, we will support the proposed decision on amendments and additions to the decision on the 2004 and 2005 divestment programme. Of course, we will also support the proposed amendment to remove the part that talks about the land and facilities of the former military-medical centre of Rome Toplice from the sale. First of all, I would like to point out that in the SDS Group of Members, we do not oppose the finding of a good owner and a good master of the Roman Warfare. This should have happened decades ago. And all that's been happening to this facility and what's still going on with this facility these days is a great shame. It is therefore essential that the matter be settled quickly and definitively. However, since the property of the Republic of Slovenia is being sold, due care and attention by Members is also needed. We have extensive documentation about the rental and potential sale of this complex. There are several uncertainties in this dossier, which the government should also clarify before the final decision is taken. Last year, the former government had an unusually fast paced business. The Treaty establishing a betting right between the Government and the MRC - a medical rehabilitation centre - was signed on 3 December last year. This is the day we have already elected a new government in this Parliament. The annex to the real estate contract was concluded by the government on 2 December last year, the day before we elected a new government in this Parliament. The lease agreement was signed by the government a few months earlier, on 28 September 2004. On behalf of the Government, the Minister signed these documents without a passport from Zdenka Kovac. This is interesting or strange, as you would like to see the MRC-medical rehabilitation centre on the contract as a tenant, and the MRC-medical-recreational centre has always been stamped on the documents. With such a weak contract or inconsistentity, a network of new issues and also the very validity of the contracts are raised. From 2000 until the departure of the previous government, it was quite lively around the Roman Toplice. The first tender in 2000 was an invitation to tender and at that time the government with Barsus MC had already signed a preliminary contract on long-term lease or lease with the right of the tenant to early purchase. Last year, on 30 June 2004, a proposal was made for a real estate agreement between the RS Government, Barsus and the MRC. This Treaty, however, concludes that the baseline value of buildings and functional land subject to the contract is more than 985 million tolars. This contract has not been signed. This contract provided for the rental of these properties in the Roman Spas for 50 years and an annual rent of 2.5% of the estimated value. However, in a later and signed contract on short-term rental of this complex dated 28 September last year, the valuation value of 180 million tolars and an annual rent of 4.5 million tolars is recorded. This lease also provides for the option of redemption after the already mentioned price of 180 million tolars. On 28 June last year, the government terminated a pre-contract with Barsus. It then decided on a new attempt, not for a public tender this time, but for a public tender, and the MRC already mentioned was selected. In doing so, it will not be too much to add that the founder of MRC - Medical Rehabilitation Centre is Barsus MC. According to the latest available data available to me on the Internet, there were no employees in this company. The RS Public Fund for Regional Development and Preservation of the Population of Slovenian Rurals granted a loan of EUR 258 million to Barsus MC on 28.6.2004, which was already approved by the RS Public Fund for Regional Development and Preservation of the Population of the Slovenian Rural. This decision was repealed last year and on the same day granted an MRC - Medical Rehabilitation Centre loan of 300 million tolars. The price of 180 million tolars, as far as the potential purchase is concerned, could be discussed. As mentioned earlier, one estimate revolves around a bad billion tolars. This complex covers 61 plots with a land area of more than 230 thousand square metres and 28 building rights with more than 11,000 square metres of current building areas. Inestimable wealth is also in healing water, which annually flows more than a billion litres. All these developments cast doubt on the fact that the tenders were tailored to the skin of a specified entity. We call on the government to clarify as soon as possible what has happened in these years, to examine the legal consequences of the conclusion of these transactions and to ensure that the medicinal complex of Rome Toplice is sold as transparent and fair as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u131	Thank you, Mr. Mir Friday. Mr Vili Trofenik will present the position of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u132	Thank you for your word. Have a nice hello to all of you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u133	Could you step in front of the ambon, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u134	In explaining the proposal to supplement the decision on the sale programme for State and real property, the applicant justifies the proposal for additional sales of the property on the grounds that the proposed asset for sale is unnecessary and therefore makes sense to sell it. However, it is possible to agree with this argument, but similar to the consideration of similar programmes in the past, the lack of adequate legal solutions is reaffirmed, both as regards the sense of the consideration of the proposal for a property sales programme, the negligible value in the National Assembly and the lack of criteria for the classification of assets as non-profitable assets, and as regards the means of transport, among which we find the oldest vehicle aged 15 years, the youngest vehicle for 2 years, as well as the corresponding lack of criteria for real estate. In any event, changes to the legislation in force are necessary in the sense that only assets of a certain value up are considered in the National Assembly. In accordance with the Public Finance Act, the annual sales programme for state property is prepared in the preparation process of the state budget. The proposed amendment to the 2005 State Property Sales Programme was submitted for consideration to the National Assembly outside the framework of the adoption of the State budget or its rebalancing, which is legally permissible, but the question of intentional consumption of purchases is raised. In principle, purchases are intended to purchase or build and maintain real state property and the present act does not define the purpose of purchasing and raises the issue from this point of view, in particular because it is a process outside the procedures for adopting the State budget or the rebalancing. The list of expected additional assets foreseen for sale in 2005 also contains properties that could be earmarked for the promotion of coherent regional development by transferring to interested local communities, in accordance with the provisions of the law on the promotion of coherent regional development. In this regard, we have also drawn up an appropriate amendment, as there is no defined procedure for transferring assets to local communities if they are interested. Our Group cannot, in the light of what we have said, support the proposed amendment to the annual sales programme of state property or support it if it would be possible to transfer real estate to interested local communities in terms of accelerating development and if the purchases were to reduce the budget deficit or the lack of own participation to obtain funds from the European Community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u135	Thank you, Mr. Trofenic. Mr Dusan Kumer will present the position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u136	Thank you, Mr. President, for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Group of Members of the United Nations Social Democrats, we are not satisfied with such a speedy and superficially completed decision on the sale of state property. We are also asking why the government has not prepared this decision at the same time as the budget rebalancing it before summer. Why is he in such a hurry? The basic finding of the proposed decision is, as was also found in the debate on the parental committee and, last but not least, the legislative and legal service has warned that there is virtually no more substantial substantive explanation, even in that part of the annex to the decree concerning the divestment of property and land of greater value. Will the government adhere to the Public Finance Act, in particular the second paragraph of Article 80, which expressly provides that the purchase can only be used for the construction, purchase and maintenance of real property? That's not clear. None of this is stated or indicated in the explanation. This, of course, may raise reasonable doubts that this has been done consciously and not in the face of awkwardness. We also believe in the United List of Social Democrats that when it comes to the sale of property, holiday facilities, the government and the competent ministry are acting completely irrationally, uneconomically and unfairly, both to workers employed in state administration and to social partners. At least, what would be expected is that before the decision was drawn up, they would meet with the unions of state and social authorities and together determine whether these capacities really need to be resold or found any other solution. For example, to listen to the proposal to first make a list of all holiday facilities, both in Croatia and in Slovenia - this is not the least - which are owned by national and social authorities, their value is realistically assessed and then managed by someone who is interested in this. For example, to establish a society in a body where people from the ministries and representatives of employees in public administration, who are, last but not least, honest, have contributed a lot of their money to these facilities in recent years. Not that these objects are now sold at ridiculously low prices. In the catalogue, which is an attachment, you have indicated that it is a holiday house, which I will say something else later, which is sold even five times, ten times lower than the market price. It would also be much more rational, in the view of the United List of Social Democrats, if the government went to the municipalities to pursue their development ambitions and offered them, for example, the Ministry of Defence to manage facilities and land, for example. It is far from being said that it is most rational for a State or a single ministry to sell off a property, and for its development the municipality or the municipal community has similar needs, buying it out on the open market, buying it from private entities or even straw legal entities that may have bought it from the country in the past. In short, when the talks on property and land are of greater value, the government should first examine the interest in the local community, as in the case of the trade unions' holiday facilities, and then go on sale. That is why we support the proposed amendment tabled by the Liberal Democracy in the United List of Social Democrats. With this motion for a decree and this product, the government has shown that it has two faces. The first one has been showing for some time every day when we listen to the boasting of ministers and others through the departments studying in detail, analysing the situation, working night and day. And second, when we have a concrete government-specific product on the table, which is the real opposite of this boasting. I think I would also refuse to use another syntagma from the past, my executive board in my swim club. Because we have a nice list where real estate can be sold at ridiculously low prices. Some of them don't even have value, and they're not small things. For example, the business space in Ljubljana at Kotnikova is 600 square meters, which has no value or price, or a holiday house with a garage of 50 square meters in Daila, which is sold at a ridiculously low price of 6 million sitt. I think that's about what the stairs cost to the sea, or, in Maribor, an apartment of 36.10 square meters for the value of 200 000 sitt. That the National Assembly would not give the exchange rate to the government in order to make things happen that my predecessor, colleague Friday, believes in the United List that to prepare the budget rebalancing is sufficient time, things are better prepared, they are more realistic and, above all, they are clearer to see where and why the funds thus obtained will also be used. As a result of this decree, we will not support the United Nations list in the Group of Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u137	Thank you, Mr. Kumar. Mr Cyril Testen will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u138	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Members of Parliament and Members of the Government. The New Slovenia Group will support the proposal for a decree on the complementary programme for the sale of state property, and we also support the amendments of the parent committee and also the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. The Group of Members will support the decree for the following reasons in particular. We believe that it is necessary to sell assets that are assessed as being deemed businessly unnecessary as soon as possible. Especially because some facilities are in very poor condition. In our view, previous governments should work more actively in this area because we have lost a great deal of value, which will be difficult to replace. I know a few examples of apartments and other facilities, especially here I am referring to military facilities and apartments that are in very poor condition today. However, we do not agree with the LDS amendment, because this amendment foresees the surrender of virtually all assets, it offers on an open list all property to municipalities within 30 days. Otherwise, we would agree to offer to those less developed municipalities, in accordance with the law on coherent regional development, which have programmes for the preparation or construction of craft zones, industrial zones and various other development projects. We cannot agree, however, that we simply donate state property on average. There was a lot of debate on the committee - which has not yet been discussed today - about the sale of residence in Washington. In our view, this decision is correct, especially because it is envisaged that these funds will be invested in the reconstruction of the embassy acquired by Slovenia in a successful process. We also agree with the findings of all those who have said that a distinction needs to be made between funds of lower and higher value and that the law on public finances needs to be corrected in this regard. As for the value of zero and small values, we agree that some things are not properly assessed. Government representatives have already said several times that this does not mean that these assets will be sold at these values, but that the issue of valuation, the preparation of each individual asset, then public auctions, and that we will come up with the extract that we expect. So that the New Slovenia Group does not see a reservation in this regard and we will also support the motion for a decree in accordance with our previous positions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u139	Thank you, Mr. Testen. Mr Josip Bajc will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u140	Dear Mr President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! Members of the Slovenian People's Party Group will support the decree on the sale programme for the years 2004 and 2005. Members of the parliamentary group expect from now on the competent authorities of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to implement the relevant decree by content, in particular in that part which speaks of sales or other forms, stressing the "other forms" of possession of real property that has been in decline for more than 15 years and has so far been unwilling or otherwise that this property has been obtained by a good master, which until now the government or its authorities have not been. Let me give just a few examples: empty and decaying barracks, empty and decaying barracks, empty and decaying guards, empty and decaying apartments, either in residential homes or in towers and many more concrete cases, I could count from the area from which I come. The Group also expects that the work of the competent authorities of the Government will be up-to-date in order to bring the decision under review and that we will not review the proposal to amend the decision on the sale of real and financial assets in the coming year, and that we will only change the content of Article 3 and add the year 2005, at the end of 2001, 2002, 2003, 2004. Members of the parliamentary group also call on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to draw up, as soon as possible, a comprehensive list of the real real estate, which is owned by the State and, if possible, with the 2006 and 2007 budget, the real estate that the State or Government does not need for its work comes into force either for sale or for another form of alienation, taking into account all those colleagues of the debaters and debaters who have mentioned that part of this property, which, as I have said, has been falling apart or failing for almost 15 years, could also be allocated to the consistent regional development of local communities or areas where these real estates are located. The emissary group will support the decree.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u141	Thank you, Mr. Baitz. Mr Sašo Peče will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u142	Your Honors are here! Those who have listened attentively to the debate held so far by representatives of the Group may say with certainty that a number of quality concerns have been raised. At the outset, I would like to touch on one of the points of view of the speaker who has expressed his delegation's position that it would be possible to include in the act itself or in the previous stage of the act all those partners that are more or less close to the state administration. He was talking about the union and he was talking about the workers in connection with the holiday facilities. In my opinion, of course, this would make a lot of sense in the original phase. In the second phase, I would extend only the position, i.e. trade unions in connection with holiday facilities, also to that type of housing facility in terms of solving housing problems within the framework of employees in the state administration. In particular, given that the majority of the property is smaller than the size of the square, which I consider to be very appropriate, so if we take into account the square, for the so-called service apartments of employees in the state administration, I speak mainly for young families or all those who are one of the conditions for carrying out their job. According to the list of attached properties or apartments, living facilities. It is evident from the locations that this is all over Slovenia, which, of course, would help me in my assessment to double the meaning of the new approach, as mentioned in part by one of the speakers of the parliamentary group, and we are now upgrading things on behalf of the National Party. As for the very act before us today, I estimate that it should be to humiliate the National Assembly. At a certain point, we have the content of items sold by the State, as the initiator initially said, where even valuations and sales processes themselves go beyond value. So we're making absolutely no sense. In another case, it is a matter of some major things, whether it be one of the older government planes or, of course, property in the Roman spas. But in any case, I do not intend to go into the competence of appreciation, because I am also not qualified to do so, but I would like to stress the criticism that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, or the implementation of the parliamentary groups so far, should be subject to criticism. In the context of this point, we have been talking for quite some time. However, I am afraid, or so far, the practice has been that whenever we have talked about the sale of state property institutionalised in the form of banks, we have not even devoted ourselves to it in the entire previous term, and I am afraid that we will not devote it today. As you probably know, the biggest things in this country, the ones that were to be saved by issuing the bonds of the Republic of Slovenia, by means of the Bank Recovery Act, for example, we meet and we have really huge financial amounts there, but not by the previous government and not by today's government, that turned out yesterday, is not ready to talk about the sales system, for example banks. There have been many such economic operators where we have not met in the National Assembly. We're facing a car sale issue. That's not the case today. If we look inside the 70% line that say what the state will sell and whether the National Assembly agrees. When we talk about cars, when we talk about less valuable cars, I apologize when we talk about property of less market value, but when we talk about the bank, the National Assembly does not want to discuss it. Where is the logic of this national assembly, or better yet, to ask where is the logic or the former government or this government? Today, Members and Members will be given the opportunity to decide in the context of the first vote on how the sale process of the New Credit Bank Maribor will be. To be honest, I am interested in who among you, especially among the government Members, because I think you will be in a very big dilemma if you've been asking a lot of questions three months ago about how transparent sales must be, how from the system or from sales revenues must be paid or reduced public debt, because in the final stage of public debt has increased directly to the account or mainly to the account of the resolution of the banking system, where the money went exclusively to the two banks, one is the New Credit Bank Maribor, the other New Ljubljanska Bank. We are talking about extremely high amounts, but of course we do not want to discuss them. And that's the fear, or rather, the criticism that I'm giving from this place. We are engaged in the sale of cars, as a rule 70% are in this act, 70% of the items. However, when we have the opportunity to talk about the sense of sale, about the purchase, about the future investor, about the Slovenian national development, what banks should in any way represent, and that is not what the Members have wanted to hear in four years. In the report before us today, the motion for a decree even tells us what the legal acts of sale are, in the end, otherwise a very modest explanation, which was also pointed out by the legislative and legal service, but sends us on the basis of the law and finally to the regulation of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. In another case, when I talk about the sale of state property in the form of banks, bank investments, we don't even have a legal basis. In 1994, at the time of the adoption of the constitutional law at a closed meeting, because the constitutional law was supposed to carry a weight, I stress that a special decision was taken in which a speech was taken on whether the State would assume obligations on the part of the poor business to date, i.e. those two banks, the State would issue bonds, credit or indebted citizens and citizens, but for this the proposal of the then Governor of the National Bank was adopted, on the proposal of the current Finance Minister and, of course, on the basis of the discussions, you could all probably get in the Lotus Notes computer network a magnetic record, a decision on the sale of state property, or even better said, on the sale of banks for which we will reward citizens with a new debt, a law will be passed for the first time, a law on the privatisation of banks. So we don't have a basis for privatisation or sales, so we don't have something here, but we don't have much more property. And in the second part, the decision was made, in that part that citizens and citizens would be involved in the sale. Why? We've already charged them with the value of recovery, which means the issue of bonds. And, ladies and gentlemen, I do, or sincerely hope that the National Assembly in the new composition will support the proposal to vote under item 1, I think that at 6 p.m., whether or not the National Assembly should hold a debate on the sale of the New Maribor Credit Bank, privatisation or possibly, as experts say, it would be much more meaningful to recapitalise it at home. I believe that if there were once individual Members who were in the government, today in the opposition, they would support this idea. I sincerely hope that those Members who once were in opposition and on the big mouth who shouted about how it is necessary to approach the sale of state property in a transparent manner today will do the same. One of those MPs, I can see it stings with my finger. I will tell this Member, I will look at the vote paper and see if he is as principled as he once was. Thanks for once.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u143	Thank you, Mr. Pechet. There is a general debate on the proposal for a decree. Mr. Martin Mikolić has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u144	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government! The completion of the sales programme of State real estate, which is an integral part of the decree, included, among other things, the former military-medical rehabilitation centre of Rome Toplice, worth 180 million tolars. I would like to draw attention to some additional facts, including those already mentioned by the amendment's proposer, that this item be exempted from the sale of real property. On the basis of the invitation to tender of 11.2.2000, Barsus Ljubljana entered into a long-term rental contract with Barsus Ljubljana, with the right to rent with the right of the tenant to early purchase of the treatment facility Rimske Toplice. This pre-contract was concluded on 15.5.2000 for a maximum period of 6 months. It was signed by the then Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Mag. Anton Rop, and the CEO of Barsus. I will not chronologically indicate what was going on because it would be too long a story or it had already been told today. It is essential that Barsus did not fulfil the conditions set out in the signed pre-contract. However, this pre-contract expired only with the agreement on the expiry of the pre-contract signed on 29.7.2004. A week earlier, this is 22.7.2004, and the RS Government has decided to make public the rental of real estate in the context of the complex of the Roman Toplice. The tender of 6.8.2004 referred to a regulation on the acquisition, disposal and operation of real property of the State and the municipality. On 28.9.2004, the Minister without a certificate of mags. Zdenka Kovac signed a contract for renting real estate within the complex of the Roman Spa. Now, some vital facts about the invitation to tender. The invitation to tender did not specify the time of rent and neither did the option of buying real estate. The dispute is a doctrine referred to in Article 1 of the lease agreement that the government will include the property concerned in the sale programme by 1.1.2006 at the latest. At the same time, Article 7 states that after 1.1.2006 and even earlier under the proposed agreement, the lessee may apply the option of buying under the conditions in force at the time of the conclusion of the lease, including the fact that the price of the value referred to in the fifth indent of Article 1 of the contract is 180 million tolars. It follows that, if it signs in this year, in the first months, at the end of the year, until 1.1.2006, the value is always the same. In no way can the possibility of purchasing be included in the lease contract, as this violates the rules applicable to the conclusion of a direct sales contract. Article 52 of the Regulation lays down precisely and fiscally the cases in which the conclusion of a direct contract is permitted. In the present case, in the event of a sale under a lease contract for an apparent breach of the regulation. However, in Article 8 of the Treaty, it refers to the investment of a tenant which obliges the lessor to issue a notary certified land-book permit for the registration of co-owner's rights on immovable property subject to lease, no later than 30 days after the date of the conclusion of the co-owner's share of the lessee. This means that the tenant, which I have no doubt, will take advantage of this opportunity when he also becomes a minimum co-owner and will be able to conclude a direct sale contract with the Republic of Slovenia, which is possible under the real estate regulation of the State and the municipality. Surely it is the same purpose to sign a contract establishing a betting right which, in my view, is invalid, as Mrs Mag is. Zdenka Kovac signed on 3.12.2004 after the new government was appointed. Of course, the biggest question arises about the value of the Roman Spa complex, which was 960 million tolars in 1997, 560 million tolars in 2000, and only 180 million tolars in 2003 and 2004. These are facts that suggest that the government must review all the documentation and activities that have taken place in the past, acquire the true value of the complex and can only be decided on this basis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u145	Thank you, Mr. Mikolitch. The word is given by Mr. Jakob the Presbyterian. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u146	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! As has already been said, our Group will endorse or vote in favour of the proposal for a decree amending and supplementing the decision on the sales programme for state, financial and real property, as the fellow Member has previously pointed out. We expect these procedures to be up-to-date, to be implemented as soon as possible, because some things are really about properties that lie empty, without any benefit from anyone. Of course, according to the procedures envisaged for such things and under which it is possible to also obtain an appropriate price in the open market. As far as the problems mentioned in previous discussions or in the presentation of individual parliamentary groups are concerned, the issue of the sale of the former military-medical rehabilitation centre of Rome Toplice is concerned, and I would like to say the following. Otherwise, we lack a written opinion, a government opinion that would give a thorough review or an assessment of all the procedures that have already been carried out in the previous period. Some of this I have also been able to obtain on the basis of the oral opinion of individuals, including lawyers, etc. I would like to point out that every sale of state or other property is subject to two grave stages. One is the decision to sell certain assets, whether immovable or movable. In this case, it is the adoption of a decree adopted by the national assembly and, on the other hand, the realisation of this sale is by all appropriate procedures such as valuations, tenders, public notices, invitations to tender and the whole procedure, the sale of such or other property. In our parliamentary group, we will vote in favour of an amendment that will delay the sale of this particular property in the Roman Heats for some time, especially for the reason that we give to all those responsible for the sale of this property within the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to explore all the procedures that have been behind and to anticipate how to proceed. Of course, I expect these procedures to be fast enough, and I expect that the government will come very soon when it clears the matter and eventually comes up with a concept, in what way does it intend to realize this thing, which, as we know, is standing in the Roman Warfare untapped, left to decay, I think at least 15 years, if not more. I therefore expect the government to come very quickly, within a month, two, I do not know exactly what time it is possible to prepare this response, at about this time, within a month and two, to come with a proposal to amend this decree, or to propose that this procedure should also be amended in such a way or otherwise, in a way that will bring a new life for a medical centre in Rome and, of course, for a country of Slovenia the most favourable result. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u147	Thank you, Mr. President. The word has Mr. Lucky Friend, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u148	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and respectable colleagues! I would like to describe in a graphic way the last example of the parliamentary initiative we have given. Recently, we addressed the Minister of Defence with the initiative to use the former Kozina barracks for the purpose of building a home for the elderly in the municipality of Kozina. Previously, there was a refugee center in this facility that was functioning smoothly until it was no longer needed. The response to this parliamentary initiative was negative. Negative in this sense that, under all the conditions that will apply to others, the municipality will be allowed to buy this facility, which I consider to be wrong, and that is in fact even the criteria which the government is committed to indemnifying this type of allocation, since in the second case, it is noted that the government, without any payment, has waived property of 1 billion tolars to the municipality, which is, of course, exactly in my opinion, and I support it. However, I strongly believe that in situations requiring social transfers, as well as the actual local needs of the municipalities, either for the construction of apartments or of any other buildings in individual municipalities, the municipalities should have priority over such purchases and, on the most favourable route, should receive this property from the country, which already has no market value. We know that the former authorities have dealt very badly with these objects when we talk about the objects of the former Yugoslav National Army, and in fact these objects today represent living skeletons without any nominal value. The entire army in Kozina is estimated at 5 million tolars. Here we say that the congregation should give 5 million tolars, in the previous case I said that the municipality of Tržič received a billion. That is why I think it would be necessary, after the government's previous decision to sell something, in particular for real estate, to offer this opinion to the municipalities if they showed any interest in including it in their development visions. I think that this amendment proposed by the LDS is worth considering. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u149	Thank you, Mr. Friend. The word has Mr. Tarchoon, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u150	Thank you, Mr. President. I will continue to be the force of the situation where my fellow Member Friend ended up on the case, of course, mainly because of the amendment proposed by the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia and, of course, in support of the vote in favour of this amendment. If I continue with the case, I think some incorrect information has also been given. I myself participated in the activities when it began to talk about the transfer of the land of the former military barracks on Kozina to the municipality of Hrpelje-Kozina. The book value of the property is 5 million. There's no appreciation. Estimated value - since each property must have the amount estimated in changes to the decree, so it is written because the valuation is not - 100 million, it is 18 thousand square meters. The municipality had already expressed an interest in acquiring this property. We know that, unfortunately, a number of years have passed since the former JLA’s real estates in particular fell joyfully and were not transferred by any government to the congregation or placed in another position. So the congregation expressed interest in arranging the home of older citizens on this land. This happened a few years ago when a refugee center was on this land. The refugee centre was abolished, I think in 2004, and therefore this land was transferred to the Ministry of Interior or the Office of Refugees. It was not until last year that this land, when the refugee centre was emptied, was returned to the Ministry of Defence, which is now being sold. As long as the fate of the refugee centre was not known, the municipality could not have had and could not plan what would be on this land, it was disabled, but the talks had taken place, and after leaving this refugee centre, talks with the Ministry of Defence had taken place as soon as possible so that the land could be put into service. As we see, this land is indicated for resale, and we propose that not only this but also the rest of the land be offered first in accordance with Article 21 of the Law on coherent regional development for local communities. If this amendment is not adopted, for the first time, I am not in the clear, which legal situation we will come into, but I think we will come into a situation where the congregations are unequal. My friend mentioned earlier the case of the municipality of Tržič, which, according to my conduct, acquired the properties of former Pek, who thus paid his debt to the country or there is still part of the land, I apologize, and this was free of charge to the congregation for some developmental needs. To be clear, I don't mind, I think it's in an environment where there's been a collapse or a sigh of a large part of such a giant and all the problems they have that it's right. But what I would say is that the congregations are in an equal position, that this is not only possible for some, but for others. That is why we propose this amendment. Some have whispered to me that this is already possible with Article 2, which says that it can be sold to the congregations. However, this is not clear to me because the table already lists the amount by which this will be sold. Nor is this clear on the basis of the response received by a colleague of Friends from Minister Erjavac because he insists on selling it. So now I'm wondering how we're going to approach that. Are we going to ensure the equality of the congregations in the acquisition of certain state property or not? Of course, you will probably answer me that we need to develop some development programs - this was once said - on which we can talk. But in a particular case of development programmes, it was not possible to do so unless the fate of the refugee centre was known at all. Secondly, if our amendment is accepted, I do not think it is correct that all congregations could obtain it and enforce it without criteria. However, it is true that those who express interest and, of course, meet certain conditions are also programmed. But this amendment allows this to happen. But if this is not accepted, then it means that the municipalities will actually come into an unequal position. This raises the question of the legal correctness of such a decision and also the legal challenge of such a decision, because it cannot be the same public law entities in our country in a different situation, some in a privileged, some not. Although I am aware and continue to say that probably those transfers that have been made so far are fully justified and solve certain developmental problems in specific environments. But I don't understand why others wouldn't be able to. If I continue on a specific case, if it persists in the sale. Look, the congregation was kind of burdened by the fact that it had a refugee center. When the refugee centre was emptied - we know what kind of discussions we had in the previous Parliament - certain persons from this refugee centre were granted citizenship. And these people are registered in this same congregation, and these people are mostly due to their age, and so on they went to their homes for the elderly. And the congregation pays for their lodgings, because, sadly, we have received them. And now not only will this congregation not get certain assets, it will have to pay for them, and eventually it will have to support those who were there. Three pen pals in front of others! This, in my opinion, is completely incorrect and requires certain measures to avoid doubting legal correctness and to avoid any unloving complications that would result in a decision not being enforceable after it has been adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u151	Thank you, Mr. Tarchoon. Mr. Jazbec has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Your Honor! I myself will support the proposal for a decree amending and supplementing the Decision on the Sales Programme for State, Financial and Real Property for 2004 and 2005. I would now like to discuss the amendment tabled by my fellow Member, Mr Miro Petek. It is unacceptable to sell and give priority to one of the buyers through a pre-purchase contract or through a lease contract to one of the tenants of the spa of Rome Toplice, which represents a good 23 hectares of land, 12,000 square metres of building plots, 16 buildings, 38,000 square metres of buildings and a park with centuries-old trees. And all this for the fights of 180 million tolars, even though it is estimated to be worth almost 960 million tolars. In the last months of last year, the Public Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for Regional Development has granted potential buyers a first-hand grant of a good 258 million funds, from which buyers could, in other words, settle their purchases and spend money on the renovation of these facilities. The public fund subsequently annulled this decision, issued a new decision and increased this amount to around 300 million tolars, which puts buyers in a significantly better position. And that with a 20-year repayment period. Roman Toplice as a place is somehow a victim of the independence of Slovenia, because in the place of the Roman Toplice, the only thing that has happened is the only objects that have brought jobs for more than 12 years. People who once worked in the spa of Rome’s Toplice are now retired or waiting for work or driving to distant Celje, which also lacks adequate jobs. The facilities in the Roman Heats, however, fail from day to day and give a clarinet the appearance of the place, so the people in the Roman Heats are really looking forward to when the country will essentially sell their facilities and thus enable the development of the place to be redeveloped. It should also be pointed out here that the entire complex of the Rimske Toplice health resort was, under the old legislation, part of the so-called military area and was not introduced into all the planning documents. Therefore, it is assumed that the contract concluded on 3.12.2004 is also legally valid, it is impossible for a new investor and buyer to start renovations at all, because it is necessary, in fact, by the municipality of Laško, to arrange planning documents and thus to allow for the restoration of these facilities. Since it seems to me that by such a contract and when it is proposed that this property be essentially resold for fighting 180 million, both the State and the specifically affected inhabitants of the Roman Toplice are harmed, and since it is not possible for the investor to settle something special in this area this year, I will also support Mr Mir Petk's amendment and allow - and at the same time I expect - that the government will, within the next months following a rapid procedure, determine what will be done with the existing contract and take appropriate action and in the shortest process prepare the revitalisation of existing or premises of the treatment centre of the Roman Toplice and give it to sell or manage someone who will also manage it in an economic manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u153	Thank you, Mr. Jazbec. Mr. Magg has the word. Milan Squeakle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u154	Mr President, Members of Parliament, good afternoon. I would, of course, like to say, with regard to the decision or motion for a decision amending and supplementing the decision on the sale programme of state and real property, that, in our opinion, it goes according to the content and, above all, on time - at a time when it is proposed - an inadequately prepared decision. The Public Finance Act clearly sets out how this decree is being prepared and can also be amended in the course of the implementation of the State budget. However, since 2005, we have a government that has been predicting since its launch on 3 December that it will change the state budget in order to prepare a rebalancing, to align this state budget balance with the coalition contract, with the coalition objectives and the same government when it prepares or at least says that it is preparing, such a rebalancing, it sends to the National Assembly a decree that we do not think is clear whether, for the first time, it is consistent with the government's direction in the framework of the principle management of public finances or not. The Minister of Finance spoke yesterday about doing everything he could to make the 2005 budget nominally lower for, according to newspapers, about 15 to 20 billion. In the ruling before us and for which you have expressed the Group's willingness to support it in the main - with the exception of one of the indents - I will also talk about it later - and in particular the Government of the Republic of Slovenia allows the ministries to increase the required volume or possible extent of consumption on their departments by approximately 2.3, 2.1 billion tolars, depending on whether these Roman Toplices will be included in the decree or not. Of course, this is not in line with what the Minister of Finance has said so far. Therefore, we do not think it appropriate to adopt a decree allowing ministries to sell more assets, and then this property is also immediately spent on the basis of a decree and other legislation, but it would be necessary to reduce the rebalancing or deficit by 2.1 billion, which will undoubtedly come from the sale of assets. We believe that, as long as the government is serious about managing public finances in Slovenia, it would be right to draft such a decree at the time of the preparation of the rebalancing. Why? Ministries in Slovenia are in a different position. Some have some assets, we call them in this case, say the Ministry of Defence, the property of the former Yugoslav People's Army, but some don't have that property. And once the Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the individual coalition parties have identified the potential for consumption in 2005, this consumption will also vary according to how much of this property is in individual resources. It would, of course, be right to conduct a real budgetary discussion, where, as the Minister of Finance said yesterday, it would be necessary to tighten up the ministry's 15 to 20 billion programmes, also taking into account how many individual ministries can obtain additional resources from the sale of assets. However, ministers, especially in this case the Ministry of Public Administration, which has somehow become responsible for these issues, because the Joint Services Service has agreed to a new government organisation under the Ministry of Public Administration, are passing this decree through the Minister of Finance. We regret in the Liberal Democracy that there is no key responsible representative of the Ministry of Finance here, either the Minister or the Secretary of State, because, of course, they might be able to hear from their mouths what they actually intend to do, how they will make the budget, the draft amendments to the budget of the rebalancing, as it is called, take into account the fact that the various resources are in different situations. That is why, of course, we believe that the proposal itself comes at the wrong time or at the wrong time. It would be more appropriate, as has already been the case, to discuss how much additional resources are needed by the Minister in order to take this into account. Now, we have a situation here, depending on what kind of proposal was adopted at what time, we have an increase in the capacity on individual resources to increase spending per unit. Interestingly, the Ministry of Defence has now decided, we do not know which needs - whether they need more money to invest in weapons or need more money to cover the costs of basic development programmes, so that, contrary to previous activities, where real property has been put into use by local communities, if possible, it will place at the very least a very large amount, as indicated here, of barracks and other objects in nature, into the actual property sales programme itself. It is interesting that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, at the time that we adopted the European Constitution on 1 February, and this European Constitution will mean, among other things, that we will have at least 24 other embassies in Washington besides the Embassy of the Republic of Slovenia where Slovenians, Slovenians, could seek consular services, of course, decided there at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to sell the old residence and restore the old residence, of course in a successful residence, and Slovenia will have a few times more "business" at Washington's location. [[in pomegranates]] the space, as was the case at the time we gained our independence or when we were not yet members of the European Union and were Slovenians and Slovenians in Washington only depend on consular services of the Embassy of the Republic of Slovenia. I could also list individual elements of this programme, but obviously the decision of the ruling coalition, at least as far as you have explained, is different, so allow me to comment on the proposed two amendments in the end. First, with regard to the amendment to exclude from the sale of the real estate of the Roman Spas. See, if you would obviously take into account our proposal, which was proposed on the committee or on the Committee on Finance to stop the debate, to hold this debate in the government at the time of the preparation of the budget rebalancing, then there would be no need to rush and because of some problem, as we see it or as pointed out by some opponents seeking a final solution for the Roman Heats, we are now removing the Roman Heats quickly from the ruling itself. The Roman Spas are known to be a problem, not just a problem dealt with by the former government. Some of the previous governments have dealt with this, some of the previous coalition partners have dealt with it, and we hope that, regardless of whether you accept this amendment today, the ruling coalition will do its utmost to resolve this problem of the Romans' Toplice. With regard to the amendment we have proposed, however, we believe that this is minimally necessary in order to accept the amendment, that the RS government nevertheless calls on municipalities to express whether they have an interest in the transfer of state property to ownership and property and that these assets are used for development purposes. In this way, you will ensure that the type of facilities that would otherwise end up in some will be named by the hands of intermediaries, find the right place and real use for development purposes and thus allow at least in this sense this decision on the sale of real property to be more appropriate than it is now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u155	Thank you, Mr. Squeakle. Mr. Kumer has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u156	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues. I would like once again to draw attention to the opinion of the Group of Members and, of course, my own opinion that this motion for a decree is poorly prepared. If it is already procedural to give the National Assembly a green light and only then to the government or the competent ministry to give individual elements to the evaluation and then to the public auction, it would be at least necessary, due to hygiene, to explain in this list what will be sold, to identify who in the government, ministry or any service has assessed and identified as previously mentioned by the government representative. Whoever has estimated that an object, a certain property, a certain object is not commercially necessary; secondly, that it is irrational due to budgetary material assets, state resources, and thirdly that an object is no longer usable. So it has to be sold out. None of this is in this explanation! This is not related to this and could be indicated in this explanation for individual positions or in general for individual positions. And secondly, there are procedures to which you are speaking, of course. But I will be even more specific, and I will give an example from the past, because I mentioned the holiday facility in Daila earlier. Even three or four years ago, the procedure was followed, as it did, by a Green Light Assembly, and a valuation was made and the facility was sold by 10% more value than it was estimated by professional sworn valueholders. This same facility, which is 66 square metres in the largest part, was at the time - but I was able to take a look at the value of between €180 000 and €200,000, and was sold in 2001 for €41 000. It is said that the difference is fourfold in all procedures and logistics that have run. I would like to know how there could have been a difference between EUR 200,000, which was some average market value that the government or the seller sold for some more than EUR 13 million and EUR 40 000. One more time. The time is two, three months, as you promise, until the rebalancing; nothing will be missed, and I think our proposal, which we make, has been put into place so that this decision with these things will be taken into account in the preparation of the balance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u157	Thank you, Mr. Kumer. A representative of the government, Mr Perenič, also has the floor. Can I help you? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u158	If I may just have a few brief explanations. Clearly, we all agree on the fact that it does not make sense that the same procedures are prescribed for both high and low values. With regard to certain indications that this is already being decided upon. If so, then these contracts are, of course, invalid because they were concluded contrary to the provisions of the applicable law. I don't know any of those cases. If you want to introduce me to the specifics, we can check it out. However, if something has actually been sold before the National Assembly has given its consent, such a contract is illegal and binding and the real law code are clear on the consequences if something is concluded contrary to the law. The purpose of the purchase. For the time being, article 80 of the Public Finance Act provides for strict intent on purchases, making it difficult to spend them for something else or impossible because they would be contrary to the law. Perhaps a little longer clarifications mainly regarding these holiday facilities. We have had a social dialogue and we have met with the unions on 28.2.2005. We explained to them - then we also apologized to them that we had not previously included them in the preparation of this decree - we reviewed these holiday facilities, we discussed a broader topic on holiday capacities, and the unions supported our decisions. Among other things, it is an object that the Finance Officer also mentioned how we claim to be inappropriate and someone is using it. The facility is in fact violently displaced, the Republic of Slovenia has shut down electricity, water and so on. The unions agreed. We have also reviewed and found that the annual service of the common services obtains around 55 million tolars by managing these holiday facilities, which are fully reinvested and provides 80.65% of the average employment in the summer and winter season. All trade unions representing civil servants were involved. We have also published public news about this. It is true, however, that there was some confusion in the newspapers because I think that some representatives had summarized previous statements before we met and aligned with them. Now about the capacity in Dailah you're talking about so many years ago. Now, after exactly the same procedures, of course, it didn't work. Firstly, since the regulation governing this was re-adopted in 2003, that is, if it was sold four or five years ago. And secondly, as I am aware, this was not sold by the government, but by the then paying agency, so the procedures were slightly different. But I cannot comment any more, because I am really not familiar with the case and it is a long time ago. We also believe that the 80.b section of the Public Finance Act already allows this transfer of property to the municipalities. 80.b., for it is possible to travel - there is the principle of repayment and 80.b allows for other cases. And one such case is in accordance with a specific law, which is the law on coherent regional development. Perhaps only information that our ministry has started with intensive preparation for the establishment of a clear real estate record and then we will continue with other assets, so that we can get a clear picture and, of course, we can decide later and also prepare a methodology, in what way and how to assess this property. With regard to these proposals, the Ministry's justifications, and so on, are these two files that we have with us, these are the proposals of individual bodies. Some authorities have been very detailed, and they have also very clearly defined everything for individual cars, some less detailed, but in any case it was not only a naked classification, but also an economic explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u159	Thank you, Mr. Perenich. This concludes the general debate on the proposal for a decree. We are moving on to the debate on the points and amendments tabled, which will be guided by the review of the amendments of 21.3.2005. In doing so, I remind you that you were given an amendment to the 3rd item, namely the amendment of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. First of all, I am opening the debate on Point 2 and the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group. Who wants a word? Juice, Janc, anyone else? Pike. Here you go, Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u160	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! We will, as has already been said, support this amendment, which is only from this fact, because on 3 December 2004 the building rights treaty was signed and we want the government to know and to see what it actually stands for, just for that reason. But, of course, as far as this property is concerned, it can happen that, unless we sell it soon, it will have to be added to it if we want to actually get these objects into some kind of careful management. Just one more sentence, I would like to remind you that the Ljutomer Congregation has been selling the old school at Mali Sunday for years, last of all for just 1 tolar, I don't know if it's sold today or not, I don't think it's still there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u161	Thank you. Mr. Sok, please hold on to the time available. Here you go, Mr. Janc.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u162	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! To me this amendment, of course, I will say, as I have read the material on this story, which is very long and quite burdensome, I am interested in the first place in the position of the government towards this amendment. That's the first one. Secondly, can the government, whether we accept the amendment or not, continue this sale in accordance with its powers? Is this amendment urgently needed? 'Cause I'd like to ask for it because he already told his buddy in front of me. It's a story, almost 15 years old. A ghastly view of this area, which is in the Roman Toplices, and so many stories that have taken place at this time that the object has collapsed, that the object will no longer be worth anything, maybe just the land. It is therefore unacceptable to postpone this problem for an indefinite period of time, but at the same time as the Group of Members, I support that this story in the way that it was presented here - whether it is correct or not, I do not know, but I have read it, that it may be so, that it may be malicious, I do not know, but I think that the Government here must have some clear view of this object, of this project. After all, this Slovenian shame is self-sacrifice in our environment and I would like to see it resolved as soon as possible, of course, by a procedure that is democratic, which is correct and, of course, to give into the hands of someone who can manage it and will make it out of this facility what the people of this valley or this place certainly expect. I'm asking for an answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u163	Thank you, Mr. Janz. Mr. Pike has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u164	Thank you for your word. Following the government's proposal to sell the Roman Spas, among other things, this year we were informed by the citizens that there was something wrong with this sale. I myself carefully reviewed the documentation available to me and found that the lease was concluded between the previous government of the Republic of Slovenia and the tenant of the Medical and Rehabilitation Centre d.o.o. of 28.9.2004 it shall have a provisional or optional right for the tenant, i.e. only for SIT 180 million. The preliminary valuation of assets by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia was SIT 958 million, excluding the park areas listed in this Treaty. According to my data, the valuation took place without a government decision and therefore the price of SIT 180 million is at issue and thus the contract. That something is wrong, it already says the ratio of valuations that are in the ratio of more than 1:5 without park areas, which are about 22 hectares. I have a lease on the table, but it has elements of a sales contract. A contract establishing the building right has also been concluded. In all this, we ask ourselves about the purpose of concluding this Treaty. The fact is that the previous government has not done much for the Roman Toplice, since it has not properly addressed this problem throughout its rule. It is also true that the people of the land want the best possible solutions to this disgrace. However, I cannot agree to the property which, I think, has elements of corruption. The exemption of the spa of the Roman Spa from sale does not mean that the current government will passively monitor developments. The government will take some time to study the problem and take good care of a solution that will benefit the country and the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u165	Thank you, Mr. Pike. Mr. Anderlich has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u166	In the previous mandate and also in the previous one, we have been asking a lot of questions about whether it is right for the National Assembly to deal with this issue in this way and whether it is even right for it to adopt a decision on the State property disposal programme. It was adopted by an amendment forced in the National Assembly that such matters should be decided in the National Assembly and precisely because of this discussion, which was, before a mere sovereign claim to be elements of corruption, this government - the current government, not the previous one - put it on the list, the same Members say that these are elements of corruption and I cannot vote on such an amendment as well as on the basic text. So, I'm here as a broker, assessing whether it's 180 million, or 182, or 155 million, the right price for something that's been 10, 12 years, 13 years is not in the function that it should be in. It's absolutely wrong. The government, I'm sorry, I'm not interfering with yours, the government is the custodian of state property on our behalf, on behalf of the National Assembly, on behalf of these authorities. And that's what he's responsible for. If it is her responsibility to discuss the sale of real deposits in individual companies, in banks and so on, if she cares about all other things, it is likely that it is also right to assess and say, this and this and this and I will be in a certain year as part of a surplus, even many times the property that burdens the country. If I'm right informed, for decades some people have been getting paid, and they're home, they're abstaining, and some things are going to shit. And under the conditions under which something has been tried in recent years, obviously it could not be done. And it's really absurd that we accept - in the past, in the last decree, we've even adopted a fortune worth 500 tolars. Do you feel that it is appropriate to underestimate the national council’s decision on every 500 - tolar case that is 20 years of age, so to speak, a written-off basic asset or anything? No! No! I'm in favour of the government having authority to do these things. In accordance with the Public Finance Act, a report or programme, a proposal for the sale of assets, which then also consists of a balance sheet of the budget and, of course, the ministry manages it. And that's why, of course, I'm really embarrassed. I remember the discussion about Villa Bled. I also recall discussions about some other objects or items in the list of sales of state property. But really, on the basis of some letter or on the basis of some suggestion I got from somewhere, I can't vote for or against. I am not in favour of this in the National Assembly to assess whether any asset is right or wrong. The government has the authority to execute them. And I will be first if you propose to change the way decisions are made on the sale of state, financial and real property - and if anything is important, it is important that all these acts come in parallel, both budget or rebalancing, both the law on the implementation of the budget and the list of sales of real or financial assets of the country. And this case is typical. This case is typical of how we can't actually negotiate here, whether it's right or wrong. I received many letters in the previous term, as well as in the current - the same letters from those same people. But despite all that, the government probably thought this was the best thing for this case. Even if "our government" is not in quotations - but from this point of view, I do not look at this, ours, yours, but how in my name, on behalf of citizens and citizens, manages our property. And if this assessment is the right one, then let this move go forward, but not that I'm confirming this case for 180 million, or that I think there's one item on the list for 1,000 tolars. Why, I'm asking you? And I don't think this is the work of the National Assembly. I am in favour of agreeing that the government will come up with a proposal or that when this discussion is again being held to determine whether it is 100 million, whether it is 500 million, whether it is real property, whether it is financial assets or financial investments in companies or banks, etc. - let's say that banks, like they sell, last fax, I don't think one fax is in there or two, for 1,000 tolars, can't be sold in the same way. But unfortunately, we have such a regulation, which has been amended and completely formed in the framework, in the text of the Public Finance Act with the amendment that we made in the National Assembly. And as I said: I support all these things going parallel and expect something else in the balance. After all, if the decision is to be amended in this case, it would probably be necessary to say why these things are so urgent to be sold and why it is not reported, why some things have been on the list for years and years and never come to the sale of certain, say, shares of companies owned by the state. Mr Valič probably knows and the Secretary of State has probably also asked about it. And why are we doing this and doing it in the National Assembly? In the end, if I vote in favour of the government, I will vote in favour of corruption, as someone said, and I think it is right for the government to discuss it. But if I vote for the amendment, I will be an honest citizen who I have protected state property from thieves. This way of working is in my opinion - and these same words will be found from two or three years ago in magnetograms - such a way of working the National Assembly is inappropriate to me. So, unfortunately, I can't vote on this amendment, not against it, but that's how I feel about it.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u167	Thank you, Mr. Anderlich. Mr. Rupar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u168	Thank you, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! He explained a few things first. At the end of last year, the Municipality of Tržič received 1.1 billion tolar assets through intermediaries named here by the former SRD and the Ministry of Economy by the company Peco. This assessment of this property was made at the time of the Prime Minister Dr. Rop and Minister Petrinova. But this property was even more mutilated and destroyed than the properties of the Roman Toplice, and it was estimated at 1.1 billion tolars! The purpose of the project was not to get this property from the municipality, but to save the Pekko factory and 1,100 jobs. This was the goal of this action, and the property we received was also a heavy burden for the congregation, believe me. What to do with 35,000 square meters of abandoned and neglected production areas is one congregation! Please! In fact, on the basis of the very good programmes that we have put together so that we can move this matter forward and not sell it for certain purposes, as the previous and current government has agreed with these projects. Another thing that bothers me. In the contracts, some of you have read them, we have heard that this tenant or this company with these Roman Heats can at some point also redeem it at the same price and become the owner. The Municipality of Tržič can never sell this property. It shall remain as part of the municipality’s infrastructure and in all cases, if both are already compared. I agree that we are working by law and that these laws are completely the same for all and no differences. I also wanted to say about this property. I also strongly agree that, in fact, this National Assembly, to deal with assets of some value, let's say under one million, but then the mayors would be very pleased if we could also sell the property of the municipalities just like that, without the consent of the municipal council. I personally would be very pleased, but this, excuse me, in this law and in this country is not allowed because we have different laws and we must also consider them for assets worth 0.1 tolar or even less. But these are facts, and these are laws, and these things must be taken into account, and this national assembly must also deal with such sales as is enshrined in the law. Personally, forgive me, even as my councillors in the congregation of Tržič, I do not give any authority in this national assembly, nor do I give any authority to the government under the point that it sells itself, which it likes, and for as long as it pleases it. It's up to the citizens. And we are representatives of citizens, and the government is the one who will do what this National Assembly will give her as a task to do, and this can also be the sale of property. And I think I'm right in this respect, no one has the right to own the property and sell it, transform it, broadcast it if it's not his property. And the government does not own this property, this property is owned by this national assembly or the state that is behind us, and that is the correct definition. And in the end. I will also support this proposal, although on the other hand I also think that this government will certainly have to do something about these objects for the benefit of the congregations. However, I say again, under the same conditions that they will not sell, distribute and make profits, or whatever some imagine. Strictly by law! That, of course, the congregations prepare such quality and good programs that any government will see the purpose of giving such assets, whatever the value, to these local communities or to their administrators. Again, these are the conditions which, as I heard it today, you did not state. I agree that there is a warlord who is decomposing, which is worthless, into the local community, but it has to prepare the necessary materials necessary for someone to see that it makes sense. But if that is not the case, of course the government will not give it to anyone, because then as a privateer I am very interested in any property, because if that building is worthless, the land will be worth something; speculation as much as you want. So trust her, this government, that this is the right thing to do. The laws in force must be respected even if someone does not like it, but so it will be for now. However, if someone estimates that there is something different to be done, this national assembly, as far as I know, is waiting with open deadlines for amendments to the laws in this area as well. Then things will turn out so much better than they are now in the last 12 years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u169	Thank you, Mr. Rupar. Mr. Anderlich, did you raise your hand for the replica? [[Back-up advertising.]] If you'll excuse me, it's Mr. Han's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u170	Thank you so much for saying that. I did not intend to come forward today, but I must, in view of the fact that the SDS Group has tabled an amendment to remove the sale of the treatment facility of Rome Toplice from this list, which I think I am coming from the area or from Radeč, to the health centre and to all these things that are going on around the resort, recklessly and unwisely. At that time, I called some phone numbers because I don't know the matter well enough myself. However, I would say that the problem of revitalisation of the spa of Rome Toplice has been drawing ever since the independence of Slovenia. There have been several attempts, but never before has the problem been solved. In September 2004, on the basis of the previous invitation to tender for rent between the Government of Slovenia and Barsus, a lease contract was concluded as a representative of the consortium, including the current value of the buildings and the right of tenants to buy back the buildings at the time of the previous deposit into the renovation of the facilities after a certain period of time. The tenants also provided a bank guarantee for the good implementation of the entire project. And I think, if the National Assembly decides not to sell off this property, it can happen that the tenants will withdraw from the contract, which will put the recovery of the spa of Rome's Toplice back on track a few years ago. The entire matter is brought to the attention of the Ministry of Economy in the current government. For information, investors in this spa of the Roman Toplice are thus insurance company Triglav, Union, Mobile, KAD, SOD, New Bank of Maribor, so I am surprised by this act. Moreover, given that government representatives are here, I would like, at least personally, to hear the clear position of the government on why this amendment has taken place. Since I have spoken with representatives of the local community, the mayor of the municipality of Laško and some investors, I will not support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u171	Mr. Anderlich, would you like to discuss it? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u172	It would probably be more of a replica, but because I gave up hope that the previous debater could understand any debate as well-intentioned, but everywhere he sees conspiracy and try to attribute and prove something contrary. But because there was so much confusion in these references: for the first time, the National Assembly is not the custodian of state property. The National Assembly is the legislator and adopts regulations and is not the custodian of state property. The National Assembly does not appear anywhere as a representative of the owner, namely in the various actual inputs where the country has them, but is always, on behalf of the State, the government that manages them. But far from agreeing that the National Assembly should discuss and decide whether the government, on behalf of this country, can resell the amortised property that could be written off in one way or another. Is this really a legislator thing? In my firm belief and in the constitutional order that we have in this country, there is no. And if we have an unreal arrangement created by a web of circumstances in the past - I myself explained when this occurred and it proved to be the course of annual or single or double treatment of this decision, that this way is unreal, non-life. I am absolutely for mayors or anyone on behalf of the municipality to sell off what is amortized, which they no longer need, which they are burdened with. After all, we have cars here after 15, 20 years, please! Are people going to drive these cars now because the government can't replace them with new ones or I don't know what? Are they going to wait until the National Assembly comes to order, I don't know, in a month, two, three, five, so that some matter for a couple hundred grand can be sold, disposed of, restored, whatever it is that we have some arrangements anyway. [[...]] We have a prescribed amortisation, we even have a requirement that we have to get out of traffic things that are older. But I'm saying, I've given up hope that someone could take this discussion on purpose. However, believe me, I am as embarrassed as I have been in the previous or previous situation as I am to decide things for which I do not have enough behavior and which is not really our job. And that's why I hope there won't be any controversy on this subject.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u173	I ask the Prime Minister, Mr Perenić, whether he wants to speak on some of the questions that have been raised. Unfortunately, you only have a few seconds more than half a minute. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u174	I'll be there real quick. The government supports the amendment. In the decree, the Roman Spas, if I may say very quickly, were listed before we were informed, at least in our ministry, of this matter. Since the treaty is very strange that I can't explain to you as a lawyer, there the government commits itself to being a state council in a decree of property - how can you commit yourself to the treaty, what Members will vote on - and so on. There are a lot of problems, so there is a review of this and if it comes to finding that anything will have to be changed in the contract, the government is at a significantly better negotiating point because of this [[....]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] It's not in the decree.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u175	You were right, because we'd give you a few more minutes. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Squeakle, please. We're still at Point 2 and the SDS amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u176	I will comment on what the government representative said. I would be very interested in the question, and Mr Perenič spoke on behalf of the government, the position of the Minister for Regional Development. As far as I am aware, it was precisely the government's service for structural policy and regional development that was the one that was the carrier of this project for a number of reasons: because it was a very specific issue where it was trying to solve the problem that without finding an investor willing to invest in it some of its own resources, which, as far as we know, must also take the guarantee and, of course, it is in good faith that the government will do what is possible, and I suppose that the contract says that the government will propose such a provision in accordance with positive legislation and it has done so. Of course, today we are deciding whether to support or not this amendment, whether the project of the Roman Spas will go forward. This is a political decision and this is probably what the investor took the risk with. It is interesting that, of course, because of this, the investor had to obtain a guarantee, a bank guarantee, and it is likely that someone, probably the same government, who has now said that they agree to prevent the investor from making this investment, will also sit on this guarantee and call on the creditors to pay this guarantee. I must say, it would be in the ruling coalition to consider two. First of all, the government sent this document to the National Assembly. And I, as my colleague said, assume that when a document is sent to the National Assembly, the government is serious. You have two files of material, I assume there is also a letter from the competent minister, the competent minister, the competent service, which is authentic, which has signatures. And on that basis, you suggested it. I suggest you show us a letter that says the secretary agrees that this is going out of order. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] No, no! [[...]] Mr Prime Minister said what the Government's position was. He said that the government's position to support the amendment is my apologies, but you know, the government usually decides at the meetings, the government decides on the amendments and sets out its views on the amendment at the work of the working bodies and also informs about it. That's why I'm saying if there's any documentation that says it should be put into a decree, I'm wondering if there's any record that it's not in the decree. And then it assumes, Mr Perenič here takes, I would say, our responsibility to the government as a whole, and in particular the responsibility for the project. That's what this is about! We proposed at the outset, if you remember, even on the Committee on Finance I said that we should stop the debate on this decision and perhaps this would be the best thing at this point: to stop the debate on the decision, of course, to do everything necessary to ensure that this decision has all the formal basis, be linked to the budget, but not to now, on the basis of some anonymities, some letters from Members, I would say, amendments and decide whether that matter is worth 180 million or not. As a national assembly, we are now putting ourselves in the role of a third negotiator or an observer of the movements that have taken place. That is why I think this thought, and that is why I have also come to my attention, or this opinion by a government representative very bravely, and I would like you to back him up with evidence, if you can't back him up with evidence, and then I suggest that the Presidents, if it is procedurally possible to avoid doing any harm to the Roman Toplice project, simply stop the debate on this proposal and return to this decision when conditions are in place. And the balance, the preparation of the balance and the adoption of the budget balance is the best time to do so. I have already said, if not the other, that the Minister of Finance will know with what potential savings can be counted on individual resources, because, of course, the individual resources receive this decision, based on today's decision, 2.1 billion more opportunities for spending in the state budget. All these reasons have been clearly defined by the Public Finance Act that when a budget is drawn up, a programme for the sale of financial and real property is also being prepared, which is then an integral part of the corresponding expenditure per department, and now we have one with the structure of the use of the unconnected decision. Gentlemen, look, we have already said earlier that it would be wrong not to accept this decree at all, but of course we will vote on this if the President does not interrupt, because we do not believe that it is appropriate to deal without written documents here or have heard any government opinion saying that it is necessary to exclude the Roman Spas from the real estate sales programme in 2005. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u177	Mr Perenič, I regret to tell you that you no longer have time for answers, but it is a habit that when the time passes for the government, questions are suppressed, rather than rhetorical, to say no, provocative. Mrs. Pecanova has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u178	I would repeat just one sentence from colleague Han before me, suggesting that the government and not the secretary of state from the Ministry [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u179	Please, be quiet. Only Mrs. Pecanova has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u180	However, the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Public Administration shall indicate whether this amendment is accepted or not. [[...]] I think that since the meeting will continue tomorrow and Tuesday, it would be prudent, in particular, to implement the plans that this government has apparently adopted already, because it has introduced the sale of this facility or the spa of the Roman Toplice into the sales programme - it has certainly verified the matter. I would also point out once again that the text we all received, as it all appears, or the vast majority of the Members and Members who prepared it, Mr Hubert Ankerc, Simona Kranjčan and Antonija Marinček, the highly educated people, wrote the text without knowing the whole project. They did not know that Barsus did indeed get into the lease of the Roman Toplice in 2000, but that by setting up a consortium in which companies, 100% of which are also owned by the State - the Slovenian Compensation Company, the Capital Company and 65% of the owner of Mobilell through Telekom, were involved, not to mention the insurance company, which is also the majority owner, but also in the New Credit Bank of Maribor, which is also, as far as I know, the vast majority owner - it is said that the state has involved financial investment in this project of such a company, its companies, that it wanted to regulate the Romanske Toplice in such a way that they would act as it should be, and that they would later make a profit. And since financial investors are in her possession, it means that indirectly the Roman Spas will be in her possession at the end, even if they are bought by the so-called MRC - medical rehabilitation center. This is supposed to be this consortium. Barsus, as it all appears - this is probably business secrecy, but given that everything is allowed in this National Assembly in one way or another - as everything seems to be, it will withdraw or withdraw from this consortium. So all these words that are here, I must say unverified and written in such a way that they cannot be verified, have misled you into making such an amendment. I therefore advise you, colleagues and colleagues from the Slovenian Democratic Party, to ask your government members what they really think about this. I don't think you checked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u181	Thank you, Mrs. Pecans. Mr Mikulič has reported several times, but unfortunately, the time of New Slovenia has already been going on. Passing or closing Do you want to discuss? [[...]] Here you go, Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u182	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Now, of course, if you allow, we will eventually leave a few minutes of time for the government to respond, but above all I would suggest that the government understands my thinking rhetorically, but as a serious consideration in the way the government accepts the amendments of Members. President, I would expect you to be the president of the entire National Assembly and not just the President of the ruling coalition, and I ask that you do not judge Members so that you do not qualify what individual Members want to say. I have proposed and asked the government, if possible, and we will work alone in the end to have some time left so that the government can answer whether this is also the opinion of the Minister for Regional Development. I wanted to make a call after you have qualified the opinion and debate of individual Members in this way. This is too important a matter, and on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy we have identified, and the legislative and legal services of this National Assembly have found that the decree in many ways is inappropriate. Above all, it is not clear why the money will be spent. And it's really not clear. After you, as a government, as a ruling coalition, together with you, obviously, depending on how you discuss or conduct the meeting, you have decided to bring this through the National Assembly in any way at this meeting, we remind you of the problems, and you view this as rhetorical debate. I would like to see if it could be possible further, once we have some time to share, to give some time to the government to obtain the Minister's opinion in the meantime, perhaps the opinion of the Minister of Finance, because some Secretary of State here is actually explaining what will actually be the issue of one important regional issue. Fellow Members of Parliament and Members living near the Roman Toplice and those who know this problem will probably agree with me that it would be good to give this location, if possible, to an investor free of charge, and this should bring new development, because if it were possible to profit from this, gentlemen, all contracts are properly designed in this respect, if it were possible to take something out of this, of course, would have done so already called the former SDK or the paying agency. I think it is irresponsible that, on the one hand, we have an amendment on the one hand, based on some half of the anonymity, that we have the insinuation here, that it is a corrupt act and that we have here a government opinion that has not been formally obtained, but we do not hear the opinion of the Minister for Finance, the Minister for Regional Development, and then all of this together the President of the National Assembly makes it seem to be understood as a rhetorical opinion of the Member of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u183	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[No, no, ……]] I conclude the debate on Point 2 and the SDS Amendment on Point 2. We are moving on to the debate on the 3rd item and on the amendment of the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club. Once again, I warn you that you have received the amended amendment and we are discussing it. Anybody want to talk? If not, then I'm closing the debate. The amendments and the decree will be decided today in the framework of the vote in half an hour, in accordance with the meeting's timetable, at 4:30 p.m. I interrupt this agenda item and interrupt the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 4:30 p.m. The point has been interrupted and the session has been suspended. Mr. Squeakl, you will be able to make a procedural proposal as the meeting continues.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u184	Your Honor! We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Procedural? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u185	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I have a procedural request or a proposal. I am protesting the conduct and conduct of the meeting this morning, when Vice-President Saša Peca held the meeting, protesting his unfair and unacceptable conduct, for which I request an apology. The magnetogram shows that I was severely attacked and that my position was also hampered when I represented the position of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia in the consideration of the law on same-sex partnerships. The Vice-President has informed me that I am threatening Members of Parliament and Members. At the same time, he also told me that the next time I would afford such a kick or malicious fact, I quote, he said, "I will drive you off the phone." In the National Assembly, I have not yet seen the President push from the speakers and threaten Members and Members in their implementation. I therefore request that the Vice-President be excused for such unacceptable conduct and conduct of the meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u186	Thank you very much. Madam Member, Vice-President Sašo Peca has heard this, although this was not a procedural proposal, and he also wants a word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u187	Your Honors are here! My words will be addressed to all of you. If you're asking me to apologize for respecting the rules of procedure, then of course you're wrong about that. However, it is true that I objected to the adoption of this Rules of Procedure, and I think that this was in the previous term. Mrs Shirca, you are one of those who supported this rule of procedure, which limits the time of discussion. You've reached this request in the Liberal Democracy and I think there's still a lot of other parties. I believe that the National Assembly can work properly if we also adhere to and respect Members of the Rules of Procedure. You've been out of time for two minutes. I think this is unacceptable, and I believe this is the first time in this term that someone has allowed himself to exceed the time available to him for two minutes. You knew, according to my information, four days earlier how many minutes you have at your disposal, so from this place please honestly try to read in your office a few times, if the time period is causing problems, to come within the time available. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u188	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The Rules of Procedure do not allow me to continue this debate, so I conclude this debate. We are moving on to the end of the 1st item of the agenda - questions from Members and Members. Following a proposal from Mr Saš Pečet, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next regular meeting on the response of the Slovenian Prime Minister Janez Janša to Saš Pečet's question on the concept of privatisation of the New Credit Bank Maribor. Anybody want to explain their voice? First, on behalf of the Group of Members, Mr Sok, Mr Pece. Anyone else? On behalf of the Group of Members, Mr Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u189	Thank you so much for saying that. Just for a little while. We understand the proposal made by Ambassador Pečet, unfortunately, today our Group of Members cannot support this proposal, but we will be pleased to support such a proposal once the Government has prepared a proposal to privatise the New Credit Bank of Maribor and more facts are known about this issue. At this point, however, such a debate seems premature. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u190	Thank you very much. Mr. Pache, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u191	The Government of the Republic of Slovenia already agreed in 1994 with the legal regime governing the privatisation of the financial sector in the form of law. This happened at an extraordinary meeting where the National Assembly dealt with the constitutional law. At that time, a decision was also taken on the basis of the desire of the current Minister of Finance. This decision was supported by the National Assembly in the form of two arguments or two bases in one decision. Firstly, for the privatisation of the banking sector, among which they were included, at least the rehabilitation took place at the expense of Nova Ljubljanska Banka and New Credit Bank Maribor on the basis of the law. Secondly, citizens and citizens will also be involved at the time of privatisation. I want to say that the privatisation of the New Ljubljana Bank has taken place outside the legislative branch of government. We all know the consequences of this kind of privatisation and the Belgian NCB's access to the financial system of the Republic of Slovenia did not bring about those desired effects, as we promised them, or better said, as promised by the current government. My purpose is only that the legislative branch of the authorities is familiar with privatisation procedures, and we all know that these procedures have already begun with a reference to an extraordinary assembly at which they requested the replacement of the Supervisory Committee. The fact is, at this point, at least the government in the finance market in Slovenia is a huge void, where no one knows how things are going to go. And I say it's a shame for the National Assembly to let go of such a very important topic as the privatisation of banks. I was talking, not only about the all-Slovenian significance of this kind of debate, but also by my assessment, which, of course, is of primary importance to me, for the development of the part of Slovenia that is behind the central place, it is the municipality of Ljubljana. I call once again on the fulfilment of the obligations imposed by this National Assembly in 1994 and later in accordance with the rehabilitation of banks, I think that in 1998 the Bank of Slovenia issued a decision on successful rehabilitation. From here comes the debt of citizens and citizens, this is the debt that we have all talked about during the electoral campaign, to show today so much interest that you are at least willing to talk about the fate of the most powerful Slovenian, I stress, Slovenian banks. Ladies and gentlemen, Members and Members of Parliament! In fact, as little concern for this country as it is for our country's banking system, let us discuss whether the Ministry of Finance, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is familiar with the flow or the privatisation plan for potential buyers, and let us inform the government because the government does not want to be informed by experts about the desire to recapitalise. I'm asking for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u192	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word on behalf of the delegation? [[No, no, ……]] Does anyone want to explain the voice of the Members? Please. Mr. Kumer called earlier. [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Kangler.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u193	Thank you for your word. I will personally undermine this proposal by my fellow Member, Mr Pečet, although I do not agree with all the statements he has made. I was personally satisfied with the President's response to the government, which in some ways indicated the need to privatise the bank of Maribor. However, I will support this proposal from my colleague, Mr Pečet, for the reason that it is right for us in this House to talk about the problem of the privatisation of the Bank of Maribor. This will not be a general debate, this will not be a general debate at the initiative of Comrade Pečet, but it is right to hear the opinion of representatives of the parliamentary groups, and when we are so far away from the Slovenian People's Party, I would like to point out once again, we expect to speak in the general debate about the privatisation of Maribor Banska. But I am trying, and I would personally be happy to hear the change and I am sure that it would also be good for the government to hear the opinion of all parliamentary groups, what the relationship is and what the views of individual political options are to privatise such an important bank as the Maribor Credit Bank, which is currently the only one in Slovenian ownership, which is the largest bank in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u194	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to explain their voice? I understand that no one is involved, so we can move on to the vote. We're voting. Excuse me. Mr. Patch?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u195	There's no voting device. You have this practice in LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u196	If that's true, then in five minutes, I'm adjourning the meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u197	We continue with the meeting of the assembly. The services found that the voting devices were fine, but that there was a mistake to insert two cards. That is why the vote was taken and the outcome of the vote is also taken into account. The outcome of the vote is as follows: with 68 Members and Members present, 23 votes to 44. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision has not been taken. Is it a procedural question, Mr. Pache?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u198	Mr. President, you really can't do this. Look, no card was reversed. Before the vote began, we warned you that they were not working. Please, your professional associate or expert member of the National Assembly has arrived, and she has subsequently repaired the voting apparatus, and you are now saying that the cards have been misdirected. Please, come on! But a little correctness is needed. I believe it's a topic that doesn't lie within government parties, but not in this way, please! Or be so flexible and repeat the vote [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u199	Please, I'm in charge of a meeting of the National Assembly and I'm not in the technical business. The service technicians warned me that the voting devices were fine and that the two cards had been misapplied.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u200	Look, you've been warned wrong. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u201	I accepted this notice because I believe that this was a notification from the technical service which examined the voting devices. I have no intention of not accepting this opinion. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u202	Mr. Klavora, you will forgive the servant who has told this lie or not. Mr. Klavora, we are talking about the privatisation of the New Credit Bank, and on the basis of the opinion of one of the employees who lied, you will not be able to repeat the vote!?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u203	I would like to end this debate, please. Mr. Pache, we can't talk about this. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u204	Mr. Clavor, you're afraid.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u205	Discuss. [[...]] Voting devices shall operate.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u206	No, it didn't work, Mr. Clavor. We've warned you in due time on this matter. Mr. Clavora [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u207	After the agreement that was made, I'll do it again. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u208	That's what you're explaining to yourself.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u209	I'll just read it. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u210	But think about what you're reading, but...
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u211	and I will also think about it and also read Slovenian. [[...]] If, during the vote, a Member points out in due time that its voting apparatus does not work, the chairman shall suspend the vote. I didn't do it because it was later. If the vote ends with the result of the vote [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u212	I'm really sorry if you see any worse, really. But we warned during the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u213	If the vote ends by the vote being published, and the Member has warned that his voting apparatus is not working, the vote shall be repeated. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u214	That's why we just want to repeat the vote. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u215	if the services of the assembly find that the voting apparatus is defective. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u216	Mr. Clavor! During the vote, we warned you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u217	I don't think I can allow the debate to go forward by the rules of procedure. That's why I'm closing this point and moving on to the agenda. We continue with the end of item 2 of the agenda - second consideration of the proposal for the same-sex partnership law We are moving on to a decision on the next proposal for a decision. The proposal for a law on same-sex partnership, the second reading, is not suitable for further consideration. Anybody want to explain their voice? Please, procedural question, Mr. Pache.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u218	On behalf of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group, we request an hour of recess before the next decision. This time, so much notice, there's probably TV footage, we have enough cameras to see that we've warned you in time. However, I ask that you grant us, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the requested suspension of the Group of Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u219	Does anyone want to explain the voice of the delegation? Here you go, Mrs. Shirca.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u220	Thank you very much. Today, we have already repeatedly stressed that the issue of whether to conclude with the proposal for a variety of appropriate proposals for the same-sex partnership law has taken a long time in the Slovenian space to soften and adapt to the new circumstances, to new practices. This time was not only needed to regulate a given legal substance, but also to adjust the thinking which at this level had quite a number of concerns. Not only the European Union, but not only a number of recommendations and resolutions in this area, but also the relevant requirements of the future users of this law make us today to support this law and not vote in favour of such a decision proposed by the Commission or the labour force. I would like to stress only one aspect, namely that the matter as regulated in this law corresponds to those who will need it. Those who will need this law say that they do not agree with the proposals that they make, that the government is currently forming, and that, unfortunately, is not available to us today, even unfortunately because they would otherwise be easier to decide on. We are afraid that the new solutions to replace them, as well as the long-standing efforts and well-coordinated consensus, would jeopardize the wishes of gays and lesbians who are working to bring about regulation and the possibility of legal partnerships. This law has been defined, not only by civil society, but also by some parties who today feel that it would be better to regulate this matter differently. In short, I once again express my support for this law and I announce that we will vote against the decision as drafted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u221	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? Please, ma'am. Spending.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u222	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. In the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, we will vote against the proposal for a decision that the law is not a suitable basis for the continuation of the procedure. We believe that it is a shame to reject everything that has been reconciled in the years of drafting this law from a different perspective on the issue, which in all circles is not equally accepted in all layers of Slovenian society. We believe that it is the exercise of the legitimate rights of each individual to choose his or her partner and thus to form a community in which he or she will feel secure, in which he or she will find his or her emotional life richly fulfilled. The law does not impose such a relationship on anyone, but by means of the proposed solutions it allows the individual in such a community to exercise rights that are achievable for other citizens living in a heterosexual community. On behalf of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, we regard this law not as an ideal text, but as the text on which we have agreed, and we think it is most important in all that it is acceptable for a group whose fundamental issues are also addressed. Allow me to express just one more observation at the end of my call for you to vote against the proposed decision of the parent working body. Today, I felt that some in this round hall of the National Assembly had forgotten where they were, and they thought they were in another round hall. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u223	Thank you very much. Would any of the Members like to explain their voice? Please, Mr. Kumer. Anyone else? Mrs. Barbara Žgeiner Tavsh.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u224	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. All together for several years, and for the last two three years, we have been intensely saying that this issue needs to be resolved. But when we get to that day D, just like we are here today, we show up in that real scheming light. A thousand and one reasons are found only to avoid taking a step forward. And to take this step forward, I will today support the bill and oppose the proposal for a decision. For I believe that this bill, as it is prepared, does not endanger anyone, either in a symbolic or in any other sense. He's just trying to equalize citizens and citizens. And finally, all citizens and citizens are taxpayers of this country. With the adoption of this proposal, the level of tolerance in this country would also increase in this society and the example that would set for this rise in tolerance, we Members and Members of this National Assembly today may therefore not support the decision proposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u225	Thank you very much. Mrs. Barbara Žganjer Tavš. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u226	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. In this explanation I would like to say briefly, I think that in my presentation of the position of the Group of Members, I was correct enough, clear enough, not least, I will also take into account, I will say, a great deal of expertise when I studied the law before us and even when I was writing a speech. It is interesting to hear that some in this national council actually like the words of other or different aspects. I'm going to say that I'm personally involved in this and I'm not ashamed to say that I'm doing a master's degree in the field of same-sex partnerships. In short, I would like to say that I have been led by a great deal of expertise in this or my task and in the presentation of my position. And it is precisely because of this expertise that I never allow myself to compare the registration of same-sex partners with the registration of a car. I would, however, take advantage of the fact that otherwise we do not get a word in the Group of Members on the matter or on the unfavourable occasion that occurred at the preceding point. Mr Klavora, you personally told me that you had seen the hand of Comrade Pečet, but you thought he wanted to explain his voice, so you did not interrupt the vote. Do you think that's right?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u227	I gave you my word to explain your voice. You did not stick to this and continued your debate on the introductory part of this. We proceed with the explanation of vote. Who else wants it, please? Mr. Zagorac, Mr. Gulic. Anyone else? No one else. Please, Mr. Zagorac.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u228	Thank you for your word. Why I will not support the proposed law or why I will support the decision proposed by my mother's working body. In the beginning, I would like to say to the bill-makers, "Good morning", where you were for 12 years, when you had the power to settle this matter in this National Assembly. What you're doing today is transparent, rude and unacceptable. You're deceiving the public. This is the only reason I will vote in favour of the proposed decision. However, in advance, so that I do not then request a procedural request, I ask you to consult the Group of Members 45 minutes before the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u229	Thank you very much. I think I heard 45 minutes. Are you calling for a head of the parliamentary group or a deputy? I asked you nicely because [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u230	Since you've been changing your position five times in the last 15 minutes, if you want, yes, that's the deal. As Deputy Head of the Group of Members, I request 45 minutes of breaks in accordance with the Rules of Procedure for Consultation in the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u231	Thank you very much. I asked you in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, because this can only be required by the head of the delegation or his deputy. If that's you, then take it. Thank you very much. Mr. Gulic, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u232	Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, Mr Vice-President. I will vote against the proposal for a decision of the parent body, because it seems to me that the law as proposed is good, because, in fact, it does not take anyone personally, nor moral, nor physical dignity, which is, of course, the abolition of this proposal works. I will also vote because in previous periods I could not do so because I was not here and now I have this opportunity, and because I want to remain human. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u233	Thank you very much. I asked in the second round if anyone else wanted a word from the Members. I have found that no one, so I am concluding the second round of explanation for the vote of Members, and I am putting an end to this point. At the same time, at the request of the Vice-Chairman of the Group, I interrupt the meeting. We will continue the meeting at 5.48 p.m. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u234	We are continuing the meeting of the National Assembly. I give the floor to Mr Zagorac, Deputy Head of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u235	Thank you for your word. Your Honors are here! During the break in the Slovenian National Party, we addressed to the President of the National Assembly, Mr Tsukjati, a request for a repeat vote on the sale of the New Credit Bank in Maribor. Given that Mr Klavora has violated the rules of procedure, which he himself has admitted, we can say, not least without any blame, that he has also lied. He said that he saw Mr Pečet, who raised his hand during the vote and did not interrupt the vote because he thought it was an explanation of vote, which clearly indicates a complete ignorance of the Rules of Procedure, because Mr Peče had already explained his voice a few minutes earlier. Given that we expect an answer from Mr Cukjati and that this is such an important matter concerning Slovenia, Slovenia's national interest and Slovenia's only bank, last but not least in Maribor, all members of the Slovenian National Party will be obstructing the plenary meetings that will begin at this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u236	Thank you very much, Mr. Zagorac. I would like to say that, according to the Rules of Procedure, obstruction is announced at each point. We are continuing the meeting of the National Assembly. We continue with the end of item 2 of the agenda, which is the second reading of the proposal for a law on same-sex partnership. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "The proposal for a law on same-sex partnership, second treatment, is not suitable for further consideration." Anybody want to explain their voice? We're voting. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Excuse me? I'm sorry. The vote was taken. I just want to say one thing. I did not warn you before this vote that cards should be inserted and cards placed properly in the voting apparatus. The vote is closed. Out of 71 Members and Members present, 44 votes against 27. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 27.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the legislative procedure for the bill has therefore been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 3rd item of the agenda - the consideration of the proposed law on amendments and additions to the road safety law - the reduced procedure. We continue with the second reading, by deciding on the amendment tabled. By Article 4, we are voting on the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SLS to this Article. Does anyone want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? I'm guessing there's no one. Would any of the Members like to explain their voice? I'm guessing there's no one. Again, I'm asking if anyone wants to explain their voice. [[No, no, ……]] Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is closed. There were 70 Members and Members present, with 58 votes against 2. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill in the context of a reduced procedure. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted amendments to Article 4 of the amended bill. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table an amendment to this article? Please. I guess not. I find that no amendments were tabled in the third reading. On the basis of Article 140(5) of the Rules of Procedure, I request the Government to declare compliance. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u237	The amendment is in line with both Parliament's legislative service and the government service, so I believe that the matter is harmonised.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u238	Thank you very much. Excuse me. Excuse me. I find that the harmonisation amendments have been tabled because of the non-compliance of the law. Please explain.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u239	Thank you very much. The amendments that have been tabled have complied with the law and are now harmonised by the Law Service, so there is no reservation that these amendments would not be approved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u240	The Government has tabled the harmonisation amendments because the law on the home working body was inconsistent with the amendments adopted. This led to the need for harmonisation amendments. Since the government has warned that after the third reading of the bill due to the amendments adopted, the Government has drawn up harmonisation amendments for the new 14a, 18a, 24a and 24b articles you have received. Do Members and Members want a word? Here you go, Mr. Skull.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u241	It is a procedure, I will say logical, Mr Vice-President, but nevertheless we need to be a little careful about form. After a second reading, someone should find out in a formal manner that the law is inconsistent, and only then could an operation be carried out by Mr Minister and his minister earlier. If we allow this overtaking, then Parliament will, I will say, be pretty degraded, given that the solutions are coming through it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u242	Thank you very much. It is correct to treat inconsistencies after third reading. Please, Mr. Kangler.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u243	Thank you for your word. The Slovenian People's Party's Group will support all the three amendments proposed by the Government in terms of coherence and I think it is right that in Articles 14a, 18a and 24a and 24b of Article 24. I've fixed it, Comrade Squeakle. If you're funny, I'm not talking about serious things, but when we should call, you're not, but maybe you're hiding somewhere. Thus it is more than obvious and I think it makes no sense to draw the debate here into one thread that is clear to all of us. The Slovenian People's Party will support all four amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u244	Mr. Squeakle, would you like a word?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u245	Thank you very much. I will not answer the Member's opinion, although he also changed something yesterday, which he said he would ask earlier, but regardless, we will support the correctly tabled harmonisation amendments in the House of Members, although it can be concluded that it was not right to say that the law was harmonised, but that the law is not harmonised, so the proposed harmonisation amendments and in the LDS Club of Members will be supported by all four harmonisation amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u246	Thank you very much. Once again, I ask if any other Member wishes to speak. [[No, no, ……]] We will vote on each amendment individually. I am putting to the vote the harmonisation amendment for the new Article 14a. We're voting. The vote is closed. 71 present, 63, against no one. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I am putting to the vote the harmonisation amendment for the new Article 18th. We're voting. The vote is closed. 72 present, 63, against no one. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. We are voting on the harmonisation amendment for the new Article 24a. We're voting. Voting adjourned. 72 present, 63 for, against no one. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. We still have a final vote on Article 24b. We're voting. The vote is closed. 72 present, 63 for, against no one. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I therefore note that all the amendments are adopted, so we can move on to a full vote on the bill. Anybody else want to explain their voice? On behalf of the delegation? Mr. Tarchoon, on behalf of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u247	Thank you, Mr President. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u248	and Mr. Stabe as a Member. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u249	In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we regret that the government has not listened to our comments and we regret that the law will be passed so quickly or that the law will be amended so quickly. And we regret that users will never be able to compare whether we have made the right decision. An unpopular measure, which has been in force for some time, which has never been fully manufactured, car stickers, will be abolished. We were the first to criticize and try to upgrade this system. It is true that this upgrade took quite some time, and it is true that this national assembly has in the past decided on this system. We estimate that this decision is too soon, and if all the arguments and all the assessments were to be made, it would be easier to decide. Unfortunately, our users will not be able to assess whether it would be better for the system to upgrade and maintain the stickers, as compared to those in which this system works successfully, but we will return to the old system and perhaps sometime in the future when we complete it, we will also try to arrange it. We sincerely hope that after the adoption of this law, when problems arise, some serious analysis will be done and a real solution will be given to road users. Thank you. Just two more words. For these reasons, we will abstain from voting on this law in the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u250	Mr. Stabe is giving up. Anyone else want a word? [[No, no, ……]] We are voting on the bill as a whole. I'd like to warn you about the cards. We're voting! The vote is closed. Of the 73 Members present, 50 voted against. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I note that the assembly has fully adopted the proposed law. We continue with the adjourned 5th item on the agenda, which is the consideration of the motion for a resolution on the national food policy programme 2005-2010. As no amendments have been tabled to the motion for a resolution, we are moving on to a resolution decision. In doing so, I inform you that the Government or the Legal and Legislative Service has not informed me that the resolution would be inconsistent. Does anyone want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? I'm guessing there's no one. Anybody want to explain their voice? I'm guessing there's no one. We vote on the resolution. We're voting. The vote is closed and I note that of the 74 Members present, 71 votes against none. [[The vote was 71.]] [[No one.]] I note that the resolution has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 6th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the proposal for a decree amending and supplementing the Decision on the Sales Programme of State Finance and Real Estate for 2004 and 2005. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to point 2. We vote on the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. Does anyone want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? Please. Mr. Mikolič, New Slovenia. Any other Members please? Mr. Mag. Squeak and no one else.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u251	Thank you for your word. On behalf of the Group of Members, I will explain my vote. The main problem in a particular case is the signing of a lease. In the rental contract, the lessee may also purchase the property, which was not the subject of the tender. I must remind you that the content of the lease is also such that, despite the amendment being voted on today, we will not vote on it, which means that the State will not sell the property so that the tenant can buy the property as soon as he becomes a co-owner of the entire complex in a minimum share. That's how this lease is written. This disturbs us in the New Slovenia Group, why such a treaty has been signed. We are also disturbed by why the building rights treaty was signed on 3.12.2004 when we appointed a new government here. Of course, this leads us to wonder why it was so urgent at the time. This is precisely why we will vote in favour of the proposed amendment, but we note that the government must immediately address a particular problem, because we do not want the Rome Toplice complex to go backward because of the facts presented or not to be carried out, planned projects, of course, on the basis of all the facts I have mentioned or on the basis of the problems solved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u252	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Squeak, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u253	Thank you so much for saying that. Earlier, Mr President of the National Assembly had taken the opportunity to share with me the remaining time that had been left to discuss at this point, and we could have heard a representative of the Government in response to these few important questions relating to the amendment to the motion for a decree. The substantive question and, of course, I will present my vote on behalf of the Group of Members, is that it is true, not on December 3rd, but it has been a 12-year effort to find an investor for the Romans' Spas. These efforts have been completed in the past year. In the last two years of the previous government's mandate, the Minister for Regional Development has done so and then the RS Government, which took office on 3 December, has had all the documentation for a few weeks and has decided that the land and facilities of the former military medical and rehabilitation centre will be placed in a decree amending and supplementing the decision on the State's sales programme for real estate. This was the sovereign decision of the new government. If, of course, this new government did not know what it had done, then luckily, we have here a vigilant ruling coalition, a vigilant president of the National Assembly, which of course ensures, by what you are likely to support today, that you will actually create a political climate in which it is likely to come from withdrawing or withdrawing investors into this facility. That is why we will oppose the amendment in the parliamentary club, because we want to save the Roman Spas, so that this process can continue. If you succeed by the end of this government's term of office, of course I will sincerely congratulate you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u254	Thank you very much. Do any other Members want to explain their voice? Please, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u255	Thank you so much for saying that.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u256	Mr. President, if you'll excuse me. Mr. Han. Anyone else? [[Nobody.]] Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u257	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. As I have discussed the amendment before, we will confirm, so on behalf of the Group of Members, we will also confirm this amendment, by reiterating that this is mainly due to the fact that the Government, or the part that will be preparing the sale of this property property, has a certain time to examine the matter thoroughly and determine the procedures for the sale of the property for future. Of course, we also expect the government to come to the National Assembly in a very short time with a proposal for a solution, or with a proposal for amendments to this decree, and I reiterate that the problem of the Roman Toplice needs to be resolved, given that the agony has been dragging on, I think not for 15 years, but I think it has been for at least 17 years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u258	Thank you very much. Mr. Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u259	Thank you very much. As I said before, this amendment tabled by the SDS will not be supported in the United List of Social Democrats for a simple reason, because, as Mr Squeakl has already put before me, this agony in the Roman Warfare lasts 12 years. Both the Romans and the citizens of Laško were convinced that they had come to that final fact that we would still have one hope for the development of these Roman Toplices, and, on the other hand, I warn and appeal to this government, to make a better climate for economic development when they say that new jobs should be opened in Slovenia. We will not support this SDS amendment in the United List of Social Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u260	Thank you very much. We vote on the second point on the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. Mr Gulič, I would like to tell you that I asked you twice, I have made two rounds for Members' questions to explain the voice. I'm doing this, I'm sorry to say this to the end, I'm sorry, but this is how we discussed the business and work of those who run the national assembly between the sessions. Please, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u261	Mr President, I don't think there are any more circles that have been so decided.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u262	In my name and on behalf of those who also run the National Assembly and the Business Commission, I tried to keep order in this way, so I asked the Members twice if they wanted to explain their voice: whether I had given the opportunity for two rounds. Before that, I asked if anyone wanted to explain his voice on behalf of the Group of Members. I am firmly convinced that, in accordance with the agreement and with the rules of procedure and with the instructions of the group that made this proposal, I have done the right thing. You want a procedural question? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u263	I think, Mr President, that what you are doing is in stark contrast to what the Business Commission has adopted. It is the fact that the President of the National Assembly has asked for an explanation by the Business Commission, which has unanimously found that the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure at this point is not necessary, because the Rules of Procedure are perfectly clear and it is clear in the explanation of this Decision that each Member and each Member Group must have the opportunity to explain their vote. There is no other agreement in this regard: no first round, third or one, and so on. I'm surprised the chairman of the commission doesn't intervene, but we all got it in writing. And I was on the committee, too. In three minutes, the committee's session was over. We voted in favour of all the members of the Commission who were present there, both the positions and the opposition. I do not see any possibility for this explanation and for the arbitrary continuation of what has been denied or otherwise explained by the business commission. And I very much ask you, Mr President, to stick to this or read again what was written in the text that the Business Commission sent to all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u264	Thank you very much. Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u265	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. That is true what has now been said, but I think that if it was said A should also be said B. The Commission of Commerce has made it very clear that each Member has the opportunity to explain its vote in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. The way in which this provision is implemented is the conduct of the national assembly. I don't understand. I think everyone in this national council is normal as far as sound is concerned. If someone called us twice, we probably all heard, or if we were to be three times, four times, then this right would be more realized - in some way. I do not understand these procedural complications, to which individual Members of Parliament have always come. I think it's a matter of running a national assembly that has been legitimately elected and which has been given the confidence that in the most rational way it leads these meetings. And for my terms, this provision is respected, and leadership allows us all to have the opportunity to explain our voice and not to needlessly complicate these meetings, as some of you do all the time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u266	Thank you very much. I think I have acted in such a way that I have given all Members and Members the opportunity to explain their voice. I've said this a number of times loud and clear. We're moving to the vote. Procedural? Please. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u267	Mr. Chairman. What was just said, I think he needs some comment. It is clear in the Rules of Procedure that at any time before the vote any Member may explain his or her vote. This is written in the Rules of Procedure. All those who know how to read, that's what it says. Mr Gulič held his hand before we went to the vote, and he has the right to explain his voice. If what Crnach says is a matter of technique, then you, as chairman, can now voluntarily determine one round and limit time, but it is no longer a rule of law, but it is the Presidency's will to understand each other. And we are obliged to abide by the Rules of Procedure, and as President, you are obliged to give Mr Gulic a word and if I answer, so am I. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u268	Thank you very much. I gave you a chance to discuss it, not an explanation of vote. So I made a mistake. We're voting. Procedural?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u269	Mr. President. Dear Members and Members. What is happening is, of course, contrary to normal parliamentary practice. We have witnessed several times in this National Assembly the inability to explain our voice. In view of the clear letter from the LDS Business Commission on behalf of the LDS Club, I request a 15-minute recess in accordance with Rule 73 of the Rules of Procedure, in order to decide to continue to cooperate in the work of the National Assembly, because you do not allow Members and Members of the National Assembly to explain their vote as clearly provided by the Rules of Procedure and as clearly stated by the Rules of Procedure Commission.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u270	At the request of the LDS Group, I shall give 15 minutes of rest. We'll resume at 6.38 p.m. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u271	Dear Members and Members! We continue with the adjourned session. I'm asking the head of the LDS delegation if you'd like a word. Vice-President of the LDS Group, Mr Mag. Squeak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u272	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much for your words. Allow me to explain the position of the LDS Club, which we have reached at the consultation. Of course, we must first find that, for the first time, we have the situation we are facing after the report on the treatment of the application of Rule 72 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on the manner in which the vote was explained, where it has been made clear that the Commission considers that the interpretation of Rule 72 of the Rules of Procedure is not necessary, since the provision of that Article is clear and unequivocal. During today's session we had quite a few inappropriate events, but - Mr Vice-President, this does not fly on you. We will and we will propose, first of all, that you give Mr Gulic a voice, giving him the opportunity to explain his voice. Unless you do so, as the Liberal Democracy Club, we will obstruct the work of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u273	Thank you very much. I'm adjourning the session in five minutes, and after consultation, I'll decide. Thank you. We'll resume in five minutes, 18.47.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u274	Dear Members and Members! We continue with the adjourned meeting of the National Assembly. I would like to tell you that I believe that I have conducted the meeting properly so far and I have tried to explain in the best way what we have concluded in the joint agreement of the leadership of the national assembly and on the business committee. I have adopted the opinion of the LDS Group of Members. I give my word to Mr Gulic and ask if anyone else wants to explain their voice? Mr. Gulic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u275	Dear Presidents, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! I'm sorry if my hand was too small to be seen that all of this is now complicated. I wanted to say that I will vote against the amendment or the continuation of the sale of the Roman Toplice, mainly because of all the Romans and Romans waiting and really waiting for this decision for 15 years or more, in fact, when it was owned by JLA, they wanted to work there, live there, preserve this health resort and all the cultural heritage that is connected. Also out of respect for the lack of Slovenian physical culture, Professor Ulaga, this is what I want, which started with an action to get rid of it. And now that everything is going on ice again, I'm afraid, and I'm afraid the matter will linger indefinitely, so I'm going to vote against this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u276	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to explain their vote before the vote? I'm guessing there's no one. I would also like to add that, in view of the complications that have taken place, the leadership of the National Assembly will meet as soon as possible to discuss how to implement the business provisions. We vote on the second point on the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. We're voting. Voting adjourned. Of the 74 present, 48 votes against 25. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 25.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are voting on the amendment of the LDS Group to point 3. Anybody want to explain their voice? Mr. Tarchon and Mr. Squeakle. On behalf of the Group of Members, Mr Cwickl. Mr. Tarchoon. Mr. Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u277	Look, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, of course we will support this amendment. We also propose to the Members and Members that they support the amendment. This amendment only means that municipalities will have the opportunity to express their interest during the sale process and thus the law on the promotion of coherent regional development will be enforced in practice. Therefore, of course, we believe that all Members and Members who really believe that such a transfer of assets can ensure the acceleration of development in Slovenian municipalities in order to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u278	Thank you very much. Mr. Tarchoon. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u279	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'll support this amendment. I also appeal to all colleagues to do the same. According to information I obtained informally during the session because there was no time, but the government was running out of time for all the answers, I would like to point out that this amendment has a special weight. The decree also provides for a preliminary right of the municipality on land where it is intended to be exercised. However, I would like to say that, according to the information I have received, this preliminary right practically means nothing. In view of the assurances given to me by government representatives, this preliminary right only means that each land goes to a public auction and any of the auctioneers can also be awarded to a private person, with one tolar or with the lowest prescribed price at which it can raise, to the congregation exercising a pre-emptive right. This is not a preliminary right for building land that the municipality has if it wants to buy, where it wants to round the land for its needs, where it can conclude a contract with a direct contract on the basis of an accepted offer. So, even the congregations that accept the offer will have to go to a public auction, and whoever does it will have to do it. This makes it even more impossible for municipalities to acquire if we ignore everything I said earlier, that they could even obtain property owned by the state and that they are both publicly owned. That's why I'm calling on you again, and I'm going to undermine this amendment so you can break it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u280	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to explain their voice? Please. Mr. Blackach and Mr. Weber. Mr. Weber, first please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u281	Thank you, for your word. So I will support the LDS amendment, it is an extremely appropriate form of encouraging the development of areas where state buildings are either owned by the Ministry of Defence or by other ministries. I would like to draw attention to another very important fact that, even though the reorganisation of a particular service has always resulted in the fact that a department has literally withdrawn from an area overnight and has left behind one or more voids that the country has never dealt with properly, and, of course, these problems remain only for the local people or municipalities responsible for the area. If we allow them to obtain at least part of this property, as recorded in this decree, I believe that at least some of the consequences of such conduct can be mitigated. This can mean real, this property, including the new law and the extension of a particular problem either in the residential area or in the development of craft, entrepreneurship and other similar programmes, which certainly belong mainly to more remote areas in Slovenia. And I really hope that this amendment will be adopted, for I believe that the congregations will gain much by doing so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u282	Thank you very much. Mr. Blackach, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u283	Mr President, thank you for your word. Honorable representative of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. At first glance, this amendment seems very attractive mainly for local communities, but I do not think it can be supported for two reasons. Firstly, because it will significantly prolong the implementation of the decision on the sale of State property and the municipalities, it will not help to acquire the property it needs for its development needs, as the matter to be regulated by this amendment is already regulated by the law on consistent regional development and there is no problem that the municipality would have no interest or instrument in enforcing the transfer of property needed for its development needs. There's another problem. The problem is what I can say from a specific case in the municipality that the state procedure in these procedures, which has been signed under the previous authority, is so complicated that in one year it is not possible to carry out one of the normal transfers of assets that, for example, a specific municipality needs to develop the business and turnover zone. Therefore, the instruments available to the municipalities are in place and have them and, on this basis, may be carried out in accordance with the law without hindrance. If these amendments were adopted, they would have done twice: they would have stopped the pace of sales of state property and would have prevented these procedures from being put into effect by the municipalities in accordance with the legislation in force. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u284	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u285	Thank you very much. Just for a little while. In the New Slovenia Group, we will not support this amendment, but for the reason that such an amendment as proposed could bring a certain confusion into this decree. Indeed, the writers of this amendment have apparently overlooked that the decision amending and supplementing the decision on the sale programme of state-owned and real property relates to 2004 and 2005, while this amendment is somehow written only for 2005. It is clear that this distribution or this sales plan is not so strictly separated as to know what will happen in 2004 and what will happen in 2005. And the adoption of such an amendment would actually change the content and, as I said, put into the very decree of a certain ambiguity and in fact, these ambiguities could lead to delays in the procedures. As far as transferring to the congregations is concerned, this is actually possible today, if, of course, the municipalities have any real programmes for these purposes, but if they do not have programs, then it would certainly be pointless to endure something because then this property would continue to fall. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u286	Thank you very much. Mrs. Roach.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u287	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The municipality of Izola, where I am also the mayor, unfortunately or fortunately there are no facilities in its territory that would be owned by the State, on the contrary. With the marriage, the country supported the congregation’s property very briefly and very quickly, many years ago, but it has maintained it for ten years. At that time, the problem was not that the congregation could not exercise its right to own property, which it had built, itself financed, so I must say that because of the 30 days delay in the sale of property, if the municipalities were able to say in such a short time whether they were interested in taking state property into their own possession and possession, of course it was negligible, given how quickly the state could sell property. He's selling it very slowly. Also with regard to the concern that the 2004 and 2005 confusion arises, I would suggest to the government that it verify how much property was sold under the 2004 real estate sales programme, which was on the sales list in 2004. I think a lot of property will have to be sold this year from what was planned last year. I will support this amendment because so many injustices have been committed to municipalities in Slovenia since 1994, so many additional tasks have been obtained without being covered by additional means to make it fair to at least those municipalities that have in their area of state property to have this property in possession and possession. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u288	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word, please? Mrs. Zalokar. So do I. Mr. Squeakle. Excuse me, Mr. Squeakle, excuse me. Are you answering your phone?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u289	Yeah.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u290	You'll get your word for Mrs. Zalokar.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u291	Thank you so much for saying that. We really need to thank you now if you come to the floor in this House at all. I will support this amendment and, of course, I am not convinced by the arguments that the 30-day deadline could do any great harm, nor by the arguments that there would be a conflict in terms of property for 2004 and 2005. The amendment makes it clear that this is happening for that property that is still available after the adoption of the amendment and the amendment of the decree because it is 30 days. So I think it's about looking for arguments that just don't hold up and just point to the unwillingness of those who express your views that these options are a special call to the municipalities, which I think makes sense, because, finally, it's hard to monitor all things at the local level, where there are not many people, I think that makes sense and in favour of the municipalities. So that the colleagues who used to sit here don't understand what the problem would be so great that in the 30 days of the congregation they would call and give them the opportunity to actually get what's in their territory and what Pecanov's colleagues were talking about, that maybe sometimes even theirs are trying to get back. I think it is very important that if a country decides to sell property, it is in the first row that such property can be obtained in its territory that the congregations do.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u292	Thank you very much. Mr. Squeakle, as a Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u293	I explained earlier on behalf of the Member's Club, but now, on my personal behalf, I will reaffirm that this amendment is worth supporting. It's not true what you're saying that this amendment will complicate things. This amendment will only learn what the law says after coherent regional development in principle. We would have had the opportunity to propose to the Committee on Finance, in accordance with the legislation, that this decree be forwarded by the President of the National Assembly in the opinion of the municipalities, but the President of the National Assembly did not do so, so we believe that this amendment is the minimum that allows Slovenian municipalities to reach this property. This property, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament, came to the list overnight. The former government had no intention of selling all certain military facilities in a broad way, and you have decided to do so yourself, and now you are making it impossible if you do not accept this amendment, to the congregations that could receive development funds, you are preventing them from doing so. That is why I think it is a shame that you will not support the two largest parliamentary groups, but in my own personal name I will undermine this amendment, because I believe it is in line with its purpose, we will say which would accelerate the economic development of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u294	Thank you very much. Mr. Bajc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u295	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Although I am not coming as a member of the municipalities - I hope to say - where there is the most real property, which is owned by the Republic of Slovenia. But I'm not going to undermine this amendment for a few reasons. In Article 3 of the resolution under consideration, we say that these are sales transactions or other forms of organisation. When I represented the position of the Group of Members, I said that I expected the Government to draw up as soon as possible a list of all of the real assets available to the State, to find out what it needed for its needs or for the functioning of its organs, to submit the rest, or to make it available, it said, to the municipality - for free. But I don't want to break this amendment, but there's another reason. If we read it, it seems that some of your colleagues have read only a part of it, and they end up saying, "To own and own this property in order to use it for development needs in accordance with the existing regional development programmes." What about those congregations that now have much of this real estate that do not have these development programs? What's it gonna be in five, 15 or 50 years? In a specific case: if there is no willingness of the government, it may last from the signing of a contract with the government, the competent ministry and the municipality on the transfer of real property on the basis of a confirmed regional development programme for 3 years - I think one of the colleagues has raised his hand and said, for 4 years. I expect that a little different government readiness will be available to the real estate of this country.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u296	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to explain their voice? I'm guessing there's no one. We are voting on the amendment of the LDS Group to point 3. We're voting. The vote is closed. Of the 73 members present, 27 to 45 voted in favour. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're done voting on the amendments. There is still a need for coordination. I therefore ask the representative of the government, Mr Goraz Perenić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Public Administration to make a statement on the harmonisation of the draft decree. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u297	Thank you. In the light of the amendment voted, the government is proposing the harmonisation amendment you have received. It's just about repairing the totals. Since the Roman Heats have been withdrawn at 180 million, the final amounts should be reduced by that amount. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u298	Thank you very much. Since the Legislative and Legal Service has pointed out that the decision due to the amendments adopted is inconsistent, the Government has prepared a harmonisation amendment to paragraphs 1 and 2 which you have received on the bench. Any word on the harmonisation amendment, please? I'm guessing there's no one. We are moving on to a decision on the harmonisation amendment. We vote on the government's harmonisation amendment. Anybody else want to explain their voice? I'm guessing there's no one. We're voting. The vote is closed. Of the 68 present, 50 votes against 12. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 12.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a full vote on the motion for a decree. Anybody want to explain their voice? Mr. Weber. Anyone else please? [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Weber, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u299	Thank you for your word. I will not support the decree for the reason that I know that the municipality or, in particular, one of the municipalities has certainly asked the individual ministry to transfer to it for development purposes the assets sold by this decree and because the LDS amendment has not been adopted, it is indeed impossible for local communities or municipalities to obtain this property for their development purposes. This decision has indeed been taken by the government without any negotiation or demand with those areas that have already expressed an interest in obtaining this property. It seems to me that such a government procedure is unfair, inappropriate and, of course, extremely irresponsible to areas which, because of its behaviour, have already been affected by the scale of its activities. And of course this decree will only make this situation worse, so I will not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-22-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u300	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? I guess not. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. The vote is closed. 71 present, in favour of 48 votes against 22. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 22.]] I note that the proposed decision is fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item and interrupt the 4th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. Good night!
