ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u1	Dear colleagues and fellow Members, Mr President of the State Audit Commission, dear young guests! Today it rains and snows, and it seems as if the sky is crying because of yesterday's tragic traffic accident, in which eight human lives were extinguished. True, however, it is so in life that after an accident comes happiness that after the rains of the sun. And the good news is that as of today, we have a new pope, and I am sure that the pope is not the last personification of peace, that at this moment we can forget any political perceptions and differences and wish him congratulations, as successful as possible, on the health, energy and wisdom that he will need in his work. [[Let's hear it.]] This will also begin the continuation of the 5th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and cannot attend today's meeting of Members and Members: Breda Pecan from 12.00 p.m. onwards, Mr Ferri Horvat, Milan Petek, Jožef Školč and Villa Trofenik until 12.00 p.m. We're moving to 2. POINT OF THE DAY’S REGISTER - DEFINITIVELY PROPOSAL OF A DECISION ON AGREEMENT TO THE OFFICER OF THE STATE AUDIT COMMISSION FOR THE AUDITOR’S AUDIT PROCEDURES OF PUBLIC APPOINTMENTS. This item provides for one hour and 18 minutes for the total time of discussion. The material was submitted by the State Audit Commission for consideration and I give the floor to the President of the Commission, Dr Alexi Možin, for an additional explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u2	Dear Members and honourable Members! Allow me to summarize in a few minutes the genetics of the rules of procedure. The new State Audit Commission started its work a few days before the new year, which is December 23rd last year. As early as the first days of her work, she put herself in charge of trying to bring the existing rules of procedure into line with the innovations that emerged in the five-year part of the State Audit Commission. On 18 March this year, she also adopted the Rules of Procedure of the State Audit Commission on her work. Perhaps a few brief introductory phrases about why the new Rules of Procedure had to be adopted. The new Rules of Procedure had to be adopted for two sets of reasons. The first is Slovenia's entry into the European Union and the second reason is the amendment of a number of public procurement laws and the functioning of the state administration in general. I may just list some of these: the amendment of the law on the revision of public procurement procedures, the new law on public servants, the law on access to public information, the law on the protection of personal data, the law on fair procedure together with novelties, and, last but not least, the harmonisation of the operation with the views of the Court of Justice of the European Community. I would really like to draw attention to the essential characteristics for a short time. The essential feature of the new Rules of Procedure is that the operation, i.e. the relationship between the President and the general meeting, i.e. the entire State Audit Commission, is divided into operational work on the one hand, i.e. the President is carrying out operational work and, on the other hand, the general meeting of the State Audit Commission - decides on the basics of the organisation and the profession. This is precisely why, although this brings us new tasks and even harder work, we have decided to try to achieve in as many cases as possible that the Senate of the State Audit Commission and not just the individual decide on specific matters. This, of course, brings about a system of brakes and balances, achieves greater legal certainty and consequently improves the efficiency of the work. Maybe some basic information. As a rule, after the adoption, if the National Assembly gives its consent, the Senate of the three members of the State Audit Commission will decide on specific matters. This will be as long as there is a need to publish a public contract in the EU Official Journal and in the case of constructions even in the case of lower values. In addition, the standardity of binding on the Constitution and the law, as laid down by the Court of Justice of the European Communities for the status of the Tribunal, shall be introduced. Perhaps another fact that I would like to point out. The new Rules of Procedure should also allow for greater operationality of work from the point of view of the decision to suspend procurement procedures. In fact, as you probably know, any revision of the procurement procedures will delay the further execution of the procedure. In other words, when the audit is submitted, the State, the municipality, another public body may not continue the procedure. The possibility of withdrawing from this position is now being regulated here, i.e. the so-called issue of provisional orders. In short, the operationality of issuing provisional orders is regulated in Article 29 of the proposal for a new Rules of Procedure. The new Rules of Procedure largely summarise the existing situation, aligning the existing situation with the legislation that has been amended over the past five years, and introducing some new provisions, as I mentioned earlier, which, on the one hand, would increase the effectiveness of this, and on the other hand - here is the emphasis - in particular to ensure greater legal certainty for all participants in public procurement procedures, both tenderers and contracting authorities.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u3	Thank you very much to the chairman of the commission. The material was also treated by the Committee on Budgetary Control and other public finances as the home working body of the National Assembly. I'm asking the chairman of the commission, mag. Milana Cvikla to present the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u4	Mr Vice-President [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u5	Allow me, please, if you turn off your phones and calm down a little bit so those who have a word can speak. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u6	Mr Vice President, Members and Members of Parliament, distinguished young guests! The Commission of the National Assembly shall, in accordance with the procedure, examine the material or rules of procedure of the State Audit Commission and report to the National Assembly today. I hope that today's debate will be less formal than substantive, because, of course, the Rules of Procedure of the State Audit Commission, together with legislation on the revision of procurement procedures and public procurement, are an important instrument for transparency of public finances. However, allow me, as President of the Commission, to tell in particular how the procedure was conducted. The Commission began its consideration of the Rules of Procedure at its 5th regular meeting on 16 March 2005. We have also received a number of comments from the legislative and legal services at this meeting, so we have adopted only a conclusion that we will not hold a debate, but that the State Audit Commission should revise the procedures for the award of public procurement rules in accordance with the comments of the legislative and legal service and replace the existing text of the Rules of Procedure with a new one. This also happened a few days later, on 18 March 2005, the State Audit Commission forwarded a new text of the Rules of Procedure to the National Assembly. Therefore, at the 1st urgent meeting of the Commission on Budgetary Control and Other Public Finance on 30 March, it was examined and it was found that the legislative and legal service noted that the text of the Rules of Procedure was in line with their comments and that it had no comments on the new text. We also found that, after the President of the State Audit Commission explained that the previous Rules of Procedure had been adopted five years ago and that, through practice, they had identified the need to prepare a new one, that we had no comment on the Rules of Procedure and had adopted the following decision unanimously at the meeting of the Commission: "On the basis of the second paragraph of Article 7 of the Law on the revision of procurement procedures, [[Uh-huh. I. RS, No. 78/79, 90/99, 110/02 and 42/04]] Therefore, in accordance with Rule 112 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we propose to adopt the following decision at today's meeting. The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia agrees on the Rules of Procedure of the State Audit Commission for the revision of procurement procedures of 18 March 2005. However, it is necessary to say that at one of these meetings, on 16 March, our Commission, the Commission I am leading, the Committee on Budgetary Control and other public finances, also discussed the annual reports on the work of the State Audit Commission for 2003/2004 and in the substantive debate on the basis of the audit committee's suggestions, in particular how the government should amend the Public Procurement Act and the law on the revision of the procurement procedures as soon as possible this year. As President of the Commission and as a Member of the National Assembly, I regret that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia did not take part in this meeting of the Commission on 16 March, nor in an urgent meeting and today the representatives of the RS Government are not present in this Chamber. That's not good. It is not good because the drafting of legislation and the consideration of the debates on the Commission are of the view that the key basis for the Government to make amendments to two important laws is to bring them into line with the European Union directives 2004-18 and 2004-17, since these two directives must be in force in the Republic of Slovenia by 31 January 2006. The government must also regulate the non-compliance between the Public Procurement Act, the Construction of Buildings Laws and the Law on Spatial Planning. I hope that the Prime Ministers, if they join us or otherwise in writing, will be able to explain what they intend to do on this subject. It is a matter of problematic issues as to data protection, languages in offers, deadlines for submission of tenders, electronic publication of public tenders and electronic auctions, and it would be good to see the new government speeding up in this regard. So far, governments have not seen on the Committee on Budgetary Control and other public finances, and I hope that, as provided for in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, they will attend at least the conclusion of the debate on the Rules of Procedure of the State Audit Commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u7	Thank you very much, Mr. Ambassador Mag. Squeak. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. I invite Mr Willi Rezman to present the position of the Democratic Party of Retired Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u8	Thank you very much, and good day to all. Initially, it is likely to be recalled that these procurement procedures are very different, they are those of a purely minor nature and those of a billion-dollar financial nature. However, they are also very different with regard to the procedures themselves, from unsolicited to those that are barely yet properly prepared by many, so it is very soon that the regulation allows for proper procedures so that those who are applicants and those who are seeking review can be found in this process. The State Audit Commission has laid down its rules of procedure for us, and the home working body of the National Assembly has had no comments, nor has it given us any suggestion of substance for reflection, so that we are actually setting our own views. The DeSUS Group would like to say the following in particular. That the relevant organisation and composition are provided for in the Rules of Procedure so that these procedures can be properly conducted for the following purposes. Firstly, to safeguard legality, secondly to ensure legal protection for all entities involved in such procurement processes, to protect the public interest at the same time, and to make these procedures more effective, which is particularly important for those who order and for those who have been tenderers for the execution of individual contracts. We believe that it is also appropriate to ensure that individual contracts can be monitored and that the public is also assured of the work of the State Audit Commission. This is an important opportunity to do so, because it commits to greater responsibility, which, in so doing, I find, in addition to being independent and independent, which is right, also responsible for procedures which may be extremely important for individual entities. [[...]] Therefore, the DeSUS Group will support the proposal to give its consent to this Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u9	Thank you very much, Mr. Rezman. I invite Mr Rudi Veršnik to present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Hello, everyone! I will give the opinion of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group. The Rules of Procedure of the State Audit Commission shall govern in more detail the organisation and manner or procedures of its work. The proposed new Rules of Procedure were drawn up or adopted by a representative and members of the State Audit Commission in a new composition. And the National Assembly will give it its consent. In the parliamentary group, we understand the proposed amendments to the Rules of Procedure as a reflection of efforts to make the state audit commission more transparent and efficient, reflecting the efforts of the current president and members to fulfil the tasks of the State Audit Commission even more effectively: firstly, ensuring the legal protection of tenderers, and secondly, public interest in all stages of public procurement procedures. The State Audit Commission adopted the first proposal for a new Rules of Procedure on 9.2.2005. Since the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly has drawn up a comment to the draft Rules of Procedure of which there are 17 out of 39, the State Audit Commission has submitted a new or revised proposal which is before us today. The Legislative and Legal Service and the Commission for Budgetary Control and other public finances as mother labour have no comments or follow-up proposals to the new proposal. However, in the SDS Group of Members, we believe that when agreement is given to the Rules of Procedure, it is necessary to draw the attention of the National Assembly to at least one matter or issue which the initial proposal of the State Audit Commission wanted to address and the new proposal no longer deals with. Is it true that the State Audit Commission, as an independent authority, does not define procurement procedures as a criminal body under the new offence law and thus can only make a proposal to initiate an offence procedure with the competent criminal authority or the court? In the parliamentary group, we would like to hear the answer of the President of the State Audit Commission to the question whether such an arrangement for sanctioning irregularities can ensure effective protection or sanctioning of parties who violate public procurement rules and whether it complies with the relevant guidelines in the European Union or the European practice of sanctioning infringements of public procurement procedures. In the first proposal of this Rules of Procedure, the State Audit Commission, in Article 17, paragraph 3, provided for the conduct of the infringement procedure to act as a criminal body. Otherwise, in the SDS Group, we believe that the proposed draft Rules of Procedure of the State Audit Commission can provide a good enough legal basis for the successful performance of the tasks of the State Audit Commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u11	Thank you very much, Mr. Ambassador Veršnik. The word has magic again. Squeak, this time as a representative of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u12	Thank you so much for saying that. Hello again. On behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club, I would like to inform the Assembly that we will support agreement on the Rules of Procedure of the State Audit Commission. Why? The reasons for this are the fact that, with an appropriate part of the committee of the National Assembly, the members of the Commission were able to reach full agreement on the text of the Rules of Procedure of this State Audit Commission. As is known, the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have been communicated by the State Audit Commission in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 7 of the Law on the revision of the procurement procedure as one of the important laws providing for more efficient and transparent public finances. In doing so, we would like to assess that, in addition to an effective part of the State Audit Commission in recent years, public procurement legislation has had a significant impact on more efficient implementation, public finance management through the protection of tenderers in procurement procedures. In this regard, we expect the new Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the National Assembly to continue to regulate the area of public procurement by adopting the relevant legislation in the Liberal Democratic Club. In this regard, however, some representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia have recently raised an interesting thesis or, if you wish, a dilemma of further development of the public procurement system, which will also have an important impact on this Rules of Procedure, as well as any changes to the law on public procurement and the revision of procurement procedures. We are all aware that the public procurement system is not intended for itself. It is intended to ensure the prudent use of public and private funds in the case of concessional transactions. In this sense, we say that this system is integrated into a comprehensive system of public expenditure management. However, financial supervision of public expenditure management is best illustrated by the work of the Commission, which adopted the Rules of Procedure unanimously at its meeting. In the past mandate, led by the current Minister of Finance, Mr Bayuk, who - as I said earlier on behalf of the President and now as a representative of the Liberal Democracy Club - does not consider it necessary to send his professional associates or the competent State Secretary to the meeting when we consider an important document affecting the management of public finances. The Commission of the National Assembly, led by the Liberal Democracy in this mandate, has dealt with 23 cases in good four months, adopted more than 30 decisions and in this regard almost upgraded the work, led by Minister of Finance, Mr Bayuk, as the previous President of the Commission in the previous term. That is why, of course, it is very important for us, and that is why we will also support today that the conclusions of the Committee on Budgetary Control and other public finances are adopted unanimously. Why? Because it is likely that all political parties are committed to ensuring full competition in public sector business through public procurement rules. This competition is crucial for strengthening public financial governance and precisely rules, including the rules adopted today, namely the Rules of Procedure of the State Audit Commission and, in this context, the revision of procurement procedures, prevent the predominance of non-economic criteria or the enforcement of reasons which are not justified in terms of the market or market protection. In this context, it is very important that the Rules of Procedure of the State Audit Commission and the further amendment of both the Public Procurement Audit Act and the Public Procurement Act remove those obstacles to the functioning of the free market, which are conditioned by a specific public sector regime. As Dr Vesna Kranjc said in a comment on the law on public procurement, the Economic Gazette, page 18, states that the authorities have the possibility not only to influence public sector decision-making in relation to the exercise of public functions, which is the fundamental role of the authorities, but also to their business decisions and procurement procedures, the revision of the procurement procedure should prevent this influence of the authorities. In this context, in Slovenia, the fundamental issue of the further development of public procurement in the context of the development of the public finance management system in Slovenia and the European Union as a whole is raised in these months. Government representatives - and this is most clearly represented by the Minister of State or Minister of Health, who acted as Minister of Health at the time of the adoption of the key supervisory act of the National Assembly in this reference, the adoption of the final accounts of the 2004 budget of the Republic of Slovenia, poses some new issues. These issues are said to be as follows: complicated legal arrangements for public procurement, with insufficient knowledge of the services responsible in the government, the ministers are caused by gray hair with unsuccessful procurement procedures that prevent them from effectively - as soon as possible carrying out important projects, in citing'so it costs as much as it wants'. If this issue arises primarily as a basis for justification for amending or oversimplifying the rules, in particular under conditions of limited competition between tenderers in specific areas in the Slovenian market, then this will not be good. The problem is, and it is therefore important to adopt today's rules of procedure, that some of these are already emerging in specifying the reasons to replace centralised health procurement by decentralised contracting entities with tailored procurement. This is wrong because the rules of public procurement and the revision of procedures should take account of the interests of consumers and not of tenderers. We are afraid, and the result of this problem would be that through re-decentralised procurement or simplification, there could be a reduction in public health consumption or some other spending points. In this respect, we will fight and oppose these after re-decentralisation in the parliamentary club. We believe that it is necessary to act differently. It is necessary, and in this regard, I have already spoken as the President of the Commission, to upgrade public procurement legislation, to review the procurement procedure and at the same time to strengthen the competition of tenderers in such a way as to build on their expertise and strengthen the independence of the highest public servants. Strengthening the independence of the highest public officials means reducing their political dependence or increasing their professional capacity. I will not go to the point that, despite the fact that domestic suppliers on the Slovenian market can not be called corruption because of a number of comparative advantages and, of course, because of the victory at the invitation to tender at home, you cannot be called corruption, but rather a reflection of the lower prices due to the lower transaction costs of domestic customers compared to foreign suppliers. The upgrading of expertise and the strengthening of independence, i.e. the reduction of political dependence and the increased professional capacity of the highest public officials, is crucial for having transparent public finances, transparent public procurement and public procurement procedures in Slovenia. The procurement is a market imitation where contracting authorities, top government officials, directors of directors, secretary-generals of ministries, directors of bodies in the composition of ministries with the closest co-workers play the role of a fully informed buyer. This buyer has to maximize the value he buys. That must be his only criterion. And this is also one of the key reasons, it is said that we have a fully informed, independent buyer who maximizes the value he buys, why it was necessary to reform the public service system, to review the procurement process, to ensure the independence of the institutions involved and also the independence of the highest public servants. These highest public servants are key decision-makers in collecting tenderers on public tenders. It is known annually to carry out 500 billion public contracts, small and large. And the new political compatibility of the highest civil servants can affect that - because they can be replaced by ministers at any time during the term of office - they can also influence their decisions on which of the tenderers they will propose to the Minister for confirmation of the election. In this context, we believe that it is necessary to upgrade the procurement system, to prevent, as Dr. Kranjchev says, the predominance of such non-economic political criteria or to establish reasons which are not justified in terms of market protection. In conclusion, allow me to point out, of course, that we will support the proposal of the Commission for the supervision of the budget and other public finances, in order to adopt the Rules of Procedure first, and also to support those suggestions proposed by the State Audit Commission to the Commission and the Commission has accepted that it is necessary to accede as soon as possible to the amendment of the Public Procurement Act and the Law on the revision of public procurement procedures. The Commission believes that, and we support this in the Liberal Democracy Club, that the government should prepare amendments to these two laws as soon as possible and ensure that the non-compliance between the laws in this area is resolved. Mr President of the State Audit Commission, and also in the report of the home labour force on the 2003 and 2004 reports of the State Audit Commission, it is said which are the most important points to be discussed by amending the law: data protection and so on. Public procurement will also be particularly problematic. We hoped and wished that representatives of the government who had not participated in any of these agenda items of the Commission would reply to us directly here today, but what the Government believes about the rules of procedure of the State Audit Commission, what the Government thinks about further activities in this area. However, government representatives decide to communicate with the National Assembly through the media. Indeed, in today’s newspaper, the economic side of Dela, is an article where the government, through representatives, explains what it intends to do and how it intends to proceed. Even though it is commendable that journalists have opened this topic, it is sad that the government has so far refused to cooperate on the subject of public procurement with the competent committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Is the work of the Commission for the Poor Ministry or the Minister of Finance too extensive? I hope not. I expect from the executive, I expect government representatives to explain to us what they intend to do in the area of public procurement. It is logical that the executive authority communicates with the State Assembly in the National Assembly, not through or through the media alone. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u13	Thank you, Ambassador Squill. As a speaker, I invite Ambassador Bredo Pecan to present the position of the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues! The Group of Social Democrats, like the others, of course supports the approval or consent to the Rules of Procedure of the State Commission for the Revision of Public Procurement. However, it must be said that in the procedure for the consideration of this Rules of Procedure, the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs has pointed out to the Commission for the supervision of the budget and other public finances on certain shortcomings or in the proposed Rules of Procedure at the first stage, which in fact corrected or supplemented certain provisions of the law on the revision of public contracts. Thus, the adoption of the uncorrected Rules of Procedure would in fact interfere with the legal matter and, irrespective of the fact that the law on the revision of public contracts has some shortcomings, in particular, non-compliance with the new law on offences - namely, the criminal authority is the novelty of the law on offences and should be corrected immediately or even with amendments to the law on offences, which provide that the offences are dealt with before a court for offences which are no longer committed since this year. Therefore, rather than resolving this matter in the Rules of Procedure, which would go far beyond the area covered by the Rules of Procedure, it would be necessary to approach the law on the revision of public procurement as soon as possible, not to say immediately, in order to avoid legal vacuum. If the State Commission, by reviewing public procurement, finds offences which may also have serious consequences, it does not have a designated criminal authority, so that it is essentially unable to act on the basis of its law. Nevertheless, I would say that, nevertheless, it is right not to allow such sub-laws to be adopted, which is, after all, that they should be amended by the basic, fundamental law on the subject. As is the practice that certain sub-legislative acts, such as government regulations or regulations of individual ministries, interfere with the law and amend laws. Here, I believe, is a practice which the National Assembly cannot oversee, but in our view we should be careful that the government and individual ministries do not do so, because otherwise there may be serious complications in the assessment of the constitutionality and legality of individual acts issued by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or its Ministry of the Interior. The next thing we believe in the parliamentary group is that it is right for the State Audit Commission to adjust its business rules to the law which is the basis for its work. At the same time, in view of the reports that we have been able to review in the Commission over the past few months, it is very intensive and also of quality; however, that the law on the revision of public contracts can be said to be excessive in its main purpose, that is to protect the interests of tenderers on tenders or to collect tenders within the framework of public procurement. It is the fact that suppliers are well secured through this law and through the functioning of the State Audit Commission, while investors or contracting entities themselves do not have the right protection. Offerors may at times invent grounds for complaint or audit and thereby delay the implementation of the procurement procedure, cause disproportionately high costs, increase the costs of public procurement and have no consequences. Here, I think, there are subscribers - because this is a matter of public procurement, it is a matter of public law - somehow in a subordinate position. And since public procurement is often complicated by public procurement procedures precisely because of audit procedures, not because of the poor or slow work of the audit commission, but because of the many unjustified complaints or the opening of audit procedures by the tenderers, the contracting authorities feel that the law on public procurement is complicated that the law on public procurement is the act which actually causes difficulties in procurement procedures. We believe that legislation in the field of public procurement procedures should be regulated in such a way that the weight of protecting the interests of the contracting authority, who is a person of public law, and of the tenderers who are competition in the fight on the public procurement market should be balanced in some way. And here I believe that the role of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the role of the Court of Auditors, which, in its supervision, identifies the gravity of all shortcomings, errors or even worse infringements in the field of public procurement, the State Audit Commission and inspections, budgetary inspections, coordinated work. This would lead to, rather than being simplified, but as clearly as possible, a public procurement procedure where the responsibility of individual operators is clear, it is said that the authorising officers and guardians of individual budget items, both at the state and local level, and that there are no situations where a person is said to be the official in charge of the contract, who is in charge of it, is hiding himself in the shadows and taking all responsibility for the shortcomings, mistakes and breaches of the law on public procurement to someone else, usually the superior. Here I believe that this transparency is also in the personal responsibility of individuals, which we have seen in the Commission, that many times comes, say, in the Court of Auditors and then, of course, also on the Committee on Budgetary Control and other public finances, to, nicely said, ridiculous situations where the Minister, Minister or Secretary of State has to answer questions about the serious shortcomings in public procurement procedures, which have actually been committed by people who should answer in person and who should also be in time not only to be warned but also to be sanctioned. If not, they also lose their right to work in such a state or municipal body. Here I believe that this cooperation of all the three bodies I have been talking about is the real budget inspection, the State Audit Commission, the Court of Auditors and the National Assembly through the Commission on Budgetary Control and other public finances, and the Ministry of Finance, as necessary, and I believe that this year we could come up with - on the basis of the experience we have so far - very good results that would lead to - say when we consider the final accounts of the 2005 budget - to the very good reports of the Court of Auditors. Thank you very much once again; the Social Democrats Group will support the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u15	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pechanova. To be presented, I invite Mr Cyril Testen, on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u16	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Members and Members, President of the State Audit Commission. Despite some positive developments seen annually in public procurement, public procurement is undeniably one of the key problems that this National Assembly will have to continue to address and find appropriate solutions in the legislative field, as well as in the functioning of the institutions most responsible for the regularity of public procurement. For a wide variety of reasons, violations of public procurement laws in the past have been very common among various public funds consumers, which have not been immune to either the Ministry or the government service. In New Slovenia, we will consistently support all proposals that we believe will help improve public procurement. We also support the revision of the Rules of Procedure of the State Audit Commission for the revision of public procurement procedures. It is essential that the Rules of Procedure should be amended after five years of validity, in view of the changed circumstances and also of the changed working conditions following Slovenia's entry into the European Union. The State Audit Commission, which, under the law on the revision of procurement procedures, is an independent and independent State authority to control the legality of the procurement procedure, ensures the legal security of tenderers and also the legal security of public interest at all stages of the procedure. The key and important changes, in our view, are the following: more precise is the responsibility and responsibility of the President, as well as of other staff of the State Audit Commission, the new Rules do not provide for the appointment of a Permanent Vice-President, and they appoint the Vice-President in the absence of a President at a general meeting, which is also the main body of the State Audit Commission and which adopts all the relevant decisions of the Commission. The new Rules of Procedure also provide a slightly more precise definition of when the President of the State Audit Commission, depending on the scope of the case and also on the level of value, has to appoint a Senate, and in the awarding of public works contracts the subject is to be identified as more difficult in terms of the appointment of a Senate for all services for which a mandatory publication in the Official Journal of the European Union is required. An important task of the State Audit Commission is also to prepare proposals for the adoption of measures or to give initiatives to amend public procurement legislation to the national assembly or to the government. The New Slovenia Group agrees and will vote in favour of an agreement on the Rules of Procedure of the State Audit Commission for the revision of public procurement procedures. Our Group believes that changes are necessary and that they will help to better protect tenderers and also to better protect public interest, which is particularly important in our view. I'd like to say one more thing for the end. I read an article in Del this morning, and I would like to highlight the consequences of public procurement. There's an article in Del entitled "Mirague Demands Compensation". Given that Mr Squeakl was very critical of others, it is obvious that this article has been overlooked and it would be good to comment a little. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u17	Thank you very much, Mr. Testen. Mr Kristijan Janc has the floor to present the position of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Mr President of the State Audit Commission, colleagues and colleagues! The State Audit Commission, which is a separate, independent and independent State authority to control the legality of the procurement procedure and to ensure the legal certainty of the tenderers in all stages of the procurement procedure, decided, in the interests of clarity of work and the public, to draw up comments with a new composition and a new President to amend the Commission’s Rules of Procedure. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we welcome the efforts of the State Audit Commission to improve transparency of work, which is why we will also support or agree to the Rules of Procedure of the State Audit Commission for the revision of the award of public contracts. Of course, we want them to work successfully or to have good control over the legality of procedures, and above all to be even more up-to-date in their work, in procedures that are usually linked to many investments and the completion of procedures, both for contracting authorities and for contractors. However, from the new government, which has already been heard in Parliament and on several occasions on various committees and commissions, we really expect it to complete or amend the law on public procurement as soon as possible, as practice shows in all forms of public procurement that it is inadequate, that sometimes it is also harmful, that it is speculative, for various budgets, both local and national, where public funds are concerned, which is of course not good. I therefore hope that the government will hear this and, together with the relevant ministry, deal with it as soon as possible, prepare and communicate it to the national assembly for consideration. I think this thing is very hot, very current and I hardly know a Member who would not agree that this matter is necessary in order to prepare a change. I believe that the government hears this and that it will do so as soon as possible in accordance with the requests we have already made. The Slovenian People's Party will therefore support and give its consent to the Rules of Procedure and hopes for an even better work by this important Commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u19	Thank you very much, Mr. Janc. Mr Bogdan Barovic will be the last to present the position of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear government representatives who are not, colleagues and colleagues! I mentioned this because I would like to have some answers to the proposal for a decision on consent to the Rules of Procedure of the State Audit Commission for the revision of procedures. Maybe I'll get them sometime. The first and essential question, given the habitability of the five years I have been asking on behalf of the Slovenian National Party and, in particular, on my behalf, is quite simple. Why? Why the new Rules of Procedure of the State Audit Commission? I believe there are some reasons, but to understand the answer to the question why, there is no power in the rapporteur or in the report of the committees that have discussed this. Nowhere! As we know that, with the validity of this Rules of Procedure, the one written in 2000 will cease to apply. I'd really like to know why. Where are the comparative data, where are the differences in individual articles? Turning to the question why, I am asking the following question. It seems very strange to me that the legislative and legal service, given that it has been our biggest support in this national assembly - for the fifth year now, I have been accompanying their opinions and opinions - that it has found so many random mistakes, among which are the essential ones that have been an attempt to intervene in the judiciary. I also expect a response from government representatives - once upon a time. And since we've also heard in the presentation of the change of commission, competent, I've gone on to the content. Article 3 - Organisation and method of work, II, states in paragraph 3, "at the time of the absence of the President, he shall carry out the tasks under his authority and shall represent the State Audit Commission as a member authorized by a general meeting on the proposal of the President". Don't mind me, maybe this is more formal than the substantive question, but I'd like to, I'd really like to know what it means to be a sitting. I also read Article 11, which speaks of a general session, but I do not understand that expression. What is the general meeting, who is the general meeting? Who is that body that can replace the President? Article 6 - Protection of secrets. The President of the State Audit Commission, by means of a specific internal act, shall specify more precisely the measures and procedures for the protection of personal data and data representing national, military, official or commercial secrecy. If this President is given such power to this President, and it is only right for him to do so, even though I would rather see it in the law itself or in the rules of procedure that are changing. Why is that, I ask? Why? I compare Article 6 - then let's talk about the content - with Article 24 which speaks of exclusion. On the one hand, we give the President such powers that he can determine for himself what the measures and procedures are where, I don't know, I will say, Barovic will reveal what he was doing wrong and we won't tell each other what he was doing. In view of the fact that we have an exclusional article, which is, excuse me, a kind of complete confusion. However, the President or a member of the State Audit Commission may not decide on the matter if it is, in a business, related relationship, in a row or by-line manner with the tenderer, the legal representative or the tenderer's representative, the members of the bodies, etc., in a business, related relationship, up to the number of four colleagues listed, in a legal relationship, even if it has ceased, and in an extra-legislative community or in association with the third colleague listed, etc. I ask you kindly if this is part of the rules of procedure or if it is already the case, let the matter be clear and transparent. I want to ask you one more question, but I'm not getting any answers. Article 19 - Assignment of cases, third paragraph: "In the award of public works contracts, as the value of the subject matter of a public contract, under which the matter is defined as being more difficult within the meaning of the obligation to appoint a Senate, the value in which a public service contract is subject to mandatory publication in the Official Journal of the European Union." Now, I'd really like to hear one of you tell me what that means, what I read, because I don't understand. Another time. I agree with the content, but it seems to me that there should also be a provision in this Rules of Procedure, where it should be clearly and clearly stated, which are those public contracts which are mandatory for publication in the Official Journal of the European Union and which are those which are not mandatory for publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I apologize for being in another marriage, but I would be happy if the government would tell me what kind of marriage I could see it in. In short, the key question that I am giving, once again, to the emphasis, the honourable colleagues and colleagues, is why the new Rules of Procedure. Again: why? Where are the major changes, where's the greater transparency, where I don't know what's what? However, from the content itself, I regret to say that I have a personal feeling that this Rules of Procedure are written in order to write the Rules of Procedure, but not to define and modify certain substantive or substantive benefits. In the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, although we have decided that everyone will vote in their own conscience on this Rules of Procedure, on its behalf I will say that we will not oppose the Rules of Procedure in principle. But please again, and I warn all those who are trying and working to make the basic rules of procedure with all of them as we have been trained, and we will probably continue to know where the essential changes are, that we will know why the changes are coming, and that, finally, we will also understand everything that is written in this part of course, but probably because of the urgency, because the text had to be corrected on the basis of the opinion of the legislative and legal service. Another last suggestion or advice to colleagues who are not from the government is sometimes good to consult with the legislature first and then write down the Rules of Procedure, not the other way around: to write down the Rules of Procedure, which then - at least in this case, after seeing how many comments - last but not least, instead of those who wrote it, is written by the Legislative and Legal Service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u21	Thank you very much, Mr. Barovich. Maybe just a note of why there are no government representatives here. They're quick because this time it's not the government that's proposing the document, it's the State Audit Commission. Her president is here, and I think he will be happy to answer all the questions below. At the same time, I would like to welcome the new group that has joined us on stage or on the Tribunal of potential Members and Members. Welcome! We are finished with the presentation of the views of the Group and are moving on to the debate of Members and Members. At this point, I can tell Dr. Možina that she has the right to answer the question immediately, and I strongly suggest that she waits, because we have only two more speakers to report, and then you can answer, and then we will see how much time we have left at our disposal. Therefore, I invite Mr Barovic, who gives up, and Mrs Pecan, who is not. Mr. President of the Commission, then you have your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u22	Dear Members! A few questions were raised, to which I owe the answer. Let me go in the order in which the questions were asked. First question - the criminal authority; is the State Audit Commission a criminal body? The first version of the Rules of Procedure left this issue open. Therefore, depending on the legislation, the State Audit Commission would or would not be a criminal body. The legislative and legal service has simply taken the view that this issue needs to be addressed by legislation. We agreed on this and prepared the final proposal as it is. In doing so, we would like to draw attention to the question whether it is appropriate for the State Audit Commission to be a criminal body. It is not the most appropriate arrangement for the authority deciding on the dispute to find that someone has done something wrong in the dispute, and later as a criminal authority, he punishes it. However, despite the fact that such a dictatorship is not the most appropriate, we have nevertheless taken the initiative of the Ministry of Justice to resolve this issue. We presented this initiative in January of this year. Next question, new European procurement legislation has been adopted, not in the area of legal protection. Thus, in the field of regulating public procurement procedures, the new legislation was adopted last year, in particular on 31 March, published on 30 April of the previous year. The deadline for implementation is 31 January next year. Until then, there is something else that is clearly an excellent opportunity to regulate effective public procurement. The next issue that has been raised is the protection of the interests of the tenderers. So, in a way, there was a suggestion that there might be too much protection for the interests of the tenderers. I would like to point out that, in some way, the Rules of Procedure deal with this issue in part with the so-called "ex-parte" option of the provisional order, i.e. without delay, to issue a provisional order allowing a decision in the dispute to proceed. Still, that's not enough. Since this is not enough, we also submitted a proposal to the Ministry of Finance on December 27th, then later in February, to amend the legislation in this part. This work was promised by the Ministry of Finance, and the answer was given to accept our initiative. With regard to the set of questions on what is changing and why changes are needed, I will say very dactylographically. Thus, since 2000, two new laws on the revision of public procurement procedures, a new law on public servants, a law on access to public information, a law on the protection of personal data, a law on judicial proceedings together with novelties have been adopted. Entry into the European Union of the Republic of Slovenia, granting the status to the State Audit Commission as a tribunal in terms of jurisdiction before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. Perhaps a major change is just an issue that has been raised, that is the composition of the Senate. The question of the composition of the Chambers was raised in the debate. I'd really like to warn you about that. The Rules of Procedure may contain a somewhat difficult legal standard to understand in Article 19. However, this legal standard is intended exclusively for greater efficiency, greater legal certainty in procurement procedures. An act specifying which procurement procedures are published in the Official Journal of the EU is contained in the Public Procurement Act, which provides for this in the 83rd and subsequent Articles. Why, then, is it in some way a difficult norm that the Senate is considered to be a more difficult matter if it is published? Because in procurement procedures the threshold for publication in the EU Official Journal is approximately, this depends on the conversion - that is, the specific drawing rights in euro, about EUR 6 million. And under the law on the revision of public procurement procedures, only in those cases should the Senate be appointed. Since we believe that this value is too high, we have decided, together with the law enforcement service, to set up a standard to lower this value, which means a larger number of the Senate. It's also a matter of a general session. It shall consist of the President and the members. The President shall only provide for the protection of security measures, i.e. the secrets of legislation, which shall determine which data shall be kept confidential. Exclusion arrangements are the same as decision arrangements [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] in all procedural rules. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u23	Thank you very much. I'm guessing we have a good 15 minutes left, so I'm asking who else would like to apply. Yes, Mr. Mag. Squeak. I'm guessing no one else. That's why I'm inviting Mr. Squeak to the floor. But you have five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u24	I won't need five minutes. Of course, I would just like to reply in the reply to the gentleman who mentioned me before in the presentation. Yeah, I've read both articles. By, of course, for the first time, the article you mentioned is about what it must be, it is the relationship between someone who has concluded a valid contract in the Slovenian legal order and, of course, is seeking legal protection. If you feel that political treatment in the National Assembly can take legal protection from someone, then this is a new way of working in this country. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] [[...]] Otherwise, the material that I have mentioned, of course, is this article, rather a new law than a direct directive. This article explains, through journalists, the government tells us what it will do on two very important laws. There is also one law, the law on the revision of procurement procedures, for which there is a parent working body with which we sit and, of course, regret as President of the Commission and on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club, that the government has decided to communicate with the National Assembly in this way. It would be good, and the government has not taken advantage of this today, at least at the meeting of the national assembly, if not at the meeting of the home labour body, when we discussed the report on the work of the 2003 and 2004 State Audit Commission or when we discussed the Rules of Procedure, to give its opinion and, above all, to respond to what it says it will do. But here is a whole bunch of news, including that there will not be one marriage, but that there will be two laws, which is, for example, contrary to what the government has published as a government work programme on its website. That's what this is about. And we need to adopt this law by 31 January 2006, otherwise the directives will apply directly. All those involved in public procurement know that the direct application of the directives can be problematic, so the content of the Public Procurement Act, if these are two laws, as the representatives of the Ministry of Finance in the newspapers say, will be contrary to the government's work programme, then, of course, even more so. I think, of course, it would be right to discuss once at a meeting of the National Assembly on the subject of public procurement or the revision of the procurement procedure, that the government should give its position, so we have asked questions here by the representatives of the two parliamentary groups. Obviously, we will not get an answer to the questions today, and I regret this humiliating attitude of the new Government of the Republic of Slovenia towards this national assembly. This is primarily a "responsibility" also, in saying, the leadership of the National Assembly, so that we do get a slightly different government relationship on the substantive subject. Of course, as President of the Committee on Budgetary Control and other public finances, I will no longer refer to the Commission or interrupt the meeting if the government representatives are not present at the meetings, because it simply makes no sense to debate without government representatives, to discuss with the government what the newspapers are writing, but it is not in accordance with parliamentary democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u25	Thank you very much. This concludes the debate. The following is a classic warning regarding the verification of the performance of the voting apparatus. As you know, there must be a yellow light on the right side of the device. It is also desirable that you have card insertions. That's it. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia agrees to the Rules of Procedure of the State Audit Commission for the revision of procurement procedures of 18 March 2005. Anybody want to explain their voice? If I'm trying so hard, I can't see any hands. So we're voting. I note that there are 63 Members present, 58 votes in favour, against no one. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to five. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - TO DEFINITIVELY PROPOSAL OF THE RATIFICATION OF THE AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE CZECH REPUBLIC ON THE SETTLEMENT OF THE WAR GRAVE. As no amendment was adopted by the parent working body in the context of the second reading, there is no debate on articles and amendments. That is why we are moving on to the third reading, which is the decision on the proposal for a law. That warning from before is still valid, and so is my invitation to explain my voice. There is no particular interest here either, so I propose that we start voting. We're voting. Thank you very much. I note that there were 61 Members and Members present, 56 for them and 5 for them. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it that the bill has been adopted. This concludes item 5 of the agenda. We're moving to six. Agenda item - Proposal for a Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of Romania on Participation in Health and Medicine. As before, no amendments were adopted by the parent working body in the context of the second reading, so there is no debate on articles and amendments. We are moving on to the third reading, that is to decide on the proposal of the Act. Anybody want to explain their voice? [[Nobody.]] So we're voting. Thank you very much. Presence changes from second to second. There were 64 Members and Members present this time, and we all voted in favour. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. It's 7 o'clock. Agenda item - Proposal for a Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Turkey on cooperation in the fight against organised crime, the completion of trade in illicit drugs, international terrorism and other serious criminal activities. As no amendment was adopted by the parent working body in the context of the second reading, there is no debate on articles and amendments. That is why we are moving on to the third reading, which is the decision on the proposal for a law. Anybody want to explain their voice? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. Thank you. There are 67 Members and Members present, 66 for us, against no one. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. 8. Agenda item - Proposal for a Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Slovak Republic on Mutual Protection of Secret Data. There was no amendment to the second reading by the reintroduction of the labour force and there was no debate on articles and amendments. We are moving on to the third reading, that is to decide on the bill. Does anyone want to explain their voice this time? [[Nobody.]] Thank you. We're voting. Thank you. There are 64 Members and Members present, and we have all voted in favour. The law has been passed. We're moving to nine. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Council of Ministers of Serbia and Montenegro on Participation in Health and Medicine. Again, no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body in the second reading, so there is no debate on the articles of the amendments and we are moving on to the third reading, that is to decide on the proposal for a law. What explanation for the voice? [[No, no, ……]] It's going pretty fast today. We're voting. 69 Members and Members were present, 68 votes for us and no one. [[The vote was 68.]] [[No one.]] Thank you very much. This law has also been adopted. We're moving on to 10. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on the Ratification of Protocol 14 of the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, which alters the Convention's supervisory system. No amendments were adopted by the parent working body in the context of the second reading. There is therefore no debate, so we are moving on to a third hearing, to a decision on a proposal for a law. Anybody want to explain their voice? [[Nobody.]] Thank you very much. We're voting. Thank you. 68 Members and Members present, for 66, against no one. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] This law has also been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 11. Dotko - Defence proposal for a law on the ratification of the agreement between our Republic of Slovenia and EURofimo for the credit obligations of the Slovenian Railways (HOLDING) D. O.O. A total of 80 million Euros. I give the floor to Mr Srečko Friend to present the position of the Slovenian National Party Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Of course, the 11th and 12th points, which are combined in the proposal for ratifications for the rental of loans or guarantees for the rental of loans of €80 and €74 million, are supported in the Slovenian National Party. However, the warnings we gave and initiatives years ago have come across questions from the Members. I would therefore like to reiterate the essence of the last question of the Member States, which represents the whole issue of rail infrastructure, which requires an immediate approach to solving this problem. Our fellow Members asked very specific questions in the previous mandate, 11 of which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia had not answered. Mr Pece was gravely interrupted at the meeting when he spoke about the issue of Slovenian railways in the previous term. Given that the railway infrastructure in the Stajerska area is very poor, because we do not overcome 12.5 tonnes of basic pressure and therefore are already threatened with loss of cargo, in Primorska there is a wear on the rolling stock in such a state that we are essentially combining trains with diesel locomotives, I can compare this state of the railway infrastructure with the 1965 period. In fact, it is shameful for the Slovenian State to operate in disharmony, allowing the holding company to operate in violation of the law. We know that the holding company of the Slovenian Railways was established 1.7., also described by three subsidiaries in the Court Register, but never lived in essence either with passenger or freight or with the area of infrastructure. They're operating illegally. It is done through holding, bookkeeping is dual and in fact there is also an increase in the volume of work in the presentation of financial transfers. Last but not least, I would also like to mention that on Slovenian railways recently, management structures were essentially talking about business success. When the government accepted the state and all responsibility for running the country, it found that the biggest budget deficit existed on the railway, 27 billion tolars, which were so allegedly swept under the carpet, and today the Finance Minister is working on how to meet the needs that are indeed acute and are also due to international obligations, that is, we have not even provided the European Community's participation in the loans it has earmarked for the development of the basic railway infrastructure, which amounts to 10 billion tolars. On the other hand, we note that this is not how the current government has taken immediate approaches, as a proposal has been made on the Transport Committee to withdraw this item from the agenda and with, I will say, a large majority of this proposal has also been confirmed. Mr Kangler, I am sorry that he is not here today, he has promised to convene a committee on this item on the agenda without delay, the topic should be clear, the burning state of the infrastructure and the financial situation on Slovenian railways, which also threatens the safety and order of rail transport, before the May Day holidays, but this will not happen. As we can see, once there is no minister, there is no secretary of state, and in fact we all tolerate it in a kind of quiet way. In international requirements, we are quite concrete, and I would like to point out that on 17 January Brussels approved EUR 620 million for funding 30 projects, which will in fact also be financed in the territory of Slovenia, especially here on the second track of Koper-Divača. In this context, we have received in the parliamentary group some half-response from the government, which speaks of a way of attaching to our reality, but nothing has been said so far how these issues will be addressed. In the Slovenian National Party, we hope that these issues will be resolved as soon as possible and that criminal responsibility will also be triggered against those who were responsible for the situation in the past management period, such as those on Slovenian railways today.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u27	Since no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body under the second reading, there is no debate on articles and amendments, so we are moving on to the third reading, this is a decision on a proposal for a law. Anybody want to explain their voice? [[No, no, ……]] Thank you very much. We're voting. 65 Members and Members are present, and we have all voted in favour. [[The vote was 65.]] [[No one's against it.]] The law has been passed. We're moving on to 12. Agenda item - Defence proposal for a law on the ratification of an agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and the euro for the credit obligations of the Slovenian Railway holding company amounting to EUR 74 million. Once again, I would like to call on the Member of the Friend, who is giving up his position as soon as it is not very similar to the previous point. As no amendment was adopted by the parent working body in the context of the second reading, there was no discussion. We're moving to third treatment, to decision-making. Does anyone want to explain their voice this time? [[No, no, ……]] Let's start by voting. There were 67 Members and Members present, and we all voted in favour. [[The vote was 67.]] [[No one's against it.]] So this law is also passed. We're moving on to 13. POSITION OF THE DAY LINE, which already has an address so far below for a shorter law, in view of the proposal for a law on the ratification of the Treaty between the Republic of Slovenia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development on the takeover of rights and obligations under the Commercial Agreement of 12.4.1994 between the Slovenian Railways and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and the Treaties between the Republic of Slovenia, the European Investment Bank and the Holding of the Slovenian Railway on the derogation and the transfer of rights and obligations (PREPARTMENT OF SLOVENIAN TRAINS A, THE SLOVENISH TRAIN PROJECT B, THE SLOVENIAN TRAINS, TRAINSLINS, No amendments have been adopted by this working mother body in the context of the second reading, so there is no debate on articles and amendments. We are moving on to the third reading, that is to decide on the bill. Anybody want to explain their voice? [[No, no, ……]] Please let us vote. Thank you very much. I note that 66 Members and Members were present, we all voted in favour, despite the complicated title. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. We're moving to 14. Agenda item - Proposal for a Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Turkey on the international road transport of passengers and goods. No amendments were adopted by this working mother body in the context of the second reading, and there is therefore no discussion. We're moving to third treatment, to decision-making. Anybody want to explain their voice? [[Nobody.]] We're voting. 65 present, all in favor. [[The vote was 65.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. We're moving on to 15. Agenda item - Proposal for a Law on the Ratification of the Protocol to the Convention on Mutual Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters between the Member States of the European Union, which the Council prepared on the basis of Title 34. Member of the Treaty on European Union. There was no amendment to the second reading by the reintroduction of the labour force and there was no debate on articles and amendments. We are moving on to the third reading, that is to decide on the bill. Anybody want to explain their voice? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're voting. 67 present, all in favor. [[The vote was 67.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. We're moving on to 16. Agenda item - Proposal for a Law on the Ratification of the Convention on Mutual Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters between the Member States of the European Union, which the Council prepared under Title 34. Member of the Treaty on European Union. We're moving on to the second reading of the law. I'm gonna go check again to see if there's been an amendment. I'm guessing no amendments have been tabled. In the third reading, as you know, they can't be invested. That's why we're moving on to a decision on the law. At the same time, I inform you that the legislature or the government has not informed me that the law has not been harmonised. Anybody want to explain their voice? [[No, no, ……]] Thank you very much. Let's go to the vote. 61 Members and Members are present, and we have all voted in favour. The law is therefore adopted. Thank you very much. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] We move on to the 16th A Dot of the Day - to the defence of the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Infringements - Emergency Procedure. With regard to this item of the agenda, two draft laws were tabled in the legislative procedure, namely the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Act on Offences, the simplified procedure, EPA 125-IV, which was submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on 2 March 2005 by a group of Members with the first-signed Mr. Cveto Zalokar Orazem. And the second draft law on amendments and additions to the Act on Offences, urgent procedure, EPA 155-IV submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on 11 March this year by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice decided, in the course of the debate on those proposals, to deal with them in accordance with Rule 117(3) of the Rules of Procedure. At the same time, he decided that the follow-up procedure in accordance with Rule 127 of the Rules of Procedure would lead on the basis of a proposal for a law submitted to the National Assembly by the RS Government. In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Rule 117 of the Rules of Procedure, in order to further explain the draft law, I invite all co-proposers of the bill, namely the Government of RS and the representative of the group of Members with the first signed Cveto Zalokar Orazem. So I would like to invite the Prime Minister, Dr. Lovra Sturm, to present the government's position.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honorable National Assembly! RS Government proposes admission [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u29	Mr. Secretary, I'd only ask you if you didn't go to the pay phone to get up if it wasn't too hard for you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u30	Sure, thank you so much for the heads-up. The RS Government proposes the adoption of a law on amendments and additions to the Offences Act, which regulates the following. The first set of proposed arrangements relates to the regulation of offences by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, as well as to infringements laid down by European Community rules that apply directly in the Republic of Slovenia. According to the applicant's assessment, the entry of the Republic of Slovenia into the European Union has resulted in the sanctioning of certain infringements to the new situation, since individual rules of conduct may also be regulated by the rules or acts of the European Communities which apply directly to the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia. In the event that these rules are regulated by a Regulation of the European Union sanctioning the infringement, it is necessary for the Member States of the European Union to adopt appropriate legal acts to that end to determine the legal nature of the infringements and to lay down appropriate sanctions. The proposed regulation is based on the fact that, in practice, more and more cases are emerging and that the Government is also competent under the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Act, Article 21, paragraph 7, to issue legal acts under its jurisdiction to enforce the rules of the European Union. The proposed option therefore constitutes a clear and clear provision for sanctioning the provisions of the European Communities' rules directly applicable in the Republic of Slovenia. Another time. The second set of amendments refers to a provision whereby fines paid for an offence, the income of a State or of a self-governing local community are paid for an offence committed by the criminal authority of that self-governing local community. The current regulation provides that the municipal income is only those fines paid for the offence determined by the municipal decrees and that they have been made by the municipal criminal authority. The third set of proposed amendments refers to a different regulation of the way in which the compulsory recovery of a fine imposed by a judgment on an offence is carried out by the competent tax authority in accordance with the provisions of the law governing the compulsory recovery of taxes. Such arrangements are already laid down in the applicable law for the recovery of fines imposed by criminal authorities. For reasons of prudence and greater rationalisation of the recovery of fines imposed by a payment order and the costs of a court-claimed procedure against a payment order, it is also proposed that an amendment be proposed with regard to the authority proposing for compulsory recovery in the event that the request for judicial protection is rejected or rejected. In such cases, forcible recovery should be proposed by the criminal authority, not by a court which rejected or rejected the request for judicial protection against a payment order. In this way, according to the applicant’s assessment, the budgetary burden is reduced by managing recovery procedures, which are relatively high compared to the value to be recovered, the sum of the costs of the procedure and the fine, or only the costs of the procedure. For reasons of prudence, it is also proposed to determine the competence of the tax authorities to sell the seized items. The last set of proposed amendments to the Act on Offences relates to the regulation of the situation of previous Judges for offences in respect of the fulfilment of the conditions for the exercise of a judicial function in respect of rights acquired under the former regime, since the Constitutional Court, on an initiative to assess constitutionality submitted by the Court of Justice for offences in Domžal, found the non-constitutionality of the provision of the sixth paragraph of Article 217 of the Law on Offences and also delayed the enforcement of this provision pending the abolition of unconstitutionality. In its decision, the Constitutional Court assessed, inter alia, that the new arrangements for the organisation of judges and courts for offences in the Offences Act were based on reasonable grounds which required the harmonisation of the law of offences with the Constitution, with criminal law and with the obligations of the Republic of Slovenia to the international community. As there were legitimate reasons, according to the Constitutional Court, for judges to continue to work in the District Courts only if they have a legal examination, such an applicable regulation is in the public interest and therefore does not constitute a breach of the principle of trust in law and thus a violation of the rights acquired. The current regulation of the position of judges in the law on offences is therefore based on the conditions laid down in the Constitution in particular by the Law on Judicial Service, which provides for a legal examination as a fundamental condition. Therefore, in the view of the Ministry of Justice, it is also not possible for judges for offences which do not have this examination to allow them to continue to serve as district judges in general, nor as special judges for offences, only for offences, since such specialisation would not be compatible with the CAP-1 itself. We further believe that the decision of the Constitutional Court requires that these judges retain the rights acquired, which are primarily in the sense that they have a judicial function to retire, while at the same time respecting the reasons which led to an arrangement whereby, without a legal examination, they cannot perform a judicial function.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u31	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask Ambassador Cveto Zalokar Orazem whether I would like to have a word as a co-proposer. [[No, no, ……]] As the draft law has also been considered by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a working body, I ask the Committee president, Mrs Mojca Kucler Dolinar, to present the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u32	Thank you very much. Nice hello to you all! At its 6th emergency meeting of 15.4.2005, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice addressed the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on offences submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia as an urgent legislative procedure. At this meeting, the Committee considered two draft laws under Article 117, paragraph 3, and Article 127, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, namely a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Act on Offences tabled by the Group of Members and Members with the first signed Cveto Zalokar Orazem and a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Act on Offences, the proposed Government of the Republic of Slovenia. In the context of formal decision-making and determination of the proceedings, the Committee also adopted the following two decisions before the beginning of the second examination of the draft law under the provisions of the Rules of Procedure on the treatment in the home labour body, inter alia, that the draft law which will be the basis for discussion does not include any of the articles in the draft law which governs the same social relationship, since the Government has already taken into account in its Article 2 of the law on the solution contained in the draft law of the Member State and, in the light of the business decision, that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on offences, the proposers of the group of Members and Members, is not suitable for further consideration. The Committee then held a second reading of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Act on Offences, submitted to the National Assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia following an urgent procedure, in accordance with all the decisions adopted. The representative of the applicants provided additional explanations and her arguments. He also provided additional explanations from a government representative - State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice. Although she welcomed the Government's decision to take part in taking their proposals into account in Article 2 of its proposal. For that part, which was not taken into account, she also made a proposal for an amendment of the Committee to this Article, which was not later adopted. However, it did not insist on the solution referred to in paragraph 4 of the proposed new Article 17a of the proposal. The proposal for an amendment to Article 2 was opposed by the Government because, in its view, it is contrary to the provision of Article 22 of the Law on the Financing of the Communities. According to the Legislative and Legal Service, the Act on Offences is also not a suitable place to deal with such issues, as this is the subject of a system law on the financing of municipalities. With regard to that proposal, the amendment of the Committee was put to a very lively debate between the members and members of the Committee, namely, several members supported the text of the amendment proposal, where the local community would thus stimulate the collection of fines, since the fines removed would not be counted among the revenue of the municipality and thus would not be taken into account in the procedure for the financial compensation of the municipalities. On the contrary, other members felt that the aim of the collection of fines by local communities was not only to generate revenue from this title, but should be to regulate, for example, the peaceful transport of settlements and that the problem of financing municipalities needed to be addressed at the level of the state and the treatment of the law on the financing of municipalities, which was the right address for the resolution of this pressing issue. The representative of the Government introduced a complementary explanation to the proposal for a law, stressing that the bill consists of four sets, namely the harmonisation of the law on Slovenia's entry into the European Union, further the revenue of municipalities on certain fines recovered, then the execution of fines or the enforcement of fines will take place again on the tax authority and the regulation of the status of former judges for offences to which the committee has also proposed an appropriate amendment. With regard to the regulation of the status of current judges for offences, the debate focused on the appropriateness of the solution to the proposed amendments, as it is the view of the legislative and legal services that different solutions can be found, which were opposed by both the government representative and the representatives of the Judicial Council. Members also received the opinion of certain municipalities on both proposals of the law and no amendments were tabled to the proposal. At the initiative of the Ministry of Justice, the Committee, as its own, adopted the amendments to Articles 2, 5 and 6 and the two conclusions which are reflected in the material you have received. You have also received an integral part of this report, i.e. as a complementary proposal for a law prepared by the Committee by including all the amendments adopted in the draft law for the second reading. So much for the debates on the committee, i.e. on the working body. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u33	Thank you very much, Mrs. Dolinar. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. I invite Mr Rudolf Petan to present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u34	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Respectable. The material before us under consideration has the basis in the Government's proposal, which has dealt with and also partly has taken into account the material and proposals prepared by the Group of Members in its proposal. The government proposal also deals with broader content, mainly because of the inadequacy of the law on offences concerning the status of judges for offences placed under the new law in the judiciary and thus levelled with the judges of the courts with general jurisdiction. In view of the placement of judges for offences in the judicial branch, it is not appropriate for them to have an arrangement allowing the existence of two groups of judges: one group which holds a legal examination and the other types who do the same work would not have this examination. If this remained, it would mean that there would also be two different legal arrangements regarding the status of judges or the conditions for judicial service. The government proposal solves this. However, it must be acknowledged that it is really just one person who would step out of the system, but the system would still be broken. This person who has not passed a judicial examination in three years, since the law is known and has less than three years until retirement, will be left with the rights acquired so far, including the salary, but is deprived of the right to a trial because he does not meet the general conditions, so that is to say he does not have this judicial examination. However, the second substantive area, which has been the subject of quite a hard debate, represents fines. A particular problem with this topic is the proposal of a group of Members for certain types of exemptions, the non-compliance with the fines paid by the local community's criminal authority, which is an integral part of the local community's budget, to be excluded from the budget, from the calculation of own revenue, which is, at first glance and in the short term, a very good case, but it must be recognised that such arrangements have been adopted in the previous mandate, namely in force 7.2.2003, and apply from 1.1.2005. This same group of Members was, of course, the ruling majority during that term and adopted such a solution, probably not by chance, so there will be no criticism because they realized that such a solution was contrary to the law on the financing of municipalities, in particular Article 22 thereof. Thus, the solution is as advocated by previous governments. On the other hand, for the Slovenian Democratic Party, it is totally unacceptable to the opinion of the drafters of the law, and I quote: "to date the provisions of the Law on Offences and the Law on the Financing of Municipalities, a local community which is the recipient of financial compensation is not stimulating to start implementing its legal obligations within its territory, such as the regulation of the control of peaceful transport, because the new proceeds of fines have a negative impact on it because it is consequently reduced by the State's financial imbalances. This is true, but such thinking can also be on very slippery soils, as the difference between rich and poorer municipalities, especially rural municipalities, is increasing in this way, and is far from our declaration straight for the more coherent and even development of the whole of Slovenia. As I mentioned earlier, it is also contrary to Article 22 of the Law on the Financing of the Communities. On the other hand, in our view, it is dangerous to think that fines are only stimulating due to the full budgets of the municipalities. The analogy can, of course, apply to any budget, so there will be no mistake. The purpose of fines is and must be different. In a specific case, the supervision of peaceful transport should be carried out and sanctioned by the offender for the desire to regulate and enforce the situation in this area, it is also said in the local or urban community; not because of fines and penalties imposed on citizens due to the charge of the budget. Claims that stimulating and controlling peaceful transport is the only financial aspect that is wrong and harmful and we do not support it in the SDS and cannot, in the long term, regulate things that would be particularly satisfying for participants in transport. This is all of us, anyway, in a certain situation. Let me finish because time is running out. In the SDS, we believe that the solutions proposed by the government and adopted by the Home Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice are good and will be supported in the SDS, of course, without any additional amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u35	Thank you, Mr. Petan. I would like to invite Member Cveto Zalokar-Orazam to present the position of the Member's Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u36	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues. In fact, we have before us the only substantive law proposed by the government to the National Assembly for the April session, and we have actually encouraged the Members who had previously tabled their proposal, so that is, in fact, kind of sad. Amendments to the Act on Offences entered into force in January. In their application, we have found some shortcomings and problems in the congregations in particular. Members of the LDS have therefore tabled in February amendments to that law, which proposed by deleting Article 17 and some additions that fines should be paid for offences which, in accordance with the law and regulation of the Government, by means of state rules, should be made subject to the authorization of the criminal authorities of the municipalities or local communities to become the proceeds of local communities. We also proposed that the revenue mentioned above should be excluded from the revenue that is considered for the municipalities to calculate their own revenue, since the municipalities thus have considerable costs, i.e. through the editorial and municipal supervisory services. In March, the government then drafted its proposal for amendments to the law summarizing part of the amendments mentioned above and further proposed a revised method of recovery by tax procedure and harmonisation, as a result of a decision of the Constitutional Court, concerning the status of the previous Judges for Offences. The Internal Policy Committee then considered both laws to be the so-called hybrid law, which we agreed to at the LDS House of Members, since the essential problem that we have pointed out has been removed. However, we cannot agree with the solution that these revenues of the municipalities are not excluded from the accounts of their own revenue. The Government's arguments and the position that it is the right place to regulate these matters as a umbrella law on the financing of municipalities do not hold, as individual acts are also supposed to lay down specificities in relation to finance. Article 22 of the Law on the Financing of the Communities is in no way in breach, for this law merely states that the expenditure of the municipalities to finance spending is solely that of other acts. In this case, there is no illegality, and in this case it is totally unacceptable that municipalities have costs, maintenance of their editorial services, material costs and the like, and in the end the revenues derived from fines for offences are still deducted from their own revenues. Simply put, the logic is this: more than they collect a fine and recover, they receive less compensation from the country. That's illogical. We therefore propose that this amendment should be treated differently. The Liberal Democracy Club will support changes and additions to the Act on Offences, as they address major shortcomings that have so far not been logical, and they also regulate non-compliance with the Constitution. However, we hope that, after discussion and reflection, an amendment will also be adopted, which we are putting in place with regard to the exclusion from our own revenue.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u37	Thank you very much. I would like to take the floor with you, Mr Miran, to take the position of the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! The parliamentary group of Social Democrats will support the bill. We believe that the proposed solutions, which define in a clearer way the situation of the imposition of fines, are justified. We will also support the amendment proposed by the Liberal Democracy Group. It seems good for us that the municipalities that will obtain additional funds from fines under the new law, which are pronounced for offences committed by or by their authorities themselves, to take this into account with regard to the envisaged possibility of funding. We are pleased to note that the government does not agree that the funds and the volume of funding for the municipalities are not adequate, but it seems to us in this very fact that it is a formal excuse that this cannot be resolved in this law, as it would be necessary to regulate it. Finally, on the home work body we welcomed the proposal to ensure, in an appropriate manner, compliance with the constitutional decision relating to this law [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u39	I'm asking for peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u40	that the proposed solution is not the only possible and best, but the government and the government coalition, which considered this only possible, have also taken responsibility for the appropriateness of this solution. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u41	Thank you very much. He reiterated his invitation to Ambassador Mojco Kucler Dolinar to present the position of New Slovenia this time. I would ask Members and Members again, if it is so urgent to do something about it, I ask you to do this interview outside!
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u42	In the New Slovenia Group, we support the proposed amendments and additions to the Act on Offences. In Novi Slovenije we are and are committed to the exercise of the autonomy of municipalities, including financial autonomy, especially in those parts where new tasks are transferred from the state to the state, we need to know whether or not the state needs to find the appropriate criterion for letting part of the funds flow into the municipal budgets. This will also partially allow for the proposed amendment of the law on offences, as fines will be paid for offences imposed by any law, and legally pronounced by the criminal authorities of the local community, and will therefore be the income of those local communities whose authority will give them legal expression. In the case of Novi Slovenija, unlike some opposition parties, as was heard in the debate at the committee meeting, we do not take the view that this would be the main way to motivate the local community to sanction offences, although this is likely to be demonstrated in practice. Motivation for the action of the authorities, of any body, shall not be subject to fines for the purpose of filling the budget register, of any kind, state or municipal. Motivation must be in order to ensure that citizens and citizens are in a normal situation, i.e. to prevent illegal practices that interfere with the rights of others. Here, for example, I am thinking of the regulation of peaceful transport, public order, municipal supervision and other areas where the power of control and punishment is transferred to local communities. However, in the context of adopting amendments and supplementing this law, i.e. the Act on Offences, we cannot support the solution proposed both at the meeting of the parent body and with the amendment yesterday, in order to include an amendment in the Law on Offences a provision that the proceeds of fines are not taken into account in the calculation of their own revenue. We believe that this provision would exceed the framework of the provisions and the content of the offence law. This was also pointed out by the government and the legal and regulatory service. Of course, given the major financial problems that have plagued municipalities in recent years, especially smaller ones, it would be reasonable to consider and find an appropriate solution to how such fine-paid revenues should be dealt with in the context of the necessary amendments to the Law on the Financing of Communities already announced by the Government. As noted earlier, this is especially important for those congregations with financial standing. However, other proposed changes, such as the enforcement of fines or the enforcement of fines, are undoubtedly leading to a more effective system in the light of the existing law. The only thing that makes sense is that this will again become the jurisdiction of the tax authorities. In this way it will be swift and effective, which must be the purpose if the sanction has already been imposed. Above all, this method of enforcement, where it is more than a routine matter, will not further burden the executive departments of the district courts. According to some statistics for 2004, 61% of all outstanding enforcement cases are. Finally, it is the tax administration which already has adequate human resources and information support. With regard to the harmonisation of the existing law with the decision of the Constitutional Court concerning the regulation of the status of former judges or senior judges for offences, we believe that the proposal by the Government is the appropriate solution, which is also supported by the Council of Justice and is somehow the most objectively appropriate. The situation is not simple, regardless of the fact that we are actually solving only one case, because it is certainly extremely important for this person. In New Slovenia, however, it seems particularly important that this solution preserves the rights acquired, including pay [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] and therefore, as has already been said, we will support, as has already been said, the Government's proposal or amendments and the amendment of the offence law.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr Josip Bajc has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u44	Dear Mr Minister with co-worker, distinguished Mr Vice-President, colleagues and colleagues! The Members of the Group support the amended draft law on amendments and additions to the Act on Offences adopted by the mother's working body. Members of the parliamentary group are also pleased that there has been a coordinated proposal for amendments to the Act on Offences, which takes into account the fact that we have become full members of the EU, as well as that we will align this with the Constitutional Court's decision, as well as the opinion of the legislature of the National Assembly. With regard to the amendment of the LDS Group, we estimate that the Slovenian People's Party likes the amendment and its adoption would allow the rich to be even richer, poorer or small, and this amendment would bring virtually nothing. In the case of the Slovenian People’s Party, however, we do not object to the fact that the rich are even richer, but we oppose solutions that by law allow the differences between so - called large or small congregations or municipalities that receive financial compensation or those that are self - sufficient. We expect, as has already been promised by the government, that this area will be regulated by a system law, the real law on the financing of municipalities. With regard to further justifications, the Slovenian People's Party considers that the rules governing the field of editorial services in individual local communities are not intended to fill municipal budgets, but rather to regulate the field of peaceful transport in individual local communities. For this reason, the members of the Slovenian People's Party will adopt an updated proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on offences, but we will not support the amendment of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u45	Thank you, Mr. Bajc. As a last step, he will present the position of the Slovenian National Party, Mr Member Zmago Jelinčič Plemeniti.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u46	That's a nice hello to you all. The intent of the law is real. I think that things or changes make sense because they regulate some things that have not been settled before. However, in spite of this law, we will not support the Slovenian National Party for one simple reason, since Article 4 on the amendment of Article 202 mentions the so-called removal prison. We are in the Slovenian National Party against the removal prison. It is true that this is the consequence of, or the rest of, the law that he has brought under the United List of Social Democrats, Mr Bohinc, and he has established this prison in order to say, as they said at the time of Rankovich, to civilise and settle certain matters concerning certain disobedient people, because they will still have to pay the penalty after the prison. And if they don't get paid, they'll go back to prison. For this reason, we will not support this change of law. I think the removal prison indicates a complete takeover of police control over civilian life. The fact is that the law on public order and peace itself is a law that allows the police to control a large segment of Slovenian life, and we do not agree to such laws. In the Slovenian National Party, we are convinced that we are on our way to democracy, not on our way to the police country where the ZLSD wanted to take us with that law, and where it also pushes us with certain acts that remained from the then joint core of the police ministry. We therefore judge and hope that we will soon experience other amendments to some other laws that will remove from these meaningless acts a variety of things, such as removal prisons. What can we continue to expect? First the prison removal, then the prison beating. Thus, the police will already have powers such as they do not actually have anywhere, except in some countries, which we say are undemocratic. And that's why we're not going to support this change of law. Once again, we say that the desire of the law is real, that the changes that are in favour of the municipalities and local self-government are good, are smart, but as long as they remain in law, we can say that the former regime, which ruled for 12 years, in some cases for 50 years, is not going to be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u47	Thank you very much, Mr. Jelinčich. And, last but not least, Mr Willi Rezman, who will present the position of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u48	Thank you. Members of our delegation will be supported by law. We will also support the amendment for substantial reasons. We support the law because it is actually a proposal that could be named two in one because it summarises what the Group of Members has proposed, complements and improves. So the proposal as a whole is viewed as positive. However, we have serious concerns about not taking into account the proposal to exempt these fines from those own revenues which are not considered financial countervailing. While we support the law also because it will be one of the many steps needed to remedy the situation of the municipalities, as well as financial and other areas, but we cannot wait for the announced Law on Community Financing to be changed in a future that has not yet been determined. What exactly is the purpose of this proposal? The first objective or the first objective is to regulate the situation in order to reduce the number of offences, but since the offence law must also be sanctions, and there must be no special difference between sanctions in the local community or between sanctions in the country, sanctions and fines are fines. And we do not see a valid reason to respect the fines flowing into the state budget, but we would have doubts about the fines flowing into the municipal budgets. Even if such a law were adopted without an amendment, it would mean discrimination against smaller municipalities, those of those municipalities with financial standing. Members who speak of being richer then have no argument for such claims, for those richer municipalities already have no financial compensation and will not be reduced to fines, we know those who run the congregations and who know how the municipalities are being financed. Well, that's not an argument or it's a wrong argument. As regards the legislative and legal service's arguments, I asked personally at the meeting because it claimed that it was not the most appropriate place in this law, whether it might be inappropriate or not. There was no positive answer. So it's not like we're breaking anything, at least that's not the answer. As far as government arguments are concerned, the following are concerned. Article 22 of the Law on Community Financing is not an argument and has nothing to do with this. Perhaps Article 25 of the Law on the Financing of the Communities would have something to do with this, since it is explicitly stated there, what are those incomes that are not counted in their own revenue and are not listed. That could be a very clever reason. However, the government not only rejects this article 22 but also rejects it because it explicitly states "that its revenue in the state budget will be reduced." Thus, what we collect in the congregations should be in the state budget and what we have done should not remain in the congregation. And so this is not a valid argument. With regard to the working bodies or groups of Members who have spoken about making sure that the situation is settled rather than on the financial side, we must say that, of course, without funding, the situation is not being regulated. There is no such specific area, nor in the local community, which would be managed only with goodwill without financial and material support. And of course, when these same Members support the government proposal, they support the proposal that fines should be collected, only to escape into another account, while costs remain in local communities. Perhaps this is why some local communities do not enter editorial services because they are promised only costs, only wages, and they cannot expect any income from this area. Another argument was made on the working body that this proposal was supported by only seven mayors. Let me say that this is not an argument either, because it was silenced, but neither of the mayors was against it. So all those who wanted to say it expressed themselves positively; the others did not have this need to write it down. The DeSUS Group will therefore support the law and it considers it right to support the amendment proposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u49	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We're moving to second reading. I note that to date only one amendment has been tabled to the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on offences, namely the amendment of the LDS Club of Members, on 19.4.2005. The amendment is tabled in Article 2 to be added to the new second paragraph [[the text of the amendment or addition and the explanation before you, so that you would not read it according to practice]] . I am putting the amendment to this specific article into discussion. Anybody want to talk? Madam Ambassador Orazem, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u50	Thank you so much for saying that. I propose that we re-focus our attention on the amendment that has been tabled, which states that the income of local communities collected from fines is not taken into account in the calculation of the own revenues of the self-government local communities. Several arguments were put forward to challenge this. If you'll excuse me, I'll first talk about the first one if it's supposed to be in violation of Article 22 of the Law on Community Financing. This is not true, for this article does not refer anywhere to the fact that individual or other acts should not provide for a different method of distribution of income. On the contrary, this article, article 22, states that these other acts can regulate this differently from those of the Law on Community Financing. Thus, according to this logic, it means that this particular act is the law of transgression, the one who can arrange the matter differently. The second argument, which has been repeatedly challenged to date, is that this provision is, in fact, unfair mainly for those municipalities receiving financial compensation. I am disappointed by the logical opinion expressed by some, for once again, the more the congregation collects the fine, the more it is deducted, or the amount is deducted from its own income, and in this way it receives less resources from the state. That's the logic that stands, and I think it's really a ruse that we want to introduce ourselves in another way. In doing so, I would like to say, of course, that neither alone nor any member of the motioners has ever spoken and said anything about this being the way in which the local community is stimulated to collect fines. I don't think anyone's ever said that if you look at all the magnetograms, but we've stressed that municipalities have to be stimulated to actively implement regulations in their area, which they also have powers to implement. In this case, however, such stimulation is decreasing, since the municipality that does this has costs, costs are incurred by the editorial services, by municipal supervision, and material costs are incurred, and these costs are evident. The fines they receive for this purpose or intended to cover these costs in their work are later fully deducted from their own income. Of course, this operation, allowing, by this logic, is such that, in fact, it would have an impact exclusively on what is being said today, on poorer municipalities, but it is a completely neutral financial operation for municipalities that are self-financing, because there are revenues such as they are, in one way or another, appropriate or calculated their own consumption. This means that the rich will not be richer and poorer, but the rich will remain as rich as they are, and the poor will be poorer if this amendment is not adopted. Of course, it's very difficult to prove otherwise here, because each logic says: costs are incurred, municipalities have costs, they have editorial services, they have dressed editors, they have paper warfare, etc., as far as the costs are concerned, and these costs are evident, while what they would and would take away fines from these offences is automatically deducted and the possibility of deducting from their own revenue. In this way, the calculation cannot be made and certainly constitutes a negative financial balance for local communities. So I ask you to reconsider whether to help municipalities in some way, after all, according to our calculations of all these fines collected around 480 million in Slovenia, with one part of these fines certainly being among those fines collected by municipalities that are self-financing, while only part of these fines, which would go in some way to the negative financial burden of the country, is mainly a positive effect for smaller and poorer municipalities, but at a level that is significantly lower than 400 million. I therefore think that there will be no major financial damage for the country, but there will be one more incentive for smaller and poorer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr Barovic has already entered the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u52	Thank you very much. I will be very brief and more direct than my esteemed colleague. Look, the thing is very simple, because it's not about the poor congregation getting some money now, it's about us first hiring young new people, unemployed people -- we have a case in my congregation -- when we get a job. Another time. We're setting up a steady traffic. Third time. We're running traffic on local parts. Last but not least, we do what we should or could if we changed the law, the police paid for it. But we're doing it! And if we do this for gratitude, for the good of the local community, would they take it all away from us? That's not how it works! Let's be honest and once we say, "Okay, then let's put order in the internal ministry, let's let the cops do the whole thing in peace and other traffic and leave all the funding in local communities." The amendment proposed by Mrs Cveta Zalokar Orazem is aimed at order, to help the unemployed, to solve social situations, not least to find solutions that others will ever have to find. We will support it in the Slovenian National Party. And Mrs. Flowers Orazem rightly said, and let all those who are affected remember that.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Would anyone else like to discuss it? Mr. Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u54	I hope that on a rational level it is clear that there is no one here who would not understand what this is really about. It is, therefore, whether we will support the rapid development of municipalities and greater independence from the state budget or not. Surely some will be in doubt or at odds, at least those mayors and mayors who do not intend to support the amendment know that they should, but rather submit to party discipline; but this is not good for the municipalities and our citizens. So I ask you to think things properly and not properly of the client.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u55	Thank you, Mr. Rezman. Anyone else? So, I find that no one. Closing the debate and moving on to a decision on [[...]] [[ad from the bench.]] I'm sorry, we haven't seen it. [[...]] Would you like to comment, Minister? I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u56	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members and Members! Let me add an additional explanation of the amendment of the LDS Club of Parliament of 19.4.2005 in the context of the government's already-mentioned opinion. In view of the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the proposed law amending and supplementing the Act on Offences tabled by the Group of Members, it is assessed that the amendment of the LDS Club to Article 2 of the Government's proposal for a law is not justified. Since the same amendment has already been proposed at the meeting of the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice, we reiterate the reasons why we do not support it. Systemic vision first. The Law on Offences PP-1 sets out whose income is fines paid for a misdemeanour. How fines affect the financing of the municipal budget is not the subject of this law, which is the law on offences, but is governed by the law on the financing of municipalities. This provides that the revenue of municipalities to finance spending is also those determined by other acts. The reasons for such an arrangement, according to the Ministry of Justice, should be sought in the system-wide regulation of the comparable situation of municipalities, and therefore all the revenue that a municipality is to collect in its territory must be taken into account in the calculation of the financial compensation. Therefore, partial regulation of an individual source of funding could lead to a departure from such a system regime. Accountability is also worth the financial and budgetary aspects. According to the Government's opinion on the proposal for a Member law, the proposed amendment would mean that more resources are allocated from the State budget for financial compensation, while at the same time reducing the inflow of funds due to the fact that certain fines become the revenue of municipal budgets, while no additional or alternative financial resources are foreseen for the state budget. It is therefore justified to regulate the law on the financing of municipalities in order to take the fines into account as a source of funding for municipalities, even if they are essential for the infringement of certain cases of conduct that are established for some reason - that order is established in society. A different arrangement means that the municipality would receive certain funds twice, once as a fine, together with the costs of the infringement procedure and, secondly, in the form of financial compensation. On the other hand, the State would pay this twice, once by not receiving fines prescribed by its rules, and on the other hand by providing greater financial compensation.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u57	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Just an explanation to the honourable Member of Bajc. In fact, most people in this room are watching me, and that doesn't mean they want to talk. We usually express this desire by raising our hands, and I apologize if the minister raised his hand, but I didn't notice him; but I think he just looked at me, and I didn't interpret his view as a desire to speak. Mr Šteba, Mr Rezman and Mr Barovic joined the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Besides, I thought it was an explanation for the voice, but still. Look, my respectable colleague Bajc just said that the mayors were supposed to vote in a party discipline. [[Back-up advertising.]] Excuse me, excuse me! Excuse me!
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u59	Please! Peace in the hall! Only Mr. Steba has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u60	Excuse me, Mr. Bajc. I'm sorry, Mr Rezman said that. Look, it's an explanation and logic, as Mr. Secretary has just said. There's no way we can do laws on the spaghetti system, things have to be comprehensive and regulated in the laws they're in. To put it another way, my personal opinion is that the relic, or term, is an appropriate consumption, which takes data from some length of local roads and youth and the age of the municipality's population, is very controversial: it is also controversial in terms of the European Union's approach to how it somehow regulates the structure in individual areas. Our country should adopt similar methods and help those environments, to those municipalities with structural problems, to say more and less developed, such as infrastructure or other circumstances that place a heavy burden on municipal budgets. And I think that things need to be regulated in a new way, to think about these aspects, and to regulate things in the Systemic Law on Community Financing, I think, completely new. But that's certainly not the only problem. Of course, problems are also the social burden of municipalities, etc. Thus, my view is that we cannot support such an amendment and that matters should be properly regulated in order to do so by appropriate laws. Thank you. Once again, I apologize to Mr. Bajc.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u61	Thank you very much. We continue with the discussion of mayors, pardons, Members of Parliament. My word to Mr. Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u62	Thank you very much, again. First of all, with respect to Article 22, if I may replicate to the distinguished minister. However, Article 22 is not an argument. Article 22 also states that own revenues are to be compensated for the use of building land. I have a document with me, and we can look at it. As of 1999, substitutes for the use of building land have been accounted for by part of the resources in the state budget, and part of it in the municipal budget due to the famous calculation base that someone has invented against which I am protesting, but now that is true and what is true, I must also respect it, although I do not like it. The same is true of relics that, as was said, are in certain laws. As long as they're legal, so must we. And there's no exception here. Even if we disagree with something and if it is legal, we must respect it, or we must stop referring to ourselves as a rule of law. And the third thing. I haven't mentioned any party discipline. Look at the magnetogram, Mr. Stebe, I asked you specifically to think "ad ren" and not "ad client."
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u63	Thank you very much. According to my record, Mr Barovic applied again.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u64	Thank you very much. I do not wish to delay, but indeed, I am responding first to the words of the distinguished Minister and also yours. Look how sometimes it comes in handy. The Slovenian national party has made no clear how many times, I think three times, it has passed a law on the incompatibility of the parliamentary and mayoral functions. At the time they laughed, I liked your joke, today you'll hear what you're saying as mayors, because you're Members and you have to watch the law. First proof we're right. Second proof. When we tabled a proposal, the comparison was just in the Minister's words, when we tabled the amendment of the law to amend the law on Members, the official institution said, "No, this is not a matter of the law on Members, but it is a matter of the law on, I don't know, local self-government." When we made a change there - no, it's not a matter of local self-government, it's a thing I don't know which law. We've heard the same thing now from the well-respected minister. We're talking about one law - it says, "No, we can't regulate it in this law, we have to regulate it in another law." I mean, let's be serious for once! Now we've caught ourselves in a trap for as long as we're in here, you can see exactly that we were right. We're always looking for some kind of marriage because it doesn't belong to this one, it's the law when we want to change it, no, it's the law. But today the truth has proved itself, and today this truth has proved to be true! Last but not least, who's doing the job, who's doing the job? Okay, if you want to keep it that way, let it be, then let the cops do their job, because they're paid for it and that's why they're there. And we will not do this and there will be no harm.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mrs. Orzmova.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u66	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Lovro Sturm spoke very quietly and it was difficult to hear it, but he confirmed what I believe is essential to this amendment. In particular, he said that if this amendment was adopted, more resources would have to be allocated to the municipalities from the state budget for compensation. He thus confirmed the logic that I am advocating, which, of course, we are on opposite shores. However, some colleagues and colleagues wanted to prove with some logical acrobatics that it was a different logic. Minister, I hope he made this clear enough in his words, but he was very quiet. The other thing I want to say is this. What my colleague Barovic says is true. The police have fully withdrawn from the regulation of peaceful traffic from Slovenian towns and other municipalities, the police of peaceful traffic no longer regulate and you will not see them very soon, it is quite rare to take action on this. This matter has remained, and the country has probably moved, with some arguments, to the municipalities and, of course, the municipalities are forced to establish order in this area if they want to establish order in their territory, to employ more and more editorial and other services that will establish it for the benefit of all citizens and citizens. My dears, if we have given them this or have you charged us if you are saying that - and I think there is nothing wrong with it, I am not ashamed of representing local interests in Parliament, I am not ashamed of it if someone is ashamed, I think it is bad for him and it is not good. Local interests are legitimate and at the local level we take more than half of what most citizens and citizens face every day in their lives. I don't think that's a bad thing. And a local, waste, healthy drinking water, transport and the like, I think it is also for the benefit of all citizens and citizens. And if I repeat, so if all the regulation of peaceful traffic is now on our local, municipal shoulders, if you want, then it seems fair to me that the municipalities are not being punished or that the state does not serve this account. And in this case, it serves because it refuses and costs it. This is the logic we represent in the event that such an amendment is not accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u67	Thank you. Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u68	Thank you very much. Just for a little while. We will not support this amendment in New Slovenia. Although the LDS proposal at first sight is very attractive - I don't know if it's so good, why they didn't implement it when you had this option - and the Minister's arguments are very strong. I don't know if you've listened to them very carefully. All arguments mean some starting point, equality before the law for all congregations. And something else, if you base development and employment in municipalities based on violations and fines for offences, then it is certainly the wrong direction and the citizens of the local government do not choose to punish and cash them, but rather to regulate and help them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u69	Thank you. Mr. Bones.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u70	Thank you very much. When I saw this amendment on the board, I was very impressed. In fact, I have seen a remarkable change in the thinking of some Members, including the mayors of the previous coalition structure. After I realized what this amendment meant, however, it meant, in fact, the patch to the death wound imposed by the previous coalition to the congregations by adding constant tasks and bringing them into the situation they are in. Therefore, I believe that this amendment is indeed pure politics and a cheap redemption for the situation in which the previous coalition of the congregation ruled. That's a fact. And that's why I think it's very dangerous to support this amendment. For the first time is misleading, and for the second time, it can only mean putting aside the systemic solution that needs to be done in financing the municipalities, because everyone will be able to say, "We have done something," and we have done nothing with this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u71	Thank you. Mr. Barovich. I'm just warning you, there's no replica, but it's a debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u72	Well, look, I would be very happy if respected colleagues on the other hand would say this to two people who were unemployed, young, and I hired them to make order, to work order, to get paid, to live off of it. On the order that I received it, I, as mayor - now I will indeed speak as mayor - for making the order, I have employed, thank God, two young unemployed and I will pay and also make the order and help the country - instead of others. If this is politics, come and tell them! If it's politics!
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u73	Thank you. Mr. Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u74	Thank you very much. So, I think it's pure demagogy if someone supports that the mayors want to develop their municipalities in a way that deepens people. Because if that's the case, then let's just say it's not a fine for a misdemeanor! Then it's demagogy if you propose a law that expects fines to go into the state budget. So let's give up the subject! That's how the most electoral votes are going to be, you know, if we don't punish anyone, they're all going to break, you're not going to blame anything here, and it's going to be settled. But that's not how things can be handled in society! Those of us who know as much as we do how things happen in society, of course we cannot land in this way. And second. Yesterday it was said here - I will not say from which mouth - how we must first admit sin that we will be able to eliminate it. I also agree with this - let's admit it was a mistake, and let's fix it. And let's not tell ourselves who did it, it's not an alibi for us not to fix it.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mr. Blackach.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u76	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! I think that at this relatively insignificant point, where this is not so important, we are opening a very broad question and it would be very inappropriate to deal with it in this way - and this is a question of the community funding system. The situation we have is not the result of the work of this government, but it is the result of what has been adopted in the past eight or twelve years. We all probably agree that the funding and provision system is not adequate, but with some such amendment as it is now, we will not change or regulate it. The beginning of solving this problem, which is of a systemic nature in this way, would mean a very poor journey to those who are professionally engaged and intend to settle it in such a way as to ensure the needs of all those who rightly expect it. I therefore believe that this debate is unnecessary and that the government will draw up appropriate systemic solutions that will regulate this inadequate system of funding for municipalities, which we have inherited from the past. Again, it would be very inappropriate for us to begin to regulate this subject in the way that some of you have handled it today in this place, with some amendments in the criminal law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Interestingly, there was not such a lively debate in international treaties that were primacy over domestic law; a little bit of a joke, really. Mr. Bajc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Chairman. In addition to the presentation of the Slovenian People's Party's position on the amendment, I would add my thinking. I myself led an eight - year - old congregation, so I know how to finance. However, I do not think that this way of regulating the unregulated area of funding and providing funds to municipalities to carry out their basic tasks is a systemic solution. Like, I think the colleague mentioned earlier a so-called compensation for the use of building land. I would ask some questions as to why we are not there - since some municipalities should even receive more compensation for the use of building land than they pick it up. And what happens? For that difference, their so-called appropriate consumption is reduced. As soon as possible, amendments and additions to the Law on the Financing of Communities should be made, and the Law on Offences should govern what is governed by the Law on Offences, not that it is a source of funding or, I will say, a correction of certain errors in the Law on the Financing of Local Communities.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u79	Mrs. Orzmova.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u80	I will no longer argue with my amendment, but I would like to say that I think my colleague has completely invented that I have, in any way, expressed myself in relation to the replacement of building land, so that he can speak, I think of something that is not the subject of today's debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u81	Mr. Dr. Slavinac. Please, please, calm down. Dr. Slavinec has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u82	Thank you so much for saying that. I stopped by, even though I'm not the mayor, but I was encouraged by the representation of local interests. Nor do I see any problem in representing local interests, as each of us comes from a region, and in this particular case I have felt that local interests are different; [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] similar, if not identical, so that from this title, of course, all those who have represented as mayors of most of these interests, of course, you have also represented the interests of the wider community and the state. [[..]] So, my view is that the state is really imposing more obligations on the municipalities and, on the other hand, it does not compensate for those rights which would result from this. In particular, financial rights and balances are at stake. This is certainly the reason why it is necessary to revise the way in which appropriate consumption is calculated, since it is no longer in line with the actual situation and needs. Therefore, the right solution is certainly systemic, broad, so that we do not continue to extend this increase of obligation, but it can certainly be helped by the proposed amendment in at least one area, and this should then be the beginning of a broader debate and debate, and of course the preparation of such a law, which will be more justly financed or guaranteed to all members of this country, to all citizens, regardless of which region they come from, more equitable conditions and more equal opportunities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mr. Janc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u84	Thank you very much, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues! I, too, am the mayor and the Member of Parliament, Comrade Barovic, and I have no problem with that if you have them, then you can get out as mayor tomorrow, no problem. That's one fact. Secondly, I will say: as the mayor of the second term, I find - and these are accurate data - that the Slovenian municipalities are heavily undernourished. The system will need to handle this. The new government has promised to solve this. The Ministry of Local Self-Government and Regional Development is preparing one step for this work, contrary to solving it for all Slovene municipalities. Municipal municipalities have special status, non-urbans have different status, lice have special status. They're all in bloody need of funding from the state. The former governments imposed new and new obligations on local communities without money. Family assistant - I asked Minister Drobnič how it was. This is a huge new burden on Slovenian municipalities, which comes to every Slovene municipality. How they're going to handle this from local budgets, I don't know. However, I know that we will be able to respect the decisions, the law imposed by the state, and therefore I am primarily the one who, after preparing the amendments to the law by the Slovenian municipalities, will insist that this be regulated systematically, I repeat. This partial, in a way, to solve through the side door, I find it distasteful, inappropriate. At this point, I will say, even as the mayor and Member of this amendment, I will not support it. However, I will support when a comprehensive matter comes to Parliament by the Government of the District Ministers and we will resolve matters that have accumulated unsettled in the Slovenian municipalities for years and that they literally live or even no longer have for those current obligations of budgetary consumers such as pre-school education, home care, etc. Not to mention any investments that some congregations no longer have. That is why, my colleague Barovič, I will support this issue when we systematically arrange for all Slovene municipalities and small municipalities with 3,000 000 inhabitants. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u85	Thank you very much. I see it's that saying, "When it goes, it goes well." Dr. Lakhovnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u86	Of course, I also apologize because I'm not a Member, but I'm an economist, and I have to say, I don't think that makes sense. [[...]] [[Note from the bench.]] I mean, I'm not. Thank you very much. I'm sorry. [[...]] Sometimes I feel like there's more to the debate here than there is to what Members should be discussing. But that's another thing. I mean, actually, I'm not the mayor myself, but as an economist, I can say this if, of course, he holds the case and he insists that the state, through financial compensation, collects the proceeds from this title, from the fines indirectly, and passes the costs on to the municipalities, then of course that's not economically logical. Each balance sheet has two sides and says that the net effect is picked up if it is already picked up or left behind, if it is left behind and of course it is not logical. Those arguments that are present here today, when you could have arranged it, I don't know when, 12 years ago, of course, because it has already been pointed out that the law is valid since the 1st year and is what it is. Of course, it's even more arrogant that you say that, because 12 years ago we could have arranged it, but why is it necessary to do it so quickly today? Of course, it is clear that if the problem arises, we are discussing it openly, today the arguments and counter-arguments have been presented and it is basically a very simple fact that an amendment that is meaningful is to be supported for substantive reasons. If it makes sense and it's explained. Of course, instead we can say that we're not going to do this today, we're going to be somewhere in the future, integrally, which reminds me of that lady from Szczuka, but not when she said, "Just not today." That's the logic. We'll do it another time, but not today. Why not today if it's meaningful? I don't know what you're afraid of if some amendment that's constructive is also proposed by the opposition, why don't we support it, because, last but not least, we're all in favour of regulating the situation, the visas of local governments, depending on the state and the fact that we're somehow rewarding those who have good governance in this country, but not the fact that the one who manages the peaceful traffic that has the order set out in this title is, of course, also collecting certain fines, and is being punished by the state. This is the only question of whether you will be supported or supported by a coalition or by any other cylindrical machine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u87	Thank you. Mr. Juban.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u88	Thank you very much, Chairman. I must say, by my own token, this debate amuses me. When we adopted this arrangement, which today is the debate when our government proposed this solution, there was an interesting debate here that some of those who today strongly oppose this solution, which is in this amendment, were talking when we went to see how unacceptable it was for the State to pass on to the congregations some tasks for which it did not provide funds. The new government, which was also with us, foretold that it would create new and more just conditions for the operation of the congregations. I think that's one step in this direction. With all due respect and seriousness to Minister Žagar, who has worked hard and has visited many congregations or regions with even some ministers, this is a constant emphasis; such solutions should be introduced concerning congregations that will be more just and favourable to the functioning of the congregations. And it is interesting or, as I said at the outset, amusing this discussion, how some now no longer want to know about the more favourable and just conditions of the congregation’s operation. Whatever it is, it's one of the steps. The next one we'll have to take care of, I think, disabled people, it's a social law, I don't remember what it's called, which is also one of the steps, and we'll see how it goes. One, apparently, you must even withdraw your signatures under this law. Indeed, it must be respected that there is more discipline in this government than it was in the past, but despite everything, now it is that we see ourselves: what we have spoken and what we will do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u89	Thank you. Mr. Rezman. It's not necessary if you don't want to.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u90	Yes, I would, however, like to say that because Mr Bajc has linked the compensation for the use of the building land with Mrs Orazmova, I have been talking about this. Let me say again, by 1999 all the building land remained to the municipalities and was not counted as the quota on which the financial compensation was regulated. Since then they've made up - the former government, no one will think [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] I criticise by government - they invented a calculated basis that has no explanation. [[..]] The parishioners do not have a written explanation of how this is going, and that was unfair, but this is in Article 22 of the Financial Equalisation Act. And because it was unfair, I referred to the protests in writing to the previous government and to the current government. And I think this is a mistake, but we need to deal with it whenever we can and do not just wait for systemic arrangements, for today we are not doing this to forgive any sins, today we are reimposing to the congregations something, some expense and some task for which there is no financial compensation. So now we want to avoid being burdened by new systems of funding for the municipalities.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u91	Thank you. Mr. Mikolitch.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Mrs Orazem gave financial details as to what this meant, and she would quite agree with that. This is about 400 million, or 200 million for those who do not have a financial settlement. This means specifically for my congregation, say, about 300,000 tolars or 500 thousand tolars a year. I have to say, I'm not selling for this 500 grand today, so I'm not voting for an amendment. For I am a little surprised that it is by those Members or those congregations that do not have a financial settlement, but are self-financing, that amendment has come. And you can't actually comfort us with that. However, I firmly believe that if this was adopted today or if it was accepted, all newspapers will write tomorrow about how the national assembly today solved the congregation’s financial problems. I'll vote against the amendment myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u93	Thank you. Mr. Germich.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u94	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. So when we listened to the opening remarks by the Prime Minister, we heard a very nice message that when dealing with certain issues, it would not be so important who would propose any change, but that the adoption of an initiative would depend primarily on the quality of the proposal. Today's debate, which I think is very well reinforced with arguments, would be linked to a similar case that we met on the Health Committee when we talked about the Health and Health Insurance Act, where we also wanted to set up a case. And the discussion was actually similar to this one. We know that the problem is, the solution is the right one, but we're not going to fix it for a simple reason, because we're going to deal with it through a systematic approach. Of course, I find such logic quite contrary to regulating content with good suggestions. However, I think that there are more than enough arguments in this proposal to support this amendment. Of course, the problem is, above all, something else - the proposaler is not true, and as a result, this proposal will not receive support today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u95	Thank you. Mr. Brenčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u96	Thank you so much for saying that. Well, the purpose of this amendment certainly works in a positive way. However, if we look at it a little bit more plastic, it works whether or not the municipality is receiving compensation. The fact is, for example, that the income from these fines, if we take the city municipality of Ljubljana, where we all know how much it survives from parking, is as great as it is, so that it may be seriously considered, which is also not justified by the state budget, that only fines are in some sense taken into account to some extent in their own revenue. It doesn't matter what environment we're somehow putting this amendment into practice. On the other hand, for my part, he is certainly good, at least as far as these congregations are concerned, which are slightly less virtuous financially than others. However, if we transfer this to Ljubljana alone and those who have already paid a fine several times for a towed car, the situation is quite different, as well as the starting of a municipality, let us take Vrhnika, I don't know, Lenart, Sežana, even smaller municipalities must also invest large funds in the provision of parking lots. However, it is impossible to market these parking lots, while one Ljubljana, and one major city, this very good market and the situation is quite different. Thus, from the economic point of view of which Dr. Matthew spoke a little earlier, the sense of this amendment is deliberately very questionable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u97	Thank you. Mr. Mag. Squeak.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u98	I'll be in economics now. As you know, I am not the mayor, but today I do not want to be an MP, given the debate. I have to tell Mr Brenčič that he took the wrong case completely. This does not apply at all to Ljubljana, because Ljubljana is self-financing and is neutral in Ljubljana. In the municipalities, which are recipients of financial compensation - and, of course, in the last decade, we have made quite some effort on this subject - this amendment is, of course, very logical because it encourages these municipalities to regulate peaceful traffic, that fines are their revenues. However, Members who today have argued so vehemently that they will wait for the system law, let me quote from the government's website on the local self-government's new law on the financing of municipalities what this law says. The law says he won't even handle it. The law will only increase the possibility that congregations will be in debt, and because of your failure to accept this amendment, it will cause greater problems, of course, for those congregations to be even more indebted. Therefore, I must say that I regret that, as you are saying here, you will not support the logical amendment that encourages the one who collects fines so that it does not hit him on the other side of the balance sheet, and you will wait for the system law, and by this system law you will support the Minister for Local Self-Government, in spite of the fact that the Minister for Finance cares for someone, let's say, public financial stability, will allow for greater indebtedness of Slovenian municipalities. So, ladies and gentlemen, look at the system law you are waiting for and then decide whether you will support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u99	Thank you. Again, Mr. Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u100	Thank you. Look, now I'm going to show you one last time, a little plastic. The objective of this government is correct: to reduce consumption. It's a plastic case. Miha, Miha, did not sit at home and get 48 thousand dollars to sit at home from the country, but came to work for the congregation through public works and earned his salary. After six months, Micah worked three months on a trial basis and earned his own salary, plus the double benefit, was not unemployed, did not sit at home, did not steal state money, and was working order instead of state. And not the last time he was employed, because he proved that he was paying himself, he got a trainee. The municipality saved the country 14 months of state money for the week with this Miho. And this is supposed to be a waste of state money now! Gentlemen, let's watch some real stuff, because we don't just take it to work! Man only earned money through public works, earned it, didn't sit home and get money like many. Another time. He was on probation for three months, got the minimum wage he deserved. And the third time, he had to do his internship. It's a savings to the government. And please don't say things like that we've just heard, and be smart, take a good look at this amendment and you'll see. We cannot give everything to the country and to the country and to the countries to do nothing to those who sit at home. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u101	Good thing Mr. Micah's not here because I'm sure he'd like a replica. That's it. I think that we can conclude the debate and move on to decision-making. And with a heavy heart, I ask if anyone would like to explain his voice? Unbelievable! Nobody! And we begin by voting on the amendment of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. I note that 78 Members and Members were present, with 31 votes against 45. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 45.]] The amendment has not been accepted. We are thus moving on to the third reading of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on offences. I am concluding the second reading and since no amendments have been adopted in the second reading to the amended proposal, it is not possible to table amendments in the third reading, so we are moving on to a decision on the law. In doing so, I inform you that the legislature or the government has not informed me that the law would be inconsistent. Anybody want to explain their voice? No, no, no. So we're voting on the bill. I note that 73 Members and Members were present and 68 votes against 1. [[The vote was 68.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposal for a law on amendments and additions has been adopted. And at this point, on the proposal of the parent working body [[...]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]] Please kindly, we have another decision on the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on offences, a reduced procedure. [[...]] The proposer is a group of Members and Members with the first signed Cveto Zalokar Orazem, not suitable for further consideration. Anybody want to explain their voice? [[No, no, ……]] Let us also vote on this decision of the parent working body. Thank you. I note that 61 Members and Members attended, 51 votes against 1. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against one.]] I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the 18th item of the agenda- mandate-voluntary matter. I'm sorry, we're moving on to 17. It's a day's work. We have confirmation of the official cleansing of the law, namely the Road Traffic Safety Act. I assume there's no one here who wants to explain their voice. [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. Thank you. 60 present, 59 Members and Members voted against none. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] We're moving to 18. It's a day's work. I'm handing the baton over to my colleague, Vice President Pecchet.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u102	Good day to you, too, on my behalf. The National Assembly is moving on to 18. It's a day's work, mind-blowing. Under this item, the National Assembly will consider two proposals by the Judicial Council for the election in judicial office, the proposal by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for the appointment of the Attorney General of the Republic of Slovenia, the proposal by the Council of the Foundation for the financing of disability and humanitarian organisations in the Republic of Slovenia on the consent to the early resolution of the Director of the Foundation, and will further consider the proposal for a mandate-holder commission, namely, the proposal for a decision on the composition and appointment of the President, the Vice-President and the members and alternate members of the Board of Inquiry of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for the determination and assessment of the actual situation, which may be the basis for deciding on the political responsibility of the holders of public functions in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Ministry of Justice and the Supreme Prosecutor of the Republic of the Republic of Slovenia for the enforcement of the supervision of the Public Prosecutor's Law, for the amendment of legislation and for other decisions in accordance with the constitutional powers of the National Assembly. Secondly, Kranj District Attorney's Office is requesting a criminal prosecution permit against a Member of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. We will also consider under point 18 the proposal for a decision by the SDS Parliamentary Group on the discharge and appointment of the President of the Committee of the National Assembly of RS for Culture, Education and Sport. We are moving on to a debate on individual proposals. As I said in the introduction, we will discuss and decide on the proposals for decisions on election to judicial office, namely: The Council of Justice submitted two proposals for election to the National Assembly in the judicial capacity of the two District Judges in the District Court in Maribor and in Ptuj. The meeting is attended by the Secretary of the Judicial Council, Mr Bojan Brezigar. The proposal addressed the Commission's mandate-holder as the working body and submitted proposals for conclusions to the assembly. Given that there are no applications for debate, we are moving on to a decision on individual proposals. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u103	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I have to admit, I haven't even been paying attention to the material before, so you might as well blame me for it. But now that I have read this material of the judiciary, I am confused by the fact that one of the candidates at the beginning of the page wrote that she graduated from the Faculty of Law in Maribor on 9.4., and the paragraph below reads "the candidate finished her law school in Ljubljana with an average rating". I'm kind of not getting along. If that's the case, then I won't be able to vote, and I will abstain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u104	I think it would be an appropriate time and space for your observation on the parent's working body. Therefore, this time, I will not take your procedural proposal into account and we will continue in the expected scenario. Unless he wants a representative, the Secretary of the Council of Justice to speak on this subject as well? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u105	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I have to say, there's actually been a mistake here and it's basically a lapsus. I think it's a candidate for Katja Rožič, and I would just like to ask you to consider that there's been a press error here. I don't think this should affect the decision-making process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u106	Thanks for the explanation. I believe that the explanation has been sufficiently correct and that we can go to the vote without hindrance. Given that there is no application for a debate, we are moving on to a decision on individual proposals for conclusions. First of all, I am putting to the vote a motion for a decision on the election to the judicial function of Mrs Katje Rožič to the District Court in the District Court of Maribor. What I'm asking is, does anyone want to explain their voice? If we don't, we're going to the vote. We're voting. There were 55 Members present, 54 members voted against by one Member. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. I am voting on a second motion for a decision, namely to elect Ms Bernarda Galun as Judge of the District Court in the District Court of Ptuj. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present. 46 Members and Members voted against 8. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. We move on to the second proposal for a term of election, namely the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to appoint the Attorney General of the Republic of Slovenia. Proposals for consideration by the Council were submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which proposes to appoint Mrs Barbara Brezigar as State Attorney General of the Republic of Slovenia. Does the government want an introductory explanation? Given that I do not see the interest or the representative of the government, we will unfortunately have to let that part go. The proposal considered the Commission's mandate-holder as the working body of the mother. I give the text to my colleague, Franz Sušnik, for the presentation of the report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u107	Thank you very much. A well-respected choir. On the basis of Article 17 of the Law on State Prosecution, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia a proposal to appoint Barbara Brezigar, born 1.12.1953, as the Attorney General of the Republic of Slovenia, for the period of 6 years, who fulfils the formal conditions laid down in the Act on the State Prosecutor's Office. The President of the National Assembly forwarded the proposal to the Commission on Elections. It follows from the proposal submitted that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, pursuant to Article 17, paragraph 2, of the Law on the Prosecution at its 18th regular meeting on 7 April 2005, has adopted a decision to propose to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to appoint Barbara Brezigar as the Attorney General of the Republic of Slovenia. The decision was adopted on the basis of the previous opinion of the Minister of Justice. The proposal shall be accompanied by a series of documents certifying that the proposed candidate fulfils the formal conditions in accordance with the provisions of the State Prosecutor's Office Act. The Act on the State Prosecutor's Office in Article 17, paragraph 1, provides that he shall appoint the State Prosecutors of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on a proposal from the Minister of Justice, and paragraph 2 of the same Article shall provide that, irrespective of the provisions of the first paragraph, the Attorney General of the Republic of Slovenia shall appoint the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for a period of six years, with the possibility of re-appointed. In accordance with the provisions of Article 19 of the Public Prosecutor's Act, the Office of the Attorney-General shall designate the office of the Attorney-General under the official responsibility of the Ministry of Justice. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia's proposal to appoint the Attorney General of the Republic of Slovenia was discussed at the seventh meeting on 14 April 2005. The proposal was further substantiated by the representative of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and stressed that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is proposing Brezigarje because it fulfils the formal conditions, the candidate with rich professional and managerial skills and experience, knows the functioning of the prosecutor's organisation and has submitted a good programme to the candidacy. In the debate, representatives of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia and the Socialist Group of Members expressed their concern about the appropriateness of the proposal to appoint Brezigareva as the Attorney General of the Republic of Slovenia, or expressed their opinion that the proposal was not appropriate in terms of the political functioning of the proposed candidate in the past. They considered that it was an attempt to politicise the prosecution, as the proposed candidate in the past contributed significantly to the creation of a political space. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia would be obliged, in their view, to propose a politically less engaged candidate. Taking into account the above-mentioned Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia and the Social Democrats, they cannot support the proposal. Following the conclusion of the debate, the Commission's mandate-making committee shall be by a majority of the votes identified. [[12 for and 6 for]] formed a proposal for a decision appointing the Attorney General of the Republic of Slovenia, appointing Barbara Brezigar as Attorney General of the Republic of Slovenia for a period of six years. Allow me to summarise - the election commission of the National Assembly proposes to the National Assembly that, on the basis of Article 17 of the State Prosecutor's Act and Article 112 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a decision be taken on the appointment of the Attorney General of the Republic of Slovenia, as submitted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u108	Thank you for your position. I see you'd like to make a procedural proposal, Comrade Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u109	Mr. Vice President, a procedural proposal. We believe that it is unacceptable that there are no government representatives at such an important point in the agenda, which is being written today by all media. Mr Vice-President, in the work programme itself, it was envisaged that the government would provide an additional explanation. It is one of the most important functions in this country's governance system and it is unacceptable that a government representative has not taken enough time to come and present what the government thinks about it. I also say this because I do not know how it will be possible to hold a debate. Who are we having a discussion with? With you? With empty chairs? Or with government representatives? I don't know if you'll make sure that the candidate comes, as we did a year ago, for some candidates for important functions, what we believe in a particular area, or whether we will discuss its programme through a document where, say, the candidate says that the reputation of the state prosecutor should be taken care of. What the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is doing, not even coming to present a candidate - this is a matter of the national assembly and you to ensure that the candidate is here - does not exactly raise the reputation of the State Prosecutor's Office. You are turning us into a letter to the government, at which we are discussing, in the absence of key actors, government representatives and candidates, someone who should be placed on one of the most important functions, where we are then in the very document to be supported today on the basis of a programme presented by Members and Members, whether we will support or not. Therefore, I propose that you set a time limit in which a government representative, the competent Prime Minister, is present, is very clear in Article 235, who can participate in the government in the National Assembly, and that you also ensure the presence of a representative or candidate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u110	In view of the procedural proposal, as we discussed earlier, Comrade Squeakle, I agree with you in every way. I also personally assess that there is a need for government representatives to be present or, on some basis, proposers to be present on an important matter, such as decision-making at a given time, i.e. the appointment of the Attorney General of the Republic of Slovenia. However, I do not think that it is necessary in the way you have discussed under your procedural proposal. Given that I have already told you that I will accept your procedural proposal, because I also agree with it in substance, I think you have made little use of the procedure, because the fact is that you have also talked about the content. On the content, all Members, or all those who have been declared, and these are all Members, will also be able to tell their own. In view of my return to the procedural proposal itself, I will also order a 15-minute recess on the basis of Rule 73 of the Rules of Procedure, thus suspending the work of the National Assembly and in the meantime trying to lead or professional colleagues [[...]] [[May I ask that Members of the Parliament not leave the meeting until I have finished their work?]] - obtain a government representative who will answer the questions raised in a compatible manner. [[...]] Given that I will not allow a debate on procedural proposals, at least not on this, Comrade Sok, I will not give you my word, but I will interrupt the meeting in 15 minutes. We'll resume at 1:40. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u111	We will continue the meeting of the National Assembly. Please attend the plenary session. Thank you. Before the official work, my colleague Franz Kangler warned me about the lapsus I had made. All those in the lobby: we will not yet vote, we will only have a debate. In short, I replace the word "vote" with "debate." Thank you, Comrade Kangler. We continue with the adjourned session by discussing the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to appoint the Attorney General of the Republic of Slovenia. On a proposal from the Liberal Democracy Club of Members concerning the provision of a government representative, we ordered a 15-minute recess. In doing so, I inform you, which you may have noticed yourself, that Minister Lovro Sturm has joined us. I think that this meets not only the conditions, but also the substantive criteria for the continuation of the sitting. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The first position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by mag. Borut Saiovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u112	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. Greetings also to the representative of the government, Mr Minister, and to the few Members and Members of Parliament! In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we recognise candidates to meet the formal conditions for this occupation, for each country, and especially for citizens and citizens of an important and very responsible position. The objective of each regulated democratic state is to have a competent and sovereign state prosecutor's organisation. So in a way that all citizens are equal, regardless of their attitudes and political views. Thus, the political independence of the State Prosecutor's Office in its recommendation No 19 also recommends the Council of Europe. Unfortunately, in our House of Members, we are convinced that the election of Mrs Barbara Brezigar does not guarantee such independence. Barbara Brezigar is a clearly shaped political person who, despite his constant claim that he is a non-party person, cannot hide his client definitions. After all, Mrs Brezigar was the Minister of Justice in the so-called Bajuk government, as well as in previous presidential elections, she ran with the express support of the current authorities. In addition, Barbara Brezigar was involved in affairs and actions that clearly show us that she is ready for her political career and for the benefit of her political friends to conceal the basic principles of her profession. This was her conduct as a prosecutor in the case of Depal you when she actually prevented the clearance of this notorious and unacceptable military intervention in the civil sphere. From the time of her ministry, we can mention her outrageous delay in publishing the decision of the Venice Commission concerning our electoral system, as well as her legacy, when her post was terminated. The public prosecutor's office. At that time, about one hundred unregistered audit reports from the former SDK regarding the ownership of companies owned by society were to be found in her prosecutor's closet. Some of the writings from the time of her leadership of the Ljubljana Prosecutor's Office were also found surprisingly in the closet of the indignant Mr. Miran Železnik, who was appointed head of the economic department by Mrs Barbara Brezigar. Otherwise, it is also possible to find the names of prominent members of today's government in the documents found by Mr Železnik. We fear that after client-motivated personnel clearances in the ministries, in the police, in the military, in the public administration and in the economy, it is now the turn of prosecutors. Tomorrow, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, it's going to be the media on Friday, and in time, it's going to be the judges. We are equally concerned by the fact that in this country, which also has, according to the programme's emphasis, respected candidates among the state prosecutors are abounding with competent and professional people who are not supposed to have a real chance of finding out of all of these no one who dares to run for this city. Thus, with its planned politicisation of key positions in the state authorities, the government is clearly systematically dissuading politically independent experts from running, as they know that the ruling coalition is acting on the principle of 'no matter what you know, what is important is that you are ours' or that the most important criterion is that, as we have heard more recently, you are conceptually compatible with the new authorities. Interesting term. The role of the Attorney General should enjoy broad confidence. With the proposal to appoint Barbara Brezigar as the country's first prosecutor, the ruling coalition has shown that, of course, countries do not understand as common property all citizens and citizens, but as their own ruling elite.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u113	Thank you for presenting the position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Here comes a presentation of the position of the Socialist Group of Members. Comrade Run, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! As part of the judiciary, the State Prosecutor's Office is an important independent state body. Her primary task is to prosecute the perpetrators of crimes. Prosecutors of the State shall carry out their duties on the basis of the Constitution and the law. The state's attorney's office is permanent. Notwithstanding these constitutional principles and legal provisions, the role and position of the state-indicator organisation differs in many ways from the rest of the judiciary. It is particularly different from the fact that in appointing state prosecutors, the government has a far greater role to play, that the competent minister has important powers to regulate matters of the State Prosecutor's Order and that, in particular, the Attorney-General has a much more important role than in other judicial bodies in ensuring the effectiveness of the State Prosecutor's Organisation, as well as in the selection of senior staff, that he is a disciplinary prosecutor throughout the organization, to supervise the State Prosecutor's Office and to give general guidance on the uniform application of laws and the labelling of law enforcement policies to all state prosecutors. The adoption of the State Prosecutor's Office Act has therefore led to much debate on the situation of independence and independence of the state prosecutor's organisation. While the solutions point out that state prosecutors operate only within the framework of the Constitution and the laws and cannot be disciplinaryly responsible for the work they are taking on the case, the solutions in the law also allow for the strong influence of the Minister and the Attorney General on the specific conduct of the prosecutors. And the need for such a role as Minister and Attorney General to act as Prosecutors of State is highlighted in particular by members of the Government Coalition and the Slovenian National Party. A commission of inquiry is also being prepared and will be decided on at these points. In such circumstances, the role of the Attorney General is even more important. Its impact on the functioning of the state prosecution organisation is exceptional. In the absence of a consistent and explicit restriction on professional activity, political criteria and influence may be introduced into the State Prosecutor's Office in specific cases. It would therefore be normal for the Attorney-General to enjoy the widest possible support of the professional as well as the political public. This proposal for the appointment of Mrs Barbara Brezigar does not guarantee this. The Government's proposal is extremely formal without a single substantive justification. The applicant's life contains only personal data and data on current employment. The candidate did not present herself in the parliamentary groups, at least not in our own. No interviews were held prior to the government's decision with the opposition's parliamentary groups. Neither the candidate nor the government therefore feel the need to substantiate the professional references of the candidate, although the current government coalition has given special attention to this issue when appointing the former Attorney General. The candidate, however, has prepared a starting point for her candidacy. However, from these points of view, it is her desire to increase the role of the Attorney General in organising a state prosecutor's organisation and in guiding the policy of prosecution. It also proposes serious legislative changes in the state prosecutor's office, procedural and material legislation. Based on these sources, the functioning of state prosecutors can be much more substantive, perhaps much more politically oriented than ever before. In its starting points, the candidate does not, in a word, stress the independence of prosecutors at work and the independence of the prosecution from political orientations and influences. Given the undisputed political affiliation of the candidate to Slovenian coalition parties, as the Minister in the Bajuk government and the candidate for the country's president, with the undisputed support of the current coalition parties, it is quite the opposite, it is possible to allow the work of the state prosecutor's office to be more politically oriented than it has been so far. And I repeat, this orientation is particularly reflected in the debates of members of the government coalition on the evaluation of the functioning of the state prosecutor's office so far. If it both connects, the politicisation of the State's Attorney's Office will be increased. These are the reasons why the Group of Social Democrats will not support the nominations.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u115	Thank you for your position. But I am in charge of this city, and I believe that all Members and Members of Parliament know, but all the conditions are met to deal with this point and we cannot deny the procedure that any of the conditions for appointment are not met in the National Assembly, as regards the legal, formal fulfilment of the conditions. My explanation was merely because of possible uncertainties. We continue to present our views. A representative of the New Slovenia Group, colleague Alojz Sok, is next. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u116	Mr President, Mr Minister, fellow Members and Members. The first fact I want to say here is this. The former government could not, knew or wished to appoint when Mrs Zdenka Cerar became the Justice Minister, the Attorney General. That's the first one. Second. On the invitation to tender, she applied for the conditions which she was fully fulfilling, only one candidate, and this is Mrs Barbara Brezigar. It's obvious here today, I could say, some quasi between the obvious as political definitions. I don't know, the former Attorney-General has become an independent Justice Minister and then, in the next phase, she has run for office, while Mrs Brezigar has actually run as an independent political party. Apparently Depala has you, I don't know, again and again, doesn't say anything, but this story has a long beard and the procedure has been completely completed, then cooperation with the Venice Commission, unfinished files in the railway closet, in New Slovenia we don't really know what Mrs Barbara Brezigar would have had if the prosecutor hadn't finished and left the files obsolete. Perhaps someone could also tell her the matter of Grubelič, if spoken here, no matter what you know, it is important that you are ours, then of course it is necessary to say that Mrs Brezigar was the only one who in this country has also brought some economic crime to an end and succeeded that Mr Grubelič has ended up in prison. Let me read only two paragraphs from her programme, which predict that Barbara Brezigar will actually blow a new wind in the field of the prosecution. A brief assessment of the actual situation says: "It is possible to say that in the last few years the reputation of the state prosecutor's institution has dropped in public, so public confidence in the work of state prosecutors has been reduced and their credibility is at one of the lowest points. This situation is due to the conduct of the prosecution in recent years and the lack of political will by the highest representatives of the authorities and the related adoption of inadequate legislation," and then continues, "so the amendment of the law in 1999 dismantled the existing group of state prosecutors for specific cases and reduced the powers of the Attorney General's Office. Such an inadequate amendment of the law thus prevents a group of state-level prosecutors, for example, dealing with the most serious economic crime, from forming the worst and sophisticated forms of abuse of public procurement powers at national level." And something similar happened to me when I was a member of the so-called Friday Commission. For more than a year in this committee, we have tried and demanded that the Friday case be transferred to a special group of prosecutors, there has always been the same excuse that in this case it is not an organised group and that this, I would say, criminal attempted murder that took place does not meet these criteria. With these arguments, it is not necessary to speak before this National Assembly, because the National Assembly itself intervened in its conclusions that matters have moved in some way and that at least this has happened, that the case from Slovenj Gradac has been transferred to another prosecutor and then things have started to unfold. What gives hope to be different from now on is also stated in paragraph where the candidate speaks about the necessity of change when she says "it is necessary to establish responsibility at all levels of the state prosecution organisation. First of all, it is necessary to require the heads of the individual prosecutions to take care of the timely legal and professional work of the state prosecutors in their prosecutions and to be aware that this is their responsibility. Those who accept this position should also take responsibility for it." This is of course the reason why in New Slovenia we will gladly support Mrs Barbara Brezigar and, of course, I hope that the new broom will sweep differently. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u117	Thank you for presenting your point of view. We will hear a presentation of the opinion of the Slovenian People's Party. Comrade Kangler, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u118	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister, honourable Members and Members of Parliament. The Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group will support Mrs Barbara Brezigar as the Attorney-General for several reasons: it fulfils the conditions, it has references, it is a person supported by the Slovenian People's Party in 1998 when she ran for office of Attorney-General. We must not ignore the fact that in 1998 there were two candidates in the government of Drnovšek- Podobnik: Mrs Cerarjeva and Mrs Barbara Brezigar, but at that time the government coalition did not reach a compromise on the prosecutor. At that time, the Slovenian People's Party supported Ms Barbara Brezigar as the Attorney-General. There was a vote in the government and it was then proposed to the National Assembly, Mrs Cerarjevo. There's a lot of words in this national council. Therefore, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are surprised and also surprised that some of the various political options today in this place are changing their views on the political or political aspects of individuals. It was also within the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group that we were surprised that former Attorney General Mrs Cerarjeva at the Congress of Liberal Democracy Slovenia received the most votes for the Vice-President's City, and until then she was a political one. The fact is that we have also witnessed in this National Assembly, that we have already elected individual members from among the Constitutional Judges, who have previously been highly politically defined and who are still serving as a Constitutional Judge. The fact is that I am personally convinced and in the Group of Members we are convinced that whoever gets the trust of this House, the National Assembly, regardless of its political definition, is the fact that so in the coalition and in the opposition, there are rarely any candidates who can be reconciled. But anyone who gains confidence, sufficiently strongly supported by this institution, must comply with the regulations and commitments it makes to the competent authorities in accordance with the Constitution and all other regulations. And if the President of the State could have proposed it in 2004 and received the support of this National Assembly for a representative, a Slovenian national representative in Eurojust, then there is no doubt in the Slovenian People's Party that we would not have been able to obtain the support of the same President of the State and also those who voted in favour of her then in 2004 that we sent her as the Attorney General to Europe. And if it is good for working in the European Union, I am sure and in the Slovenian People's Party's Group we are convinced that it is even better for working in the domestic Slovenian authorities, and this is that it will respect as the Attorney-General if today it receives support, constitution, order and that the broom, no matter how politically defined, will sweep evenly before all the thresholds: left, right, red or blue, or how a person might say it at home. For these reasons, the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group will support Ms Barbara Brezigar as a candidate for the Attorney-General's Office in 1998. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u119	Thank you, Comrade Kangler. Just to be clear, because I see that a number of Members or Members of Parliament are turning to one of the three monitors. As a rule, we are dealing with a number of individual sets in the framework of the electoral mandate, and therefore there is no time limit. If any of the Members have so far been disturbed by the fact that time was displayed on the monitor, this was not meant in terms of restraint. I would like to point out to all other candidates that there is no time limit for discussions. On the basis of the list, I invite the representative of the DeSUS Group, mag. Franca Znidarsich. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u120	Honourable President, Honourable Minister, Honourable Colleagues and Fellows! We have before us the proposal to appoint the Attorney General of the Republic of Slovenia, this is the distinguished Mrs Barbara Brezigar. We need to find that it meets all the required conditions, even more, has rich professional references and is undoubtedly able to lead the prosecution, as we expect. We also need to find that the prosecution is sorry in our country that, to some extent, the courts are in a poor voice, especially due to judicial backlogs and the like. That is why we believe that these human resources solutions must be delivered as soon as possible. Since she is the only candidate and because we do not have any reservations, even in this sense not that she is politically defined, because we think that every citizen of this Republic can be politically defined, but, of course, in the role of the Attorney General, we expect and believe that her political orientation will certainly have no impact on her work in the sense of properly leading the prosecution and that she will perform her function there in a highly professional and neutral manner, our Group will support her. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u121	Thank you. The last stated position of the delegation is by the Slovenian Democratic Party. I'd like to take the floor with my colleague Jožet Tank. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u122	Thank you so much for your words and a nice greeting to everyone. The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group will tear down Barbara Brezigar for the Attorney-General. We are sure that Barbara Brezigar is able to regain the dazzling reputation of the prosecution, as she has a lot of professional prosecutorial knowledge and experience. She headed the general and economic department of the District State Prosecutor's Office in Ljubljana, was a deputy and later acting as the head of the District Attorney's Office in Ljubljana, was the leader of the Special Prosecutor's Group dealing with the prosecution of serious crime, was also the Minister of Justice, and, last but not least, she also carries with her a great deal of confidence in the citizens' office, which she acquired as an independent candidate for the President of the State with the support of the Slovenian Democratic Party and New Slovenia, and is currently serving as the national representative of the Republic of Slovenia in the Office of the European Union of Eurojust, to which she was appointed in 2004, saying that she also has international experience. Barbara Brezigar was also a candidate for the Attorney-General, but the will and decision of the government at the time was different. The ministers of the week voted on their Prime Minister's proposal. As a prosecutor, she led some reverberating processes, such as one of the first business fraud procedures, the Grubelič case, as well as the reverberating and violent situation, also due to the pressure of the then position mainly political matters: Vič-Holmec and Depala village. Both processes led independently, professionally and independently, even though it tried to influence management, speed and the outcome of the prosecution procedure. Although the current disgruntled policy tried to do everything in order to end the proceedings differently - among other things, they were revived years later, when Barbara Brezigar was no longer responsible for these matters, for example for Depala you - everything remained as Barbara Brezigar had decided. This policy has obviously not been over and is still warming, commenting on and considering the decisions of the independent and independent authorities of the judiciary. In the case of Brezigar, this appears to be permitted. In doing so, it should be stressed that it is running for the highest prosecutorial office in the country at a time when the government and the National Assembly have inherited an extremely poor state of justice in the prosecution area, perhaps even with a number of pending and outdated cases and with complete confidence in the rule of law. Trust in the rule of law has been systematically undermined, both by statements and by the recruitment and work of the former political and professionally responsible individuals. Even with the help of the prosecution, the successful path of some in the time of transition was being pressed. Thus, we are witnesses to the agony of the State’s Attorney’s Office, which mainly because of the affair, because of the bad work, the outbursts, and also the exploitations, enjoys a very poor reputation in the public. In fact, citizens do not trust an institution that is supposed to pursue criminal acts by definition. Moreover, even in the DA’s office we have witnessed some repulsive abuses, without proper epilogue. A number of revealed mistakes by prosecutors have gone under the rug. In recent times, the case of Ljubljana's Iron Prosecutor has been particularly noteworthy, who in the closet "forgets" several hundred files. They were neither misled nor recorded, nor existed as such; they were not known or wanted to be known for a long time. Inadmissible long-term prosecutions were unable to even count the archives of the railway files. Only days ago, almost a year later, a final census was made. And I wonder how the prosecution should be effective when it has so much to do with less difficult work, which is certainly the count and list of writings. However, it is still hanging over the prosecution, and among its citizens it reflects an extremely significant and non-stately statement by the former Attorney General and former Minister of Justice, who has declared that every major mess is not a crime yet. This statement most likely excused the selective behaviour of her former colleagues of prosecutors and further undermined confidence in the rule of law. During the previous term of office, the government and the National Assembly failed to complete the appointment of the Attorney General mainly for the sake of gambling in the current coalition. This resulted in the appointment of the Attorney General, thereby allowing for a poor state in the prosecution. Today, the National Assembly is ahead of an important decision because we will choose a new man at the head of the prosecution and in our opinion Barbara Brezigar is the best choice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u123	Thank you for presenting the last of the submitted positions of the parliamentary groups. If I may find out, all positions so far have been in progress. If I can express my hope or request, to all the next 24 Members and Members who have been notified, to avoid being accused on the one hand of the past and, on the other hand, to accuse the future if we hold a debate in the sense of wanting to pursue the best possible part of the prosecution. The first one is my colleague, Milan Cwick. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u124	Thank you for your word. Ambassadors and Members, Mr. Secretary! I'm glad you could join us. Let me talk to you about the procedures first. It is true that the rules of procedure lay down all the conditions for us to be able to hold discussions. However, it is also true that, in accordance with the protocol rules adopted in agreement with the former Secretary-General, it has been established that the candidates are not present today in this national assembly, although we have had quite a few cases in the past term when the candidates were here. I think it is a matter of personal courage and determination for the candidate and leadership of the National Assembly to ensure this possibility. Allow me to explain in more detail why we fear that, after client-motivated staff clearances in the ministries, in the police, in the public administration, in the economy, it is obvious that it is now the prosecutor's turn. On Friday, as my colleague has said, the media will, over time, follow this logic, because we have heard today that we have major problems in the judiciary, whether then it is the MPs, I don't know. In a recent interview, Mrs Hribar said something. We believe that it is the exercise of authoritarian power, because the proposal of Mr Janez Janša was only one candidate, to put Barbara Brezigar in the country's most responsiblely sensitive position, in fact, a perfectly logical move. It proves the Prime Minister's wish to manage and control the political, economic, cultural and now prosecutor's area. Since no one wanted to be represented by the government or the candidate today, because the candidate obviously did not decide to come and look us in this round hall in the eye and present her programme, allow me to comment briefly on her programme and on this basis also explain why I cannot support the candidate. First of all, the analysis presented by the candidate lady. There are, of course, many flat-rate ratings on the page: reputation declines, credibility is at one of the lowest points, and then, of course, it lists its own problems, the problems of the group that led it. It also insinuates procedures in these statements because it actually says that the most explicit and sophisticated abuse of public procurement is not detected. Someone previously renamed the former Vice-President's Commission to Friday's commission, and I don't know why this is happening, and said how the state prosecutor's office did not act accordingly. In this analysis, there is no data nor any figure on the short estimate of the actual situation. Moreover, the candidate lady then says, somewhere on page three, that it will, of course, be necessary to first identify the reasons for the bad outcome and by presenting the analysis directly to the public prosecutors to prevent future similar errors. In a brief assessment of the actual situation, however, he does not mention any facts. Then the candidate proposes how it will work. He says there is a need for a different leadership and a different organisation of the State Prosecutor's Office. I don't know how she worked so far. She was under the senior management of the State Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Slovenia, and six years ago I also met her in some budgetary coordination. What he says is above all a different organisation, but above all he says: "It is necessary for prosecutors to be responsible to also give appropriate tools," the weapons could also be read. In this respect, we will be happy to observe how this new broom will sweep. However, it should be borne in mind that the way brooms are flogged, lay down the rules or procedures laid down in the national assembly. But the candidate says otherwise. The candidate says she does not like or opposes constant legislative changes, but it will be necessary to amend the law on the State Prosecutor's Office if it is not already adopted, since patching often does not solve the problem. Conditioning a candidate or recording the need for a change in her programme is like having a candidate for the President of the Court of Auditors here who would say, "Yes, choose me as President of the Court of Auditors, but first it is necessary to amend the law on the Court of Auditors in the way I imagine." And this is what the candidate tells us: "I will be the Attorney General of State, but I expect that those who support me today in this National Assembly will also change the procedure for how the state prosecutor works." This, of course, is the mixing of those who sweep with those who lay down rules on how to sweep brooms. In particular, we wish that the new broom would not sweep the new power just as it would have wanted without changing the procedure. And these procedures are set out in Parliamentary Democracy in the National Assembly. We regret that today the candidate is absent because she might explain to us how she imagines these changes in the legislation. However, it is probably at today's meeting that Eurojust is already saying good-bye to its colleagues and so on to today's decision. I will not, of course, support the presentation of an analysis in which there is not a single data on the part of the State Prosecutor's Office, at the parliamentary club and personally the candidate for the preparation of the programme, due to its conditionality. At the same time, I expect that we will be able to hear more substantive arguments in the debate that this is a true candidate than that it was not selected between the two candidates in 1998. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u125	Thank you, Comrade Squeakle. The debate on the candidate programme is, of course, welcome. The programme was agreed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, so we insisted that the government representative was present at the meeting today. In order to inform all Members and to avoid any difficulties, let me inform you that the government representative, in our case the competent minister, has a statement at the end of the debate when he can explain and answer all questions raised or open dilemmas. A colleague, Dušan Kumer, has been reported for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u126	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I didn't remember all the instructions you gave, what I could say and what I couldn't say. Still, I'm going to try to take that into account, and I'm going to [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u127	I can tell you later. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u128	will focus on today and now, but has implications for the future. [[...]] The first fact is that it took place for the first time in these fourteen, fifteen years, that there is no wider interest in the City of Attorney-General, that today we have only one candidate who has expressed a willingness to take on this important function. This should still put us all at least a little in the face of a dilemma and the question of why. Is there really only one candidate in Slovenia with as high professional references as required by this position that is willing to accept this function? My answer is quite simple and logical: the monthly recruitment of the new executive authority, that is, these governments and these coalitions, to state institutions, to an economy that is abnormally intense, has shown and has proved that there is not even a minimum chance of success in any human resources choice of anyone who does not meet two basic conditions - read, as is hidden in the coalition contract - for the first time that it is ours, and for the second time that it will ensure that we are even more able to put it in this position or position. That is why I have already said at the last session of the Elections and Appointments Commission that this is one of the fundamental reasons why I do not have the opportunity to choose this function as a Member. In view of the fact that the Government has found and assessed that the candidate fulfils everything by law certain conditions for this function and has proposed it to the State Assembly for election, the political outcome of this candidacy is, of course, announced: today the government or coalition majority will also elect it. But, of course, I have the opportunity to give my opinion or position on this announced election, and I will do so. First time. In my opinion, this is an extremely political human resources move and I would be surprised if Mrs Barbara Brezigar was not proposed today. For a good decade now, on behalf of the parties to today's coalition and government, a virtual representative of civil society has been. With this pedigree, she was appointed Minister of the Bajuk Government in 1999, and a few years later, she was a candidate for the country's president, although the entire logistics and electoral campaign was conducted again under the cover of civil society and one of today's major parliamentary parties took place in the eyes of the entire Slovenian public. Some of them, who at the time liked to be photographed by a candidate in the presidential elections, are sitting in this Parliament today. Even from the so-called civil society, some have switched to the government coalition and are now sitting in ministerial chairs. Therefore, it is not possible to state and it is not fair to the candidate that her political preferences and definitions and her political chalk are denied. Last but not least, this political commitment has written down - if you have read its presentation and programme - alone in the conclusion of your short programme the following [[Quote]] : "If political leaders show political will for the quality of the work of the state prosecution organisation, I am ready to lay down my powers and knowledge of this." [[End of quote.]] So, bets primarily and only on your political botteries. Therefore, it makes sense that this majority in the national assembly or, as I said earlier, this well - educated and disciplined school class also elects and confirms it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u129	A colleague, Geza Juban, who is not in the hall, has been reported. We continue with the next application, which is Ljubo Germič. [[He's not here.]] The following is a colleague of Willi Trofenik, who is also not in the hall. It's Mrs. Majda Shirca's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u130	Mr. Mag. Gniedaršič recently said that he was not disturbed or that their parliamentary groups were not disturbed by the political definition of the candidate if we were all politically defined. However, this kind of simplification or use of such rhetoric, which we all understand is a very informal type, because today it is, yesterday it was different, touching the fundamental issue that we are all facing today: the interference or contamination of politics with certain situations that should not have any major problems with politics. See, in a short time we will meet with some law, the law on RTV Slovenia, which brings some very drastic, certainly a pre-racial solution, but it comes from the assumption that so-called political contamination for certain situations can be burdensome. Following this bill, the Director-General of RTV Slovenia should not be anyone who has been involved in politics in any way for the past ten years. Not only that, but also more, it must not be in any professional and other services, including European services, which have any policy approach. In fact, the assumption of such a solution, which, I say, is even unconstitutional and very drastic in this case, but the assumption is that the autonomy of decision-making and management may be limited if it is politically contacted and it is not a case that the Council of Europe has made a recommendation - I think that number 19 - is a condition that the prosecution should not be politicised. And with Mrs Barbara Brezigar, the candidate, it is not only about politicisation, which today has been quite said, but certainly not all of it, but also about her involvement in certain affairs and certain actions, where decisions were very questionable. Of course, the most often and one of the most pronounced examples of such behaviour, questionable conduct and affair, is Depal's affair and also the publication of the decision of the Venice Commission regarding the electoral system, as well as its legacy when it ceased its function v.d. the Ljubljana Prosecutor's Office and we know that at that time about one hundred unregistered audit reports of the former SDK regarding the ownership of companies owned by society are to be found in its prosecutor's closet. And we have already pointed out that some of the writings from the time of her leadership of the Ljubljana Prosecutor's Office have also been found in the closet of the indignant Miran Železnik, whom Barbara Brezigar appointed as the head of the economic department. What is worth considering in today's decision is not only that we are meeting with the candidacy and that Mrs Barbara Brezigar has decided to run for office, but also that her references, and so on, are not questionable, but that the government has proposed to her. In short, according to the way it is defined, the government should consider whether it is wise to pursue politics and the politicisation of a very important body, a state body. It scares me, namely, the logic that in certain places some of our own, certain people who want to be in power, must be in certain places. In fact, these forecasts are not new, a colleague who is absent here, has already announced at his local radio stations that there will be a need to wake up, that there will be a need to change a lot of things in the prosecution, and we understand that some have a certain interest in this. Nor was the role of Mrs Barbara Brezigar played by me if I continue that point, which was linked to the questionability of certain of her decisions in her professional work, let us say in the past. Nor was its role in the arms trade and the Ministry of Defence neglected, and at the time she led the group of state prosecutors for special purposes, she filed 17 complaints about arms trafficking, none of which had experienced an epilogue before the court. When I looked at the archive, the rich archive of its statements in the past, or the statements of others that were in any way touched, tanned in the processes of its decisions, I came across a claim in the archive from the Slovenian week 2003. At the journalist's question: "So did Barbara Brezigar participate in the attack on Milan Smolnikar?" -Mrs. Barbara Brezigar's response was, or Mr. Vinko Beznik of June 2003, this is what the former head of Slovenian police special forces said: "She participated in the preparations or she knew about it." And then, with this - in 2001 - when she dropped the charges that I was talking about earlier, she protected the actors and associates in the Depala affair. In short, there are many such and other indications to suggest that today's decision, which will undoubtedly be supported, as you yourself have predicted, is not only today, but also much earlier, that the government is continuing its decision to politicise the most important authorities in the country that should not be in any way marked by such politicisation and even with such history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u131	Thank you. It's Master Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u132	Thank you for your word. I'd like to say good-bye to everyone. I must say that after this debate, which I have been listening to for some time now, I do not want this to sound like a shock to anyone, but today we do not like the Director-General of RTV Slovenia, but we are deciding on the Government's proposal for a Attorney-General. What I have to say is that I am no longer surprised in this National Assembly after more than half a year, since we have been together, that the same picture always appears. We have at least two political parties who always have a great deal to say for the sake of greater representation of women in politics, strongly defend women's quotas and just every time, but just every time from the beginning of this mandate, when a concrete proposal for a woman's sex comes out, these same people stand in line, each one with their own pustule canopy and then throw it over long and over, and at a time when this shameful ritual is over, they show up again in a broad public debate and continue to debate, only how can it be that there are no more women in key cities in Slovenia and that it is necessary to resolve it with women's quotas. Now those of you who are expressing an enormous amount of mental care for the independence of the judiciary today would remind you that, as far as I know, as far as I can direct it, you are members of exactly those two parties, who not so long ago to the Constitutional Court appointed someone who was the president of the political party, specifically the Union of Communists of Slovenia. So much for depoliticizing some organs, as you just said, and for your concrete efforts and concrete actions in this direction. What needs to be emphasized, however, is that when we talk about Barbara Brezigar, apples mix here and pears. One is to be a member of the political party and Barbara Brezigar is certainly not a member of any political party or coalition of Slovenia, as some of you have said, but it is even more funny, as you reasoned: the fact that these two parties supported it in the elections for the president of the country. Of course, you have only forgotten to add that Mrs Barbara Brezigar has also publicly asked for your support, but you have denied her this support. Today, however, you refer to your own action as a chronic argument of its politicization. It is a matter of values in truth, values, ladies and gentlemen. And here I must say that Barbara Brezigar has a quality that we all certainly miss in Slovenian politics. He is a person who actually lives and works in harmony with the values he advocates and is therefore a person who is a credible person who is trustworthy and a person I welcome on his return to Slovenia. It must also be said that it is in some way possible to look at this coming at this very moment from this very point of view of human values and its positive attitude towards its own country. Because it comes from a function that is incomparably better paid, ladies and gentlemen, like the paid function of the Attorney General in Slovenia, and this decision has certainly not been easy and it is certainly something that needs to be respected and appreciated. And in this is the answer to your fundamental dilemma - is it a person worthy of support? Surely it is worth the support, for sure the person who will raise, raise and increase the confidence in the prosecution, and thus, if you want, in justice in its entirety, because we all know where the stories of the unknown long complications have usually started and then where the persecution has occurred or not. All that you have now seen Mrs Barbara Brezigar has been the subject of widespread public controversy and has also become known as proper professional conduct, sometimes even supported by certain decisions of other judicial authorities, where this has also been necessary in this case. It is said that these arguments, of course, do not stand even what is called sound reasoning. What Slovenia certainly needs is an effective, good, quality and, above all, a functioning public prosecutor's office, because we have not had much good experience in the past. More than that, when we talk about double criteria, there have been a lot of controversy in this direction with regard to individual very controversial decisions. And that is why it is also necessary to say at this point, even when it comes to public prosecution, not only is it appropriate legislation that defines or acts, as it should, in a European comparable way or not, but it is also values. And because Barbara Brezigar not only literally specialises what we all call human or European values together, if you want to, but once again, is a person that I firmly know lives in harmony with these values, I will gladly vote for her election and I can only say, "Welcome home." Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u133	Thank you for an interesting discussion. And I would like to take the floor with my colleague, Darja Lovtijar-Bebler.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u134	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. I'm going to say some thoughts, and I'm going to take the risk of criticizing that I haven't overcame a healthy thought. And I will say that I cannot support Mrs Barbara Brezigar as a candidate for the Attorney-General because she is not a person worthy of trust - for this function, I stress, for this function. Otherwise, I have never had anything against her, especially not as a woman, and I also pray that this unreasonable thought will not be instilled in me. But when someone who is not here was mentioned here, and, if I understand correctly, Mr Grimes, you had in mind the constitutional judge, Mr Cyril Ribič, - I suppose this is so - it is not nice to speak critically of someone who is not here and has no opportunity to defend himself. At first, a mistake was made in saying that he was the president of the Communist Union. If I recall correctly, the president of the SDP was then, the parties to democratic reconstruction. Well, according to this criterion, you wouldn't even be that far away with Mrs. Barbara Brezigareva. Mrs Barbara Brezigareva was the number of years before the break-up with the former regime of the state prosecutor - you know what we think of the role of the then state prosecutors - and she was a member of the union of communists. However, I think that, of course, it is politically defined, highly politically defined, and it also bothers me. In fact, she was also a high-ranking prosecutor at the time of Mr Drobnič, his right-hand man, and he is said to be a member of the New Slovenian Union. She was, as you have already said, the Minister of Justice in the Bajuk government, which, of course, was a political government, that is clear. And today it is obviously so politically compatible that it will certainly be with this electoral roller, which exists here in this national council called the Attorney General. It was mentioned that it has great international references or experience. In this regard, when the Minister of Justice was the Government of Dr Andrei Bajuk in two letters to the Commission for Democracy through Law or so-called Venice Commission at the Council of Europe, she asked for a position on whether the constitutional supplements introducing a proportional electoral system were in line with European democratic tradition and standards. Despite Mrs Barbara Brezigar's attempts to postpone the announcement to the government of Dr. Bajuk for three months, and despite the indication of the wrong dates for the elections in the Republic of Slovenia, the Venice Commission has decided before the elections in the Republic of Slovenia that the changes to the constitution with which the proportional electoral system was established are not contrary to any European standards of democracy. Speaking of those who have no opportunity to defend themselves here, I would like to mention another assessment that Mrs Cerarjevo has made an unseemly statement when she once said that "not every pig is a crime". And she was right - not every major piggy crime is a crime unless it is predetermined as such in a criminal code. Lawyers have learned this in their first year of law school, and they have no problems with it. Well, there's a lot of talk here today about a new broom that's going to sweep better, about a new wind that's going to wind up, and he's going to wind up in the D.A.'s office. And what can a person say about it? All I can say is that obviously the new spirit of political compatibility has spread steadily throughout this country, and this is somehow worrying us. We hope that we have no justification for this concern and that future situations will demean us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u135	Thank you, colleague of Darja Lavtizar Bebler. My word to Dr. Matey Lakhovnik. [[He's not here.]] I'd like to take the floor with my colleague Davorin Terchón. [[He's not here.]] I'd like to take the floor with my colleague Anton Anderlich. [[He's not here.]] I'd like to take the floor with my colleague Rudolph Mojet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u136	President, thank you so much for your word. Dear Members and Members! With this election of Mrs Barbara Brezigar as Attorney General, I feel that the human resources policy of the coalition is either confused or targeted politically oriented. So I'll try to explain why. If someone is running some people to the most exposed places and we decide in the National Assembly to do so, give it support, not much time after, not after a year, but for something else, such a policy seems unconstitutional or confused. I myself believed that when the President of the State proposed to me to elect Mr Sturm and Mrs Barbara Brezigar to represent the colors of Slovenia in Europe, I thought they were good representatives, we elected them and - look at him! - not so long from this one becomes a minister, and the other becomes the Attorney General, and I don't think that in the long run, the staffing doesn't throw any good lights into the country. On the other hand, I say that this government's human resources policy is targeted. Why? Certainly, as you have seen today and also the position acknowledges this, Mrs Barbara Brezigar is one of the key political figures on the political map of Slovenia. Everyone knows that, and it was not disputed anywhere, either that it was an election, or that it was Depala village, where the weapons were essentially cleaned, or that it was [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u137	My colleague Mogo, if you'll excuse me. Comrade Bajc, please let the speaker speak to the end, so much must be right to each other and let him change his mind. Go ahead, Comrade Moge.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u138	Just to write it down, it says, "I didn't freeze the book." In the end, I'm going to comment on all of this, and we're just talking about time. I'm in more pain. [[...]] [[Advertisers from benches]] Please, what hurts me more, but this is, look if we look at the structure of the structure in which Mrs Barbara Brezigar came. [[...]] We know almost everyone, which political option is very close to the Minister of the Interior, we know very well which political option is close to the Minister of Justice and today and many times we have also heard which political option or party, if you take it, is very close to the Attorney General's Office. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u139	Mr. Bajc, now I really beg you, allow the speaker to speak to the end.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u140	Ms. Candidate for Attorney General. Okay? Well, you see, teachers can learn, too. In this regard, I would like to say that if a party, where these people are close, have all the repressive apparatus from themselves, put only the general director of the police - this moment is - which then seems to me to be such a situation as to allow Slovenia to become a country of politically motivated criminal processes and I wonder about this "quo vadis" Slovenia. This fact is worrying, respected colleagues and colleagues. Now, to Mr Bajc's comment that Mrs Brezigar was not present, the booklet was frozen. Earlier, a colleague on the electoral commission said that Mrs Barbara Brezigar had never been a member of any political party, but I say what the colleague said was that in my opinion she was a model member of the Union of Communists of Slovenia, and Mr Bajc that "the library did not freeze".
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u141	I propose that we proceed with the discussion via microphones, and please, if all Members and Members of Parliament, in our case only Members, hold on to this. My colleague Miro Petek has been reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u142	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Personally, I place a lot of hope in Mrs Barbara Brezigar. I expect that, as a possible new Attorney-General, she will protect those prosecutors who are professional and courageous in their work and who have pursued the pursuit of crime of the worst kind. I expect the new Attorney General to stand up for her prosecutor Elizabeth Gyököš, who has crossed the lines of the criminal association and has shown that the prosecutor's courage is lacking in this country. As a result, Mrs Györkösova has also been at risk of life and has been protected by the police for more than half a year by Mrs Györkös. This threat to Prosecutor Györkös is, of course, also a clear message to other prosecutors and law enforcement authorities in Slovenia not to tackle the worst cases. Apparently, it is even more worthwhile to have a full closet of criminal records than to do a decent and quality prosecutorial work. As some prosecutors turn themselves in, other prosecutors put their work at the end of their lives. We can also ask ourselves if Slovenia needs the action "Clean Hands" of Prosecutor Anton Di Pietra. Some claim that we are still far from Italy in the years when it was overcrowded by corruption. Let us hope that this is true and that we will not get too close to such a state. However, the multitude of affairs we have witnessed and have witnessed in recent years indicate that the prosecution has not been effective in its work and that it is an erosion of the rule of law in this country. Although statistics can cover up a lot and improve the image of the work of the Slovenian Prosecutor's Office, resounding and unfinished cases show a different image. I think that we will all agree in this national council that it would be better to solve one big case, even if it goes to a dozen rich cases. The legal marriage of the work of a group of state prosecutors for special matters, when, after 1999, groups are not allowed to form for other serious forms of crime, but only for so-called organised crime, has undermined the work of the prosecution in many areas and, therefore, in some ways, the prosecution has become quite disabled. Someone in this country must have been comfortable with that. I therefore welcome Mrs Barbara Brezigar's knowledge that, by amending the law, it is necessary to extend the work of specific prosecution groups to other areas, such as serious cases of economic crime, misuse of powers in public procurement, where there is a rather open environment for various corruption and so on. I think that is why the will in this national assembly must also be sent a clear enough message from this national assembly. I am also pleased that Barbara Brezigar wrote in her basic points of view for the Attorney General's Office that she does not show that all prosecutors are equally capable. Both politicians, cooks and journalists are also highly capable, less capable, and incompetent prosecutors. Knowledge and recognition of this fact is already a step towards getting the most challenging cases from the best prosecutors, who must also be properly rewarded and must be given an appropriate opportunity to make progress. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u143	Thank you, colleague Friday. I would like to take the floor with my colleague Dimitri Kovacic.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u144	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues, colleagues. We recently decided in this National Assembly to appoint two candidates as Judge of the European Court of Justice. At that time, some of you discussed and taught us that it is inappropriate to comment and evaluate individual decisions of candidates in certain specific matters when they decided on their role. And today it is you who said at the time that it was inappropriate to comment, comment and evaluate the work of today's candidate and its specific decisions in individual cases. I don't think that's the right thing to do, whether it's a candidate for a judicial function or a candidate for a prosecutor's office. Otherwise, I fully support the proposal to appoint the Attorney-General, because I believe that this is an expertly based proposal. In addition to the professional references proposed, the proposed candidate certainly cannot be denied either at home or abroad by anyone who can be denied by his work so far has proved to be a person worthy of the full trust of the National Assembly. The State Prosecutor's Office is a very important institution on which the operation depends largely on how the state opposes various forms of crime. As we know, the public prosecutor's office, as has been said today, does not enjoy much confidence. It is therefore very important that someone who is an undisputed professional authority in his field, who is aware of the shortcomings of the current situation, and who is also willing and able to lead the prosecution in a way that will also become in practice such a body that will consistently exercise its legal powers and thus restore its trust as it now has. I am convinced that Mrs Barbara Brezigar is a person who is able to take a step forward and give back to the prosecution a certain degree of stupendous reputation. I also believe that it has a sense and a sense of purpose for those organisational receptions that will provide as much quality as possible and operational work, and I also expect it to be able to encourage and motivate its own team of people that will guide them through its own example. That is why, of course, I will support the proposal to appoint Mrs Barbara Brezigar as the Attorney-General, and I wish her success in her difficult and responsible future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u145	Thank you. To the word of Dr. Gantar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u146	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. First of all, I would like to say that it is clear by the nomination of Mrs Barbara Brezigar as the Attorney General, a public prosecutor who is known and recognised primarily as a politician, as a person who has run for President of the State, who has explicitly put herself in a political position as a politician, which is perfectly legitimate and therefore there is nothing wrong with the government making a clear message through this candidature. And that is that the conduct of the state's prosecution is, in fact, a political function. Even if Barbara Brezigar tries to avoid this - and I believe that she will want to function and act as the Attorney General - is, because this term is very well established today, it is in some ways contaminated as a politician; hot, reluctant will be her decisions - can be completely professional, legitimate or not, I don't know - defined as political decisions. This has been a clear message from the government, a political issue that cannot be avoided. Once you have crossed, I would say the threshold of political, when once someone has been a minister, once someone has run for president, the president of the country, it is impossible to take him in that position, otherwise it can be politically defined, but in principle an impartial civil servant, an employee and so on. So everyone who has crossed this threshold must know that he has crossed it; and Barbara Brezigar has crossed it, there is no doubt about it. However, I think that during the number of candidates applied for in the tender, which was very large, the government has not chosen the worst candidate at all, and I think that the poorer candidates and candidates were neither on the list nor on the list. The government could have suggested any worse candidate if he showed up. Barbara Brezigar is certainly not the worst candidate, far from this, in a professional, personal or political way. Of course, even if there is no party member, politically defined, there can be no doubt about it, even if there is no delay. People are social beings, political beings, and they're political. Second, if a person puts his public function in a car with certain political options, then things look different and then, of course, they look very dangerous. And above all, I warn you. I warn you that the government, by running, with a proposal, would say that it needlessly politicizes a story that will ultimately harm it. In this regard, I would like to comment in particular on the fact that the colleague who spoke before me, Comrade Kovacič, that there is a need to distinguish between the role of prosecutor or the Attorney General and the judicial functions. If we do not make a distinction, then we do not know why it is unacceptable to comment on the decisions of the Constitutional Court and why it is possible to comment on the past actions of public and other prosecutors. And, of course, we all do this in one way or another within our capabilities, competences, as well as awareness that we must not be too reckless here, and that we must have our own measure of what we can and cannot do. I'd say that, and actually that's why I called. When I listened to Comrade Grimes, I thought I was listening to some propaganda show on the market radio. But you won't believe me, or as a colleague would say, please, because you don't think the government has proposed to Mrs Barbara Brezigar because she is a woman. She suggested it because she was the only candidate. And why was she the only candidate? Because no one else has checked in. And why hasn't anyone else checked in? Because everyone knew he didn't have a chance. In previous reports, where the government, which I myself have been in, behaved awkwardly, perhaps even wrongly, we had two or three candidates on these invitations. And I am very sorry that we did not actually propose a candidate or a candidate and we finished things; but we did not, and we paid for it. But at least we had two or three candidates! But there are no more candidates here, and they don't even answer any more calls. The government doesn't even have a chance to choose - I have to protect it in this sense. Finally, I would say that, on one thing with Mr Grims, I agree - that Mrs Barbara Brezigar, the Attorney General, will live and work in harmony with the values she advocates. And we will soon come to know these values. Maybe they won't be the ones Mr Grims thinks are values, maybe they'll be different. But we will definitely find out what values he lives with, what values he works for and defends. However, I have to get my hands on a sentence that has been criticised and pronounced by the former Attorney General and then by Minister Zdenka Cerar, that "every big pig is not yet a crime". What my colleague Darja Lovtišar Bebler said is true. This sentence is a defence of the rule of law. This sentence means that only what is pre-defined in the Code or in other laws as a criminal offence can be defined as a criminal offence and that it is not possible to define, in our sense, someone as a criminal offence and to define a criminal offence in return. It was a story that is today self-sustaining and taught by lawyers in the first year, as they say. In the 1980s - perhaps the minister will agree - this story was not self-evident. In the 1980s, we had to fight for this interpretation, Mr Tanko - that not every piece of crap that has been defined as a pig is a crime. For example, the "find" anthem on the student radio was not a crime because it was not defined as a crime, and so on. We had to fight for those things. And since you weren't there, Mr. Tanko, you don't know that this sentence is a world for anyone who swears to the rule of law. And I'm glad it was spoken by my colleague, former Minister of Justice. And we're all behind him. Thank you. Of course I'll vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u147	Mr. Kovacic, you've been reported to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Given that I have been named by name, I will not comment on this last statement by the former Attorney General. This famous statement of hers about the "great swine fever", which, in addition to what has been said, can also be an alibi for not doing something, but I will comment or challenge what has been said to be the prosecution and judicial function of course, which is what she holds. But I said this, and some in this National Assembly said that certain concrete decisions of the Constitutional Judge were not appropriate to comment. And the decision of the Constitutional Court is final. Now, if we compare this with the decisions of the prosecutors, then we need to know that the decisions of the prosecutors in specific cases are also final. And, of course, after this analogy, it would indicate that these decisions cannot be commented on either. I do not agree with this, because I believe that all decisions - whether they are final or not - can be commented on in the professional public. But it is not appropriate to comment on them, you said, I only said that you, who said it was inappropriate to comment on them, are now commenting on these specific decisions that have been made in the past by the current candidate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u149	We continue the debate. My word, colleague Cvetko Zalokar Orazem.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u150	Thank you so much for saying that. Today it has been said that we need a new wind in the prosecutor’s office, for the reputation is severely impaired or should be severely diminished. After that, a number of extremely important functions have been listed, which have been handled by a candidate for the state prosecutor in the past 10 and more years. So, we can say that, actually, she was involved all along in this dazzling image of the prosecution, and probably some piece of it also contributed to this, because she did not manage some very much, I will say, irrelevant functions within the prosecution, but I will, allow me to list some functions that may not have been mentioned earlier, but are also important for some of the findings that fall on average through the prosecution. Last but not least, or firstly, I would like to mention what we have already mentioned, even in its drawers, even in its cabinets, more than 100 undescribed SDK audit reports remain. So the stories began earlier in the Railways case, and, of course, there is no need to ignore that Mr Ironborn, which has been repeatedly mentioned as an example of the most deplorable prosecutorial work, was placed on this function by Barbara Brezigar in her own time. So she knew or chose fellow workers and people who later turned out to be extremely inappropriate. In addition, Mrs Barbara Brezigar, in the context of this dazzling prosecution, also led an IT centre, which took care of the preparation of computer tools that would allow for the supervision of the description of the prosecutions or the work of prosecutors in the registers, a case which led to the case of the Railways, when the files were not actually introduced. Obviously, this IT centre has not done its duty in these years, as Mrs Barbara Brezigar led it to avoid such anomalies. According to the information I have, Mrs Barbra Brezigar also worked on the audit committee, which exercised control over the work of state prosecutors and established a policy of prosecution, assessed the conditions for the progress of prosecutors and investigated complaints. In short, she had a whole range of powers and opportunities to influence that this reputation of the prosecution would not be as dazed as it is being spoken of today; hence, she had the opportunity. I would like to say that, according to my opinion, Mrs Barbara Brezigar is not a "new breeze" that will take place after the prosecution, but she has been quite strongly involved in this "still breath" which we are surprised to see in these prosecutor's chambers, if that is the case. It was also said that the previous government could appoint the Attorney-General in its mandate, the procedures I think have been initiated, thank God the previous government has followed the procedure as it must run, people have complained or candidates have complained and this appointment has also been impeded. I think, however, my fellow Members and colleagues, that today we would listen to more evidence if this happened by chance two, three, four months before the elections and would appoint a Attorney General or Prosecutor-General before the elections a previous power. So I think that today I would then be holding discussions in a different direction, and it is even correct, according to my assessment, that this has not happened in such a way, although I am extremely concerned and I do not have to agree at all, as I have also said on the election committee, that we will accept Members and Members so freely that we will take this function, which, according to my assessment, is one of the most important in the country, which is apriorous from now on as "our" and "your" so we will take it as a politicised function. I think it's extremely dangerous. And, of course, this is in the context of all the misunderstandings of the human resources moves that we can observe at this time or in recent weeks, because, lastly, also with regard to the law on public servants, I wish to say permanently - not only those few months after the elections - to have permanent control over all the important functions in the country, which, of course, can be welcomed if they are executive functions, but I do not think that this is appropriate in the functions of the judiciary and the repressive authorities. And, of course, this surveillance is already in place. Colleagues, the police are already yours, the prosecution will be yours from today, the tax administration will be yours, the customs administration, similar authorities, these are not organs where you can put your people explicitly. But I am saying this because your colleague on the mandate committee has very explicitly escaped that "we will share this and this is ours now". And don't reach into this field and what you're protesting. Last but not least, this story does not end in these functions, but now we will also have a professional head of the clinical centre, named after political levers, where I do not think I really want to be treated by someone who is politically unaware of how to define or professionally, I am talking about the professional function of the director of the clinical centre, who is explicitly set up politically and is the closest associate of Minister Bručan. And because our colleague Cerarov's face is always exposed, the clientele is now. Excuse me, Mrs Cerarjev was never a member of the party at the time of the prosecution. She joined or joined the party when she became a minister in the government. I think that's completely understandable and there's no problem with it. Ministers in the government are also politically defined, more than others. And last but not least, Mrs Brezigareva was already the minister in Bayuk or Janša's government years ago. Actually, I think it's more of a non-entry pose. On the other hand, I think that citizens and citizens also know the political option of Mrs Brezigareva, and that is in fact one seduction. As a matter of fact, we could all watch on TV how she celebrated a fine success in the presidential elections, side by side with Mr. Janez Janša. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u151	I would like to take the floor with my colleague, Aleš Gulič.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u152	Respectable and respected. We've heard a lot. In fact, I would like to take this proposal, through which I would like to learn more about Mrs Barbara Brezigar. Well, the résumé is written on one side and we're back to what we heard today. Her political career is in fact unknown from this CV, except that in 2002 she ran for president of the Slovenian state. Of course, we know that it has always been politically defined, and I hope that it is not politically intertwined. Otherwise, she was a member of a party, the same party as I would have, only I do not express my image from historical photographs, but I am not ashamed of it and I feel nothing like it if we were in some system - because he had only one client - in only the party that was possible. In fact, in these basic points of reference for the Attorney General's candidacy, I am more disturbed by such a general narrative of how the prosecutions do not have a reputation. I must say that in Zasavje, the prosecution has the reputation that it was commendable on the professional side and that it is also well received among the people. I'm sure I'm not that good at flat-rate grades. Mrs Barbara Brezigar, of course, had many functions, and she certainly made a mistake in her life. I highly doubt that it's as clean and really as new a broom as they say here. Let me just mention that Mr Zmigo Jelinčič, who, due to political bias mentioned in the work of Barbara Brezigar, even requested the establishment of a parliamentary commission of inquiry, was appointed expert supervision of the work of prosecutors in 2003 against Barbara Brezigar. There were indications that in this case it was a politically motivated prosecution against the state prosecutor and then denied by then Minister of Justice Ivan Bizjak, a member of the political party that is now part of the ruling coalition. I'm sure it's a connection. Another thing that bothers me in some way, of course, is tied, not to the past, but to the future, although these things are of course very connected. We know it's the present, the past of the future. This is a very near future - today we will also conclude on the composition and appointment of the President, the Vice-President and the members and deputies, not to read anything, a new investigative commission that is supposed to investigate work, as stated here, "in relation to the enforcement of supervision under the State Prosecutor's Office Act". I know it's a coincidence, but I don't believe in coincidence. I don't believe it. Looks like there's more to it, and someone's telling us something. He's probably telling us everything we've heard today. I would end up like this: I will not vote for Mrs Barbara Brezigar because she is the only candidate, and I did not like that when we have always voted only on the only candidates. This is the past, but I hope it's not the future, but it's the present.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u153	Thanks, buddy Gulic. My word, Master Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u154	Thank you very much, Chairman, and once again a nice greeting to the audience. I think this debate is useful. As a young and green man in this House, I have looked at how the debates have been held in the past years, when the position and opposition have been replaced. However, I must say that we are still cultural in the opposition today, which is patient, less emotional, and that the debate is going in the right direction. Given that I see that the candidate lady is an extremely flexible person, because she has a wide political path to her, from the union of communists, and today quite to the other shores, I think that, too, from this debate that we are leading here today, she will be able to draw a lot of useful things, especially in the direction of, that what we are telling her will not be as black as we are painting. Also from the debate of its opponents, there are many ways to draw something useful, something clever, and use it to make its work better, of course, for the common benefit of all our citizens and citizens. An old proverb is that it is the most valuable thing to learn from other people's mistakes. And I hope you won't repeat everything you've told us in the past. If we have done some things wrong in the past, this is not an argument that you are repeating them today, because you said that after these elections it would get better and better. And I wish you good luck on this journey, because it will be good for Slovenia and all the Slovenian women. But what bothers me in all this story may be a naive and green policy, but how easy it is for me in this country to say, not left, not right, but all together, how easily we accept and postpone some very, very important functions. Mrs Barbara Brezigar was appointed to Eurojust with one such exciting support months ago because we then assessed that she would represent us there in a quality, professional way. Now, after a few months, we're pulling her out of this function. I am interested in how this will affect the reputation and credibility of Slovenia, that after a few months we have changed our minds there. But I'm even more concerned, I think they said there's going to be a presidential election in 2007. And I'm sorry that Mrs. Candidate isn't here. I would like to ask her if the prosecution's work is going as well as it has done so many times, only temporary, only temporary, whether the prosecution will then leave and take office as president. It's just this ease of switching functions, and that's the thing that makes me think. But I may also be in the wrong of law, as judges have decided a long time ago, and perhaps this is a trend in the new Slovenian policy. Of course, I will not support the candidate that the debate, which is already well-known, is not to be held late in the afternoon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u155	Thank you. [[The ad in the hall.]] Comrade Kangler, please allow the National Assembly to do its work. Thank you. I'd like to take the floor with my colleague Milenk Ziherl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u156	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings to the Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I'll be happy to support Mrs. Barbara Brezigar myself. From today's debate, I have seen that she has seen more things, one of them is a political definition, but also her predecessors would not be able to say anything else, as it was also perceivedly politically defined. Furthermore, we have even a constitutional judge who comes from that generation that came out in tears from Belgrade. It doesn't bother me if we do work professionally and if legal certainty were guaranteed in Slovenia. With regard to professional references, I think the candidate has enough of them and there is no question. Then it was mentioned that the tender was the only candidate. There were also sometimes calls where the candidate was known, plus two or three because of the facade or because of the nicer one. Above all, I expect the situation to stabilise and my bad past experiences or fears will be resolved. In particular, I have in mind cases where shootings occurred several times in Ljubljana, Ljubljana was already similar to the small Wild West, and if the matter could be defined as a pig, it did not have to be prosecuted, as every pig is not yet and so on. [[...]] Well, even in Lescas, it was years ago that two guys got into a fight over a parking lot, a guy pulled a gun and shot another guy. Due to a very effective prosecution, the killer is still safe in Montenegro today. The main financial machinator also escaped justice and was only captured in the United States. I hope that his extradition will not continue for a long time, for in the meantime he is in prison in the United States and will at least remain there for that part of his life. Furthermore, in high positions in the judiciary, they employed their fellow passengers, passengers, with inadequate education, but with a salary, as if they had this education. However, the most sample case may be the murder in Running Man, where the suspect apparently continued with the cases and was found in a crime only in another country, where they showed what was effective - it was immediately on trial and immediately closed. There have been even more of these cases, and I hope that with the appearance of the new Attorney General these bad experiences from the past, these fears will be resolved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u157	Thank you. I would like to take the floor with my colleague, Miran the Run. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u158	Thank you very much. When we stressed in Social Democracy that this was a candidate for which the government coalition had decided, without any attempt to provide wider political support in any way, and that this was a fundamental reason why we would not give support, but we did not challenge the possibility that the majority would have the right to vote in accordance with the law, the right of the prosecutor, we were misunderstood why we were not talking about the specific issues and actions of the prosecutor and why we were actually taking this for granted. I would like to reiterate that we wanted to say this in particular and only because we do not believe the extremely important professional argument that the government majority is giving to this proposal. We do not object to the fact that the applicant for the Attorney General has performed important functions in the State Prosecutor's Office and that she would probably have no professional references for this reason. He's got them. But I'm sure she's not the only one with them. I'm sure there'd be someone else. And certainly, at least like an expert reference, its political definition is important. Once again, we do not mind, it seems to us in accordance with the policy that this ruling majority is leading, but we want to make this clear and make it clear that it would not be doubtful. My fellow Member, Dusan Kumer, is very right when he said in his debate that this is actually the logical continuation of this government's policy in all areas. All areas of public life want to be politically subordinated. That's what I say with all my responsibility. I will be happy if I am denied, but the current course of action towards possible dementia does not indicate. This is happening in public administration, it is happening more and more in the economy where you said the most that you would withdraw from the economy, it appears to a large extent. Unfortunately, this is also true in the area of justice. This is also demonstrated in the field of public speaking and journalism in relation to the Radiotelevision Act and could still be listed. That's the way, that's the only way to go, and it's probably not good and the best, and I want to draw attention to it. As far as this duality is concerned, the statement of two of your senior coalition officials at today's session shows. One was that we are aware of the political definition and we do not mind because we believe that, despite the political definition, it will work properly. Yeah, maybe, I don't want to say in advance that that's not true. But at the same time, another statement that the wrong political definition, which I do not like, means forward and a priori the wrong operation. What a duplicity, ladies and gentlemen! Why, if someone is my color, but the Priori will do well, if someone is of foreign colour, but the Priori will do bad. You yourself, you get yourself into such statements and you tell yourself how you're only about bluffing and big words proving something. Today, a few statements were made which, in addition to what I initially said on behalf of the parliamentary group, concern me about how the programme of the candidate lady, the future State Prosecutor's Office, will work, I think there is something else. You said it was bad that the prosecution's work was being evaluated. I agree with you. Just say the word and see who's the most in the last two years, except for the last six months, has evaluated the work of the prosecution, the courts and everything else. You, who are in the coalition today, have been in the opposition before. You were right about a lot of things, you were right, but you've evaluated it to the point that today it's called a new broom, which will change everything completely. And the conditions, the atmosphere, the public, for this new broom is wonderfully created. And what does some thinking mean in this atmosphere? Where was the different view of the role and functioning of the special prosecution group? Where was he? You remember. Should the powers of the Special Prosecutor's Group be written in law or should the Attorney-General always give an opinion on what he can give to the Special Prosecutor's Group and to the work of the Special Prosecutor's Group? At that time, the view prevailed that this should be prescribed in the law, because this cannot be dependent on every single decision, could also be political, not only professional, current state attorney general or prosecutor. Today, Mrs Brezigar advocates this right of free judgment. I don't think that's good. You claim that it is wonderful and right that in the future there will no longer be a division of cases by belonging and by logic also by alphabetical order and similar, but that they must get the best cases by the best prosecutors. In principle, this can be agreed upon and looks very nice because successful things will be resolved. But it can also mean something else, of course, to give the issue where I want concrete political guidance and decision-making to the one that I know will follow in the future. And vice versa, give someone else what will follow another political direction. Be aware that this is not necessarily a good policy, and that is how you blindly defend it. Finally, I should say that these are all the reasons why I think it would not be because of concrete work, but because of the program, because of the atmosphere, because this candidate has said nothing about the responsibility and independence of the prosecutors, but about everything else, it is right to think that this candidate is not supported. And in the end, you mentioned in general that some of us had warned of inappropriate evaluation of individual work. I too have been among those, and today I have not assessed the individual behaviour of the candidate lady as the Attorney-General. That's why it doesn't apply to me and it was right for you to say it right. But there is something else to say, and yet there are differences in these estimates. When we go to the Constitution, we know that I have been most opposed to the fact that someone who enjoys immunity to a voice or opinion expressed in a particular trial may not be able to perform a function as a result of this particular trial. I'm still saying it's unacceptable. However, you need to know that as far as the prosecution is concerned, this independence is to this extent, and this immunity is not because the role of the prosecutor is different. Although his decisions are never final, it can be final if he rejects or fails to press charges, and it is not yet final because he can take over another because you have an injured person who can take over the pursuit instead of him and so on, but it is certainly not final. However, if it does, it is not definitive because, thank God, we still have a court and do not pretend that everything can end only at the level of prosecutors. The debate that I have heard from respected coalition colleagues today has convinced me that it is only right that we have warned that this is an outstanding political candidacy and that it is right that we have said that we will not support this candidate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u159	Thank you, Comrade Potsch. I'd like to take the floor with my colleague Stan Pike.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u160	Thank you for your word. Hello, Mr. Secretary, greetings and Members of Parliament! I will always strive for the rule of law, which means respect for the laws. It follows that we must all be equal before the law, which has not always been confirmed in practice. In order for the rule of law to be implemented in life, it is also necessary to have good prosecutors who carry out very important work in the prosecution process. It is essential that prosecutors are independent of daily policy. Our country needs prosecutors like that, especially their general leader. The proposal by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to appoint Mrs Barbara Brezigar to the post of Attorney General of the Republic of Slovenia is more than good. I don't doubt her expertise. She turned out to be just like she was abroad. I believe it will bring a new wind into the prosecution's office, even though it has already been said today that it will not be only the smoking thieves that big fish will come along. This is particularly true in the area of economic crime, as I think it is the greatest void. I also believe that under her leadership, a shameful cabinet full of established writings will not happen again. In the opposition's debates, I noticed that the candidates are manifesting political bias. I do not agree with this on my own, as the candidate lady is not a member of any party. The opposition has a kind of double standard. When they themselves ran politically for the same or the same job, it was called professional. I have no doubt about her election. On this occasion, in her new job, I wish her the many successes that our society urgently needs. Welcome home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u161	Thank you for your opinion. I invite the last of our panellists, Comrade Joseph Jerovska, to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u162	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. What we are hearing from the opposition species today shows or explains that it has collectively and individually reached the expression of the subconscious theory of Jung. Two parties have made clear where they are taking political roots and some individuals as well. And look, it's no wonder you're pulling some political roots out of comsomol, and there was agitprop the main means of controlling people, scaring people, perplexing them. And today you have chosen the basic method of agitprop to make repeated lies acceptable to people. You've repeated lies, false accusations so often that you're sure you've reached your goal. It is now clear to me that, for example, Mr Saiovic, whom you have determined to insinuate on behalf of the party, instilling, lying, even giving him that he was involved in a number of affairs. Mr Saiovic, did the theory of subconscious in Jung break out by saying "I as a young and green MP in his current performance" in fact admitted that. You have appointed him to do this dirty work, you have not appointed experienced Members with multiple mandates in the internal - political, judicial sector, but you have asked him to do the work. Look, it's only now that I know what methods you're playing with. Mr Drnovšek, when he was an anti-candidate, did not allow himself to be as low as you have allowed here today, and despite the fact that the election campaign has carried out much more than a serious parliamentary debate, much more. For this reason, I am not surprised at today's horror of Mr Drnovsk over his former client. You have performed here as if Mrs Barbara Brezigar, a candidate, a professionally unwritten sheet, as if she did not have a brilliant prosecutor's career with many successes. I wonder what else we'd make up and what else we'd charge her with if we didn't come from a well-known partisan family. I'm sure they'd use the word collaboration as if he was a member of some collaborators, I'm sure they'd make it up, but it was just too much because of where it came from, you couldn't afford it. You mentioned contamination. I wonder if when she was once a candidate for the Attorney-General, why she was not suitable, she was virtually not active anywhere else than the prosecution. Did she not decide on Mrs Zdenke Cerar's allegedly deposited political affiliation in her favour? That was very tactful at the time, you did it very tactfully. Look, all these numerous demagogues, low-level moves, insinuations, perfidious performances you've enjoyed today. I am not surprised that Mr Pavliha, as a recognised justice, rather withdrew from the fact that he did not want to be present for this pussing which you had afforded. But no one had the courage to mention how the candidate behaved when they were also in the air in women's species, respect for human rights, democracy, how she acted as a prosecutor in the trials where she was accused. See, in 1999 the candidate lady sacrificed her successful career in principle and on a standstill, because the then state attorney general, who you say was not political, prevented her from bringing a complaint against an infamous criminal who, without the court's approval, obtained information about journalist Ranc and thereby grossly violated human rights. It was a terrible attack on journalists, on the independence of journalism in Slovenia. At that time you supported Mrs Zdenko Cerar in this act. Why are you officially two customers? I was then chairman of the Vice-Holmec Commission. There too, Mrs Zdenka Cerar supported Mr Fischer to retain the documentation from which this was also evident. Then we just got, uh, later. But Mrs Barbara Brezigar basically resigned because she did not want to, because she consciously chose to pursue human rights and democracy. Although this was a desperate attempt, it has not actually paid off in the sense of ruling the rule of law since then. You've enjoyed some of this. Mr. Potts said it wasn't definitive. It wasn't final at the time either. Mr Ranc himself took over the civil prosecution and succeeded in the court and proved what had been prevented by Mrs Cerarjev. No one mentioned that the applicant was the only prosecutor in the country that had successfully fought and brought to justice the case of economic crime: the case of Grubelič. It's perfectly clear to me, and I'm aware that many are afraid. Many fear what will happen to affairs, economic crime in the last 12 years, which of these will the prosecution be able to bring to justice. You are firmly convinced that all things will be obsolete, just as they have aged during this period. That the lawsuits or convictions in court would not be written in the future if they had a candidate who would meet the village's criteria for prosecution. Today's performance of some is shameful. You're ready to hide, overlook, spit, you're ready to do a very high-quality prosecutor's job. I'm afraid you're somehow in charge of truck drivers when these trucks knocked down Alendi. You want to stop a new wind in the D.A. with your obstruction and your watering. You believe that it is possible that you have the resources of power within you, informal political centres that could prevent this. I am firmly convinced that the candidate lady is so upright that, by what she has already proved in the public eye, with her personality moves, which have been brutally attacked today, but which has become only more popular in the public eye, she will actually achieve the job that the prosecution will do in this country or in every country. That the prosecution in the future will not be as political leverage as it has been in the past ten, twelve years, when a fair and principled prosecutorial work has actually been prevented. When, it seems, the prosecutor's folder often found a "stop this case" letter, as it did in the Udbov times. I hope these times are behind us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u163	Thank you, Comrade Jerovšek. However, I ask you, Comrade Jerovšek, that in further discussions you will have during today's meeting and other meetings you do not use offensive, negative personal markings, as you have afforded to one of the Members of the National Assembly in your speech. Now I invite you to the word [[...]] [[It's an ad from the hall.]] Mr Jerovšek, please allow me to continue the session. I now invite the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or the Minister present, Dr Šturm. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u164	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, for your word. Dear Members and Members! Let me briefly summarize the views of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. First of all, I would also like to give short answers to the views that have emerged in the debate so far. Part of the panellists carried out an analysis of more specific cases or specific cases, which were also dealt with by the applicant for the post of Attorney General. Let me first take a brief look at some of these observations. One such observation was that she was a member of the government of Dr. Andre Bajuk. Let me say that the Prosecutor's Law expressly provides and allows for the possibility that any state prosecutor may be placed either in the Ministry or also in the office of a minister. This finding is unfounded because it is contrary to the law in force. Then the observation that the case of Železnik had begun at the time of its conduct, when she was the perpetrator of the duty of the District Attorney's Office in Ljubljana. It has to be said that this was ten years ago. She was acting in 1995 for six months and cannot get to the length of the cases within six months. That's why I don't think these kinds of findings are justified. With regard to the apparent involvement in the Depal case, you should be told briefly that the court has found those involved in this proceedings for the innocent. They've been pardoned for all criminal charges, and this is the end of the matter. Perhaps even with regard to the fact that she was appointed to Eurojust and is now going back to work in Slovenia after a short period of time. Both functions are not incompatible. Mrs Barbara Brezigar is on Eurojust for a month. As soon as possible, she will return, but she will retain her post in Eurojust to carry out the most urgent matters in Eurojust until we elect a new representative or representative in Slovenia. The Ministry of Justice will issue the call as soon as possible after the election of the candidate in the National Assembly. Thus, there will be no time delays in this regard. Let me say one more thing about the fact that, in her role or presentation, she also mentioned that she would give the initiative to draft new laws. The initiative to draft new legislation is a constitutional right, everyone has the right to give initiatives of public interest, and these new laws certainly are. He knows the area, and with such an effort he can make a significant contribution to the answer to another question that I will now ask myself myself. But I come from a debate that has also taken place, where this has been discussed, forgive the expression that every big pig is not a crime yet. We agree with this finding that the principles of the rule of law make such a finding absolutely possible and in the spirit of the rule of law, but it is also necessary to ask ourselves a different question: Is a country in which 12 years of major swine fever are not recognized and defined as a criminal offence by law at all? And: Is not every initiative welcome then, especially from those who know the problem of improving these matters? Let me briefly summarize some of the positions that have arisen in addition to those that have not been defined to the specific actions of the candidate, but have only seen her political definition or her political performance or, I would say, performance in public life. This is also a constitutional right. The Constitution is explicit in this respect, even when it speaks of the right of prosecutors to appear in public life and to act as political figures and limits them only in that they must not be members of political party leadership. It's the only constitutional restriction. The considerations arising in this regard are, of course, not in accordance with the constitutional freedoms that this Constitution provides. I'm not going to talk about the candidate's professional references anymore. The government's backing her up. Whether the decision to elect her was correct or not will be decided by the public. If the prosecution's work in the coming years is better than it has been in the past, then it is also the support of this government. But if the work gets worse, then the criticism goes to this government. The government therefore supports the proposed candidacy.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u165	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary for your correct explanation. I hereby conclude the debate and put to the vote a proposal for a decision appointing Mrs Barbara Brezigar as the Attorney General of the Republic of Slovenia for a period of six years. Please, if you raise your hand up, believe me, you can't see from this position. Anyone else? Mr. Mogue, procedurally. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u166	Mr President, we ask you to give us 10 minutes of time to consult once again about the decision, given what the Minister has said.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u167	Mr Moge, I will certainly take your procedural proposal into account, but you will also be given the opportunity to have Members and Members present or explain their votes first, and then on behalf of your Group of Members, so I understand you, ask for a recess before deciding if you are empowered to do so. Mr. Rugelj, you wanted a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u168	Thank you. I want to explain my voice. Some political hints are hard to understand as if someone were afraid of something. I am sure that Mrs Barbara Brezigar will not hunt politicians for their statements or beliefs, but if she catches any economic criminal who may be involved in politics, it will not be bad for our country and not for our citizens. Mrs Barbara Brezigar certainly enjoys a lot of support among the people, as we all know that in many municipalities in Slovenia she even won the presidential elections. It is also inappropriate to say that we have better candidates or inappropriate ones. But why didn't these candidates come forward, because there was an official invitation to tender outside, and she volunteered on her own. I will support Mrs Barbara as Attorney General, but I am very sorry that this has not happened before, because it is too late. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u169	A colleague, Dušan Kumer, also spoke in explanation of vote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u170	Thank you for your word. I will, of course, vote against this election. In an explanation of the historical memory, because today it has been repeatedly mentioned here as an argument. The Grubelič case started in the previous totalitarian regime and ended during the recast presidency, and received an epilogue by today's Constitutional Court Judge. So it's the historical memory. For the first eight years, until 1999, Mr Drobnič was the Chief Prosecutor of State. So much in memory that you won't be able to tell in those 12 or 14 years what you couldn't do. And tandem - today's candidate and Mr Drobnič could do a lot on this state's prosecution. And thirdly, when this period of twelve, fourteen years is repeated, I will say in one such parable, which is linked to what I initially said, to the "filing" of human resources policy. For the first four years of democracy, you have been ahead of all SDS in power and power, but the last four years of democracy have been our democratic party in the government coalition, and there has been a "louft" in which some have been in power for 12 or 14 years. Of course there's more to LDS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u171	Thank you. A colleague of Pojbič signed up for the explanation of the vote. Everyone else, please, if they consider that they are not registered and that the word is only for those who have a microphone on.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u172	Mr. President-in-Office. Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. I, of course, support Barbara Brezigar's candidacy for the City of the Attorney General. Mrs Barbara Brezigar is a candidate with rich and professional leadership skills and experience, and knows the functioning of the prosecutor's organisation. Its programme, which it has submitted, is good and will lead to greater expertise and efficiency within the framework of the judiciary. I am convinced that responsibility must be established and appropriate supervision exercised at all levels of the state-deputy organisation, which Mrs Barbara Brezigar will certainly be able to carry out. Even to avoid cases of full cabinets of prosecutor's files, which have managed to prevent further treatment under the directives of the political councils. I believe that this situation will change and determine the reasons and purpose of this work, which has been directed against the interests of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. I am fully convinced, however, that Slovenians and Slovenians expect that clientism, alliances and political pressures, which have been a constant practice of the rule of the LDS and the United List in the past, will be cut off and that Slovenians and Slovenians will be able to retrust in the rule of law, which will guarantee equality before the law and that we will bring those responsible for the big pigs to trial once and for all. That's why I support Barbara Brezigar.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u173	Next one is a colleague of Kristian Janc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u174	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues, colleagues, distinguished minister! I believe that the government has judged and assessed well who to propose to this place, which, in my opinion, is very responsible and very important. She's the only candidate. Why are they gone? It's a difficult question. There were possibilities. The applicant shall fulfil all the conditions laid down in this town. I am sure that the public, Parliament and everyone will monitor this together and finally assess whether the work has been successfully done. As far as political recruitment, respectable colleagues and colleagues are concerned, every appointment in this national assembly is political, cannot be different, it is completely logical and we are not surprised that it is different. I hope and believe that the candidate Mrs Barbara Brezigar will be able to meet the expectations of citizens and citizens in this story, which I think will be very difficult and responsible in this baroque chair, and that she has these abilities, that will be able, and that with her team in the prosecution she will succeed in what we will support here today, that we will appoint her and, of course, put her on this chair and these fulfilled expectations that many citizens and citizens have, and that she will set an order for all alike. I hope that it will be successful in doing so, and we will eventually assess this through a mandate that will also be passed on to this national assembly and later. Thank you very much. Of course I'll back you up.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u175	Comrade Lakhovnik, are you ready?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u176	Yes, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! When it comes to Mrs Barbara Brezigar, any thesis is that it is a politically undeclared, non-party candidate, of course, put to great question. The distinguished lady played a very recognizable role in the Depal village case, and the distinguished lady was a member of that famous Bajuk government, which made a number of political changes, from cleaning lady to state secretaries in individual ministries. Dear Mrs Barbara Brezigar, if I recall correctly, has even run on the list of the largest government SDS party now, and the distinguished Mrs Barbara Brezigar has run for president of the country with the support of the Slovenian Coalition, now the largest government parties of SDS and New Slovenia. And I don't know why you're wondering how she's the only candidate. Yes, because there is no state prosecutor in this country at the moment. Second thing. As far as expertise is concerned, gentlemen, here is the big black dot, the big black dot, the appointment of Mr. Miran Ironman as head of the economic department of the District Attorney's Office in Ljubljana, who has forgotten a whole series of files in the closet. We agree that he was working very badly. But who named him? Dear Mrs. Barbara Brezigar. You know what? And no one can deny it. You can support her candidacy, just don't say she's a non-party candidate, and don't say she's in a professional sense flawless, because it's just the appointment of this prosecutor who forgot a whole series of files in his closet that's a pretty big black dot. That is why, of course, I will not support the distinguished lady. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u177	Comrade Jerovšek, I once asked you to allow me to lead the meeting. As far as you are concerned, Comrade Lahovnik, do not use the Institute of Voice Explanation and then do not invite others to follow you or anything like that, the Institute of Vote Explanation, give your opinion, your decision, the reasons for your decision, why for or against. But Dr. Pavel Gantar has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u178	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Although reason resists, I had some inexplicable inner impulse, some impulse to explain my voice despite resisting reason. I would certainly say first of all that it is clear that the prosecutor or state prosecutor, the general future, that no one can deny her constitutional right to be involved in politics, but when she is a politician, has crossed some threshold, has taken over some backpack and even if she wants to, she will not be able to work without her backpack. Zdenka Cerar, if I may mention her, today she can no longer become the Attorney General, even if she somehow wanted to, because she has already crossed the political border. We understand that, and that's not clear to your coalition. This is what I wanted to say, Mr Minister, in my explanation of the voice, which I must continue with this, and with this I will further explain my voice that I will not vote for Mrs Brezigareva, that one of the most important sentences of psychoanalysis of the 20th century has been spoken by the well-known theorist Lakane, that it is unwittingly structured as a speech. In this he wanted to say that the speaker sometimes said, Mr Kokalj, what he did not mean to say, simply put, he also said what he had not said, that he had said something that he did not want to say. And today this sentence needs to be changed. Following today's performance by Mr Jerovšek, it must be said: It is unknowably structured as Jerovšek. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u179	My colleague Aurelio Yuri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u180	Thank you. Tomorrow morning, colleagues from the ruling majority, you bring us to a meeting of the law on RTV, which includes a decade for the political cleansing of someone who can enter the world of RTV. So, a decade when it wasn't supposed to be that, not in the parties, not the mayor, not the MP, not a lot of other things, but at the same time you're proposing a candidate who's clearly politically defined. Until now, I know that he was one of the state's attorneys, who was clearly politically defined, Mr Drobnič, then Mrs Cerarjev, whom I did not really know which political option belonged to until she became Prime Minister. Today you are proposing again a name that is certainly whatever you are turning, politically defined. That is why, of course, I will not give my vote for this candidacy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u181	The word is Jakob the Presbyterian.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u182	Thank you so much for saying that. I will vote in favour of the proposed candidate. It bothers me, I must say, today at least some of the discussers have this rally euphoria either for or against, as if we love, I don't know who the President of the United States of America is. I fully support what the minister said before. He listed, of course, the fact that the call was that she applied as a candidate, that we have today a process of election or appointment and, of course, as a candidate for which I believe she will be elected, let us give her the opportunity to show how the prosecution should be led and, of course, to be evaluated in a few years or years or a few years or at the end of the term. I'm sure she'll do her job well. First of all, I see this as a professional task, so I'm going to give her my voice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u183	Thank you. We are now moving on to a procedural request from the Liberal Democracy. Mr. Squeakle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u184	Let me explain my voice. I think today's discussion is really rallying. But the rallyinga is because it also writes: "If the political leaders in our country accept the assessment that there is a need to make a lot of changes in the state prosecutor's office and show political will and interest in the quality work of the state prosecutor's organisation, because the executive and also the legislative branch of the government will support the changes in the legislation, then I am prepared with my candidacy to establish my powers and knowledge." This is Mrs. Barbara Brezigar's text. It requires us, the legislative authorities, to support the amendment of legislation and then it will be ready to go on its path, where it will establish its powers and knowledge so that state prosecutors will gain the greater respect that this institution is supposed to have. Before that, in her programme, this is the last sentence of the programme, she wrote down a whole bunch of insinuations without a single number and because the candidate for the Attorney General dictates what the legislative, executive power should do, and not only proposes, I cannot support the candidate lady. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u185	On the basis of a request from the LDS Club, I shall give a 10-minute recess due to a consultation within the LDS Group before the vote. We continue the meeting at 4.25 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u186	Dear Members and Members! We're continuing our adjourned session. I ask the LDS representative to give an opinion if he so wishes.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u187	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. After a short consultation, we have determined that we will not support Mrs Barbara Brezigar's election as Attorney General at the Liberal Democracy Chamber. In fact, the Minister's responses have further convinced us that the government, through this proposal and the National Assembly, is likely today, by election, to send a clear and unequivocal political message that the work of state prosecutors and the Prosecutor's Office will be a political decision of the government and thus can be passed and over the law. We fear that and we oppose that. At the same time, we estimate that Barbara Brezigar is a person, if I may say so, of the highest political rank, a politician who belongs in the circle of some of the most recognised and well-known politicians in Slovenia. She was a minister, she was running for president of the country, and in our opinion she crossed a threshold that could still be defined as a vehicle for a public function without excessive political connotations. He's carrying these connotations with him. In our opinion, if I may say so, Barbara Brezigar has a political backpack that is too large and too heavy for the function she wants to perform. And all those you choose today, you're gonna have to help her wear that backpack.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u188	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate and put to the vote the proposal for a decision appointing Mrs Barbara Brezigar as the Attorney General of the Republic of Slovenia for a period of six years. We're voting! The vote is closed. I note that 71 Members and Members attended, 44 to 25. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 25.]] I note that the assembly adopted and appointed Mrs Barbara Brezigar as the Attorney General of the Republic of Slovenia for a period of six years. We move on to the next item - C point - PROPOSAL OF AGREEMENT ON THE PREMIUM RELIEF OF THE FINANCE FINANCING FINANCING FINANCING FINANCING OF INVIDENTIAL AND HUMANITARIAN ORGANIZATIONS IN THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA. The proposal was presented by the Council of Foundations for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia in agreement with the Council, proposing that it be mag. Tsveta Uršič will be relieved of the position of Director of the Foundation. Would you like a representative of the foundation council? [[He doesn't want to.]] The proposal addressed the Commission's mandate-holder as the working body and presented a proposal for a decision to the assembly. From the parliamentary groups, Mrs Barbara Žgajner Tavš has the word, which I do not see in the Chamber. There are no other panellists. We are therefore moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia gives its consent to the early resolution of mags. Cveta Uršič, Director of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. Of the 68 Members and Members present, 67 voted against none. [[The vote was 67.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. We turn to the following, Č POČKO - a proposal for a decision on the composition and appointment of the President, Vice-President and members and alternate members of the Commission of Inquiry of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for the determination and assessment of the factual situation, which may be the basis for deciding on the political responsibility of the holders of public functions in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, at the Ministry of Justice and the Supreme State Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Slovenia with regard to the exercise of control under the State Prosecutor's Office Act (Official Gazette RS, No. 110/02, officially consolidated text), to amend legislation and other decisions in accordance with the constitutional powers of the National Assembly. The proposal for a decision was submitted by a mandate-holder committee for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the President of the Commission, Mr Franc Sušnik, to present the report. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u189	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! The preparation of the decision on the management and composition of the first commission of inquiry in this mandate has taken a considerable period of time for the Commission of Elections, so I think that the procedure and the way in which we came to this decision should be explained in more detail. At its 4th meeting, on 23 March 2005, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, at the time of the parliamentary inquiry into the functioning of the Prosecutor's Office, commissioned a mandate-holder committee of the National Assembly to draw up a proposal for a decision on the composition and appointment of an investigative commission in accordance with the content of a specific parliamentary inquiry. On this basis, I have asked the heads of the parliamentary groups to submit to the Commission a proposal on the number of representations of the individual parliamentary group in the composition of that commission of inquiry, as well as proposals for candidates for the president, the Vice-President and the members and alternate members of that commission of inquiry. I also pointed out in this regard that the members of the panel should take into account that the request for a parliamentary inquiry has been forwarded by the Council of State and that, as a result, each parliamentary group may request that there be a proportionate number of members or their deputies in the Board of Inquiry in view of the number of representations of the parliamentary group in the National Assembly. However, on the basis of the first paragraph of Article 6 of the Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Investigation, the Group may cancel membership or representation on the Board of Inquiry. The above-mentioned Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Investigation also provide that each member of the Board of Inquiry shall have his own deputy, who is a member of the same parliamentary group, and the national assembly shall appoint a President and a Vice-President of the Commission of Inquiry from among its members. On the basis of the responses and proposals submitted by the parliamentary groups, the Commission on Elections at its 7th meeting, on 14 April 2005, agreed on a proposal for a composition of the Commission of Inquiry. We therefore propose that the numerical representation of the parliamentary groups should be the following. SDS Group - 4 members and 4 alternate members of the Commission of Inquiry; LDS Group of Members - 3 members and 3 alternate members; Social Democrats Group of Members of Parliament - 1 member and 1 alternate member; Nova Slovenije Group - 1 member and 1 alternate member; SLS Group of Members of Parliament - 1 member and 1 deputy member; SNS Group of Members of Parliament - 1 member and 1 deputy. Here it should be emphasized that the Member Group of DeSUS and the Members of the Italian and Hungarian national communities have cancelled their participation in the commission of inquiry in response to my call. At this meeting, the Commission of Elections also found that the proposals for the President of the Commission of Inquiry had been forwarded by 4 members of the group, and that 1 parliamentary group had forwarded the candidate for Vice-President. At the Commission's own meeting, two nominations for president were withdrawn. Thus, a mandate-holder commission of two of the proposed candidates for president, by a majority of the votes identified, drafted a proposal for a candidate for president and a proposed candidate for Vice-President by a majority of the votes identified as a candidate for Vice-President of the Commission of Inquiry. With regard to the proposed candidates, the discussion drew attention to the provisions of the Law on Parliamentary Investigation in the part of which the Member of the Board of Inquiry should not be involved. Taking into account the content of the parliamentary inquiry, according to representatives of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia and the Social Democrats, those Members against whom criminal proceedings are pending should not participate in the investigation commission. The view was expressed that the appropriateness of the proposed composition of the commission of inquiry before appointment should be verified in terms of compliance with the provisions of Article 3 of the Law on Parliamentary Investigation, with which the majority of the members of the Commission disagreed and, by a majority of the votes identified, formulated a proposal for candidates for president, for the Vice-President of the Commission of Inquiry. However, such a decision was not agreed, as I have already mentioned, by representatives of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia, who therefore temporarily withdrew all their proposed candidates from the commission of inquiry, which they did with a written proposal. Taking into account those proposals and the staff proposals of the sent groups, by a majority of the 12 votes and 5 against, the Commission has set out the text of the proposal for a decision on the composition and appointment of the President, the Vice-President and the members and alternate members of that Commission of Inquiry by not supporting the representatives of the LDS and Social Democrats' proposed decision, as I have already said. In point 1 of the proposed Decision, this Decision sets out the composition of the Commission, as already stated, 11 members and 11 alternates. In point 2 of that Decision, it provides for a concrete staff composition by not being proposed in the proposal for this Decision for the appointment of three members and three alternate members proposed by the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia on the basis of point 1 of this Decision. The third point of that Decision provides that the decision shall enter into force on the date of its adoption by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. On the basis of all that has been said, I propose to the National Assembly that the proposed decision be adopted and that we comply with the business provision that the State assembly should form an investigative committee no later than at the next meeting following the adoption of the decision to initiate the investigation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u190	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. In this regard, I would like to inform you that there has been a mistake in the announcement of the debate by the Socialist Group of Members because the Group of Members has by mistake announced the presentation of the Group's position and the debate by the Member on the point of 18d and not on that point, which is the point of 18th. I will take into account the warning given by the Social Democrats' Group in agreement with the President of the Assembly. The text is by the SDS representative, Mr France Sušnik again.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u191	Thank you very much. A well-respected choir. Allow me to present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group on the proposal for a decision. The Council of State has made a request on the basis of which, in accordance with the legislation in force, the National Assembly has ordered a parliamentary inquiry. In the Group of Members, we believe that matters in the judiciary which are subject to investigation and which are supposed to be the subject of an investigative commission can also be resolved in a different way. The Slovenian Democratic Party is constantly working towards the rule of law and its associated legal security. The process of protection of rights must be qualitative and concluded within a reasonable period of time, because it only makes sense. In this context, justice can have an important impact on the sense of legal certainty and the degree of development of the rule of law, and effective justice also provides an environment that enhances the competitiveness of the economy. A number of unsolved cases of corruption and organised crime, and last but not least the case itself, the Railways, point to the ineffective functioning of the justice system. The level of public confidence in justice is lower from year to year. Judicial backlogs, or the number of outstanding cases, have also contributed. This is one of the negative numerical indicators of the state of justice. In this regard, however, the State Prosecutor's Office plays a key role as a law enforcement authority, which needs to be adapted and trained to better prosecute new emerging forms of crime and organised crime. New forms of organised crime require specially trained and occupied prosecutors, capable communication with the whole society and with international institutions. The Public Prosecutor's Office should be reorganised in the direction of greater hierarchical responsibility for the work done. The problem of judicial cooperation with the police has also emerged. In this regard, it is essential to ensure a more effective work of the prosecution in the pre-trial procedure, namely cooperation with the police and its direction. It is only in this way that the prosecution can effectively help to raise legal certainty and raise citizens' confidence in the rule of law. In this regard, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we believe that the Ministry of Justice must take on the active leadership of judicial changes in cooperation with all branches of justice in order to ensure greater efficiency of the judicial system. In the opinion of the Council of State, however, the Commission of Inquiry is necessary, and it is therefore our duty to enable it to work effectively, which will lead to a solution and, as mentioned above, to the more effective functioning of state authorities and justice. The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group will support the proposal for a decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u192	Thank you very much. The position of the LDS Group will be given by Mrs Dara Lavtijar Bebler. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u193	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. A respected choir! I would like to present to you the position of the LDS Group of Members, and in this regard I would like to emphasise the following. The Law on Parliamentary Investigation in Article 3 provides that a Member may not participate in an inquiry committee if he or she is a person or a witness in a case under investigation, whether he or she has been with an investigator or his legal representative in a legal relationship, or has lived with him or lived with him in an extra-marital community, or if he or she is with an investigator or his legal representative in relation to a line up to any knee or sideline to the fourth knee listed or to the other knee listed. Then, if he was alone or one of the persons referred to in the preceding indent, he or she was the responsible person in the body or legal person whose activity is being investigated, at the time of the investigation. Then, if he has been or has been involved in any kind of criminal or other judicial or administrative proceedings or proceedings relating to an offence which is in direct connection with the subject matter of an investigation. If the circumstances are known when the Board of Inquiry is appointed, such a Member shall not be appointed to the Board of Inquiry. If such circumstances arise later or are revealed later, such a Member shall immediately cease to work on the Board of Inquiry and the President of the Commission of Inquiry shall immediately inform the National Assembly thereof with a proposal to dismiss such a Member and appoint another Member of the Commission of Inquiry. Where the circumstances referred to in the preceding paragraph relate to the President of the Commission of Inquiry, the National Assembly shall inform the Vice-President of the Commission of inquiry thereof. The Institute for the Disengagement of a Member shall be meaningfully summarised in accordance with the provisions of the rules on criminal proceedings. If you have read precisely a specific provision in the Constitution, it says that the investigating commission has the same powers as the judicial authorities in matters of investigation and investigation. However, the purpose of the exclusion is to ensure the impartiality of the investigation. Indeed, the law does not provide for a procedure for identifying those facts on the impartiality of the members of the Commission, and it is logical that it should be expected from individual parliamentary groups that have proposed members to the panel that these facts have been verified by themselves or that the candidates have at least asked about it. It is not surprising that individual members of the membership group have proposed candidates who have doubts about their impartiality. We are also surprised that these circumstances have not been established by a mandate-holder commission which, prior to deciding on the candidates, decided to grant immunity to at least some of these candidates. We are even more surprised by the fact that some candidates, who have doubts about impartiality, are also proposed to elect certain management functions, especially if we are aware that the individual in the management functions is later appointed by the Commission, in cases where there is doubt as to the impartiality of a member of the Commission, they are proposing to the national assembly its resolution. The request for a parliamentary inquiry has undoubtedly been motivated by personal problems and the intention to avoid the consequences of the criminal responsibility of a certain state councillor, and the ruling coalition has, in our opinion, supported such a parliamentary inquiry only for the expected political benefits. Once again, it is a risk that some candidates for members of the Commission may abuse the investigation to exercise their own interests. The Commission may, as the subject matter of the investigation is now being established, at any time direct the investigation also to the prosecution's conduct concerning the candidates mentioned. The latter, regardless of whether the Commission would limit itself in its investigation, would put pressure on the prosecutors and their decisions regarding the procedures in which those candidates were or were. Excuse me, Mr. Jerovšek, did you have anything to say? No, no, no. I'm sorry, I must have misheard. The proposed composition of the Commission and the proposal for the election of a leadership function raises us with suspicion of political trade, Members who until recently opposed the election of Mrs Barbara Brezigar as Attorney-General, expressed their support or did not oppose her. We are also convinced by the vote at a meeting of the Electoral Commission, and in return they may be able to control or pressure the work of those prosecutors who are being prosecuted for alleged criminal services. One of the messages that will be given by such a decision, or by the determination of an investigation, by the National Assembly to both State law enforcement authorities and the rest of the public, will be false or, it will read, "Political officials who have committed alleged offences or crimes have no point in persecuting them, as they may at any time require the investigation and supervision of the work of law enforcement authorities or prosecutors who conduct proceedings against them." In the LDS, when we removed candidates for membership, we wanted to draw the attention of the National Assembly to the above concerns, but in particular we wanted to have a mandate-holder commission, irrespective of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Inquiry, that is, that the National Assembly appoints a commission at its first next meeting following the determination of the investigation, in order to carry out a procedure to verify the admissibility of individual candidates in relation to the requirements of Article 3 of the Law on Parliamentary Inquiry. With this we have not renounced membership in the commission of inquiry, we are faced only with the fact that we choose greater or lesser evil. If we decide not to participate in the work of the Commission, we will not be able to draw attention to the abuses of the Institute of Inquiry if they occur, but if we cooperate, we will give such an unacceptable decision a kind of legitimacy. Therefore, on behalf of the LDS Club of Members, I propose that we take time to consider further, so that Members of this Commission, who have proposed certain members of this Commission, will reconsider and propose credible candidates, those candidates in whom a priori may be excluded from any potential doubt in their involvement or in their inappropriateness to participate as members of this Commission, and more so that they participate even as President or Vice-President of this Commission of Inquiry. But how are we going to do this procedurally, and I suggest that we agree on this in the course of the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u194	Thank you very much. Mr Miran Potrč has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u195	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. We will not undermine the proposal for the current composition of the commission of inquiry. The composition of the Commission of Inquiry and, above all, the proposed leadership, the President and the Vice-President of the Commission, do not, in our opinion, ensure that the Commission of Inquiry acts in accordance with the Law on Parliamentary Investigation in accordance with the competences of the National Assembly and that it respects the principle of the division of power, which is one of the foundations of democratic regulation in Slovenia. You all know that the Social Democrats' Group of Members had many questions and concerns about the actual foundations for the establishment of this Commission of Inquiry. This was based on criminal proceedings and the actions of prosecutors in a specific case against one state councilor. Such a foundation is unacceptable. If the National Assembly had followed the principles of the division of power in a consistent manner, it would not have set up an investigative commission on that basis. The Group of Social Democrats has done the most of all groups, which could have been at least minimally corrected by the decision to determine the investigation. You all know that the debate on the establishment of an investigative commission on the work of state prosecutors has shown how different you are in the National Assembly we represent the work of investigative commissions. For the majority of the coalition and for the Slovenian National Party, the National Assembly of Inquiry is not strictly bound by constitutional powers and the division of power, but is tasked with proving the unlawful conduct of prosecutors in specific criminal matters, which is not and is an intervention in the independence of the judiciary. With such aspirations, candidates from parliamentary groups are now proposed to the President and Vice-President of the Commission, who wish to influence the concrete conduct of prosecutors in concrete proceedings, which is contrary to the principle of the division of power. The Law on Parliamentary Investigation in its Article 3 provides, inter alia, that a Member may not be a member of the Board of Inquiry if he or she has ever been involved in a criminal or other judicial procedure directly related to the subject matter of an investigation. On this issue, the Commission of Inquiry was warned on concrete proposals for membership and leadership of the Commission of Inquiry, but did not want to do anything. It is clear, however, that all the members of the elected commission knew what this was about, but not on the basis of some secret facts, of which some members of the coalition were completely irresponsible and unfairly speaking, but we knew that it was a decision to allow prosecution against Mr Kovacic and Jelinčič, who were proposed to lead the investigative commission, which we had decided in the national assembly over the past six months. This is what we knew, Members of Parliament and Members, that is what the Slovenian public knew. There is no doubt that there are two questions. For the first time, the question is whether their membership in the commission of inquiry is formally possible. The electoral commission didn't want to judge this, if that's what we don't have the basis for. However, it would be right for the National Assembly to assess this, since this could harm the work of the Commission of Inquiry. In view of the fact that the Commission of Inquiry will examine all the actions of the Prosecutors under the mandate of 2000/2004, it is possible that Mr Kovacic and Jelinčič are involved in any case, i.e. not only as an accused but also as an expert, expert, injurer or otherwise, in any proceedings on which they will judge or have already assessed the conduct of the Prosecutors. If this is true, we should not appoint them today as the duty proposed. And the second question, if the first one is not justified, or even if it is not an indisputable formal reservation, is that I allow this option, but I do not place it as a claim, the National Assembly, the Democratic Party and the Slovenian National Party which have proposed candidates who are in the process, Mr Jelinčič is in several criminal proceedings, do not consider that there are no moral objections at least to the assessment of their proposals, that it would not be worth considering proposing candidates and candidates whom these two parties certainly have, who would not be able to detect any objectivity and thereby ensure the reputation and undisputed credibility of the National Assembly and its investigative commission. In doing so, I stress that it is particularly unacceptable that only Members and Members of the Coalition and Slovenian National Parties voted in order to elect such a composition of the Commission with such leadership. They have therefore ensured each other's election, and I think it is right to know who is responsible for such a commission's composition if it comes to it. The Group of the Social Democrats, in so far as it is concerned, has weighed whether to participate in the Commission of Inquiry and to seek to ensure, through its cooperation, at least the minimum legality and credibility of the Commission, or whether, due to the arrogance of the government coalition and the Slovenian National Party, it is possible that it may lead to the failure to set up a Commission. After careful consideration of the arguments, we decided once again not to refuse to cooperate with the Commission, in order to assess the legality of the Commission's conduct, and at the same time not to give a basis to the government coalition and the Slovenian National Party to accuse us of not participating in the investigation because we do not want to identify the illegal situation and conduct of the prosecutions. This is, for the Social Democrats and its Members and Members, the least objectively true among all the parties. Social Democrats have never had a minister of justice. It was held by Slovenian National Democrats, Liberal Democrats, Coalition Slovenia, Slovenian People's Party and now New Slovenia. And we've also never had a Attorney General. In addition, Members and Members of the Social Democrats have not been dealt with and even less convicted of any public prosecution, in short, of a crime dealt with by prosecutors. Therefore, the Social Democrats also objectively want to assess the functioning of the prosecutions, and therefore we will not allow anyone who wants to influence their behaviour by playing a part in the commission to falsely accuse us of their interests. Therefore, we do not withdraw our participation in the commission, but we believe that its composition, especially its leadership, is inappropriate, controversial in terms of parliamentary investigation laws, and that it cannot ensure the impartial functioning of the Commission. Therefore, the Social Democrats' Group is entirely formal, and this is also considered as a response to the warning from Ambassador Darja Lavtizar Bebler, in accordance with Rule 74 of the Rules of Procedure, that the debate and decision on the matter under consideration should be postponed to the next meeting. This can be done in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. If the Commission on Elections is to draw up a proposal by then, this postponement can also be called an extraordinary meeting on Friday, because we have no reason to delay the establishment of the Commission. We believe, however, that it is also necessary to give the SDS and SNS parliamentary groups a chance to reconsider and propose other candidates for president and vice-president of the Commission. In doing so, I should say that we are aware of the provisions of Rule 5 of the Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Investigation, after which the Commission of Inquiry is to be appointed at the first meeting at the latest after the adoption of the parliamentary investigation act, so that no one can reveal ignorance to us. However, we believe that the determination of the composition of the Commission a few days later, which may otherwise be assessed as a formal breach of the deadline, means much less than the possible determination of a commission contrary to the law, which is a serious material breach which may affect its work. The possibility of a re-assessment should therefore be implemented. The government majority and the Slovenian National Party responsible for the proposed composition of the Commission should therefore be given the opportunity to re-evaluate their conduct and propose new candidates if so decided. If they do not support this proposal, let it be known that they do not wish to propose a Member and Members who cannot be read as being biased, and should therefore be responsible for the proposed composition of the Commission. We will not vote for the unacceptable composition of the Investigative Commission of Members and Members of the Social Democrats. In this case, let the government coalition and the Slovenian National Party, which have common interests regarding the actions of prosecutors, appear to have a common interest. However, the Social Democrats Group will monitor the work of this Commission and will also have its members, try to influence the prevention of illegal behaviour, this is the evaluation of work in specific cases of the work of prosecutors. However, if this is not possible, it will come out later on the basis of evidence of illegal operation, even if this would make it impossible for it to operate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u196	Thank you very much. Mr Josip Bajc has the floor on behalf of the SLS. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u197	Dear Mr Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! On behalf of the Slovenian People's Party Parliamentary Group, I would like to read the name of the Commission that we are discussing today, namely the composition and appointment of the President, Vice-President and members and alternate members of the Board of Inquiry of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for the determination and assessment of the actual situation, which may be the basis for deciding on the political responsibility of the holders of public functions in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia at the Ministry of Justice, the Supreme State Prosecutor of the Republic of Slovenia, as regards the discharge of supervision under the State Prosecutor's Law, the amendment of legislation and the second decision in accordance with the constitutional powers of the National Assembly. Why did I read that? For one simple reason, otherwise, colleagues and colleagues must know the law on parliamentary investigation, which states in Article 3, the first indent, "a Member may not participate in the investigative commission if he is an investigator or a witness in the case under investigation." From the title and names of today's Commission, as well as the debate and knowledge of some of the procedures that run against some of the proposed candidates in this committee, I cannot tell you, nor are the discussers who represented the views of some of the parliamentary groups convinced me that, not my colleague Kovačič, but my colleague Jelinčič are not an investigator, nor are they present in the specific area that this investigative commission is supposed to address. And there's something else I'd like to read. Once again, you must know these provisions, fourth indent, because you have read some other indents. The fourth indent of Article 3 states: "A Member shall not participate in the Board of Inquiry if he or she has been involved in or has been involved in any criminal or other judicial or administrative proceedings or proceedings in an offence which is directly related to the subject matter of an investigation." As far as I know, not my colleague Jelinčič, who, according to one of the predecessors, is subject to a lot of criminal investigations or more, and Mr Kovacič, who, I think, is being investigated, is being investigated. Now, here's the thing. For all this reason, the Slovenian People's Party's Group supports the decision on the composition and appointment of the President, the Vice-President and the members and alternate members of the Commission of Inquiry. With regard to the dilemmas, questions and claims made on the home working body, as well as today from some of the debates, in the Group of Members, we consider that the composition of the Commission of Inquiry is determined by the Law and Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Investigation and the Rules of Procedure on the Work of the National Assembly. In doing so, we add that all members of the National Assembly are equal and responsible for the functioning and performance of the duties of a Member of the National Assembly. The groups of Members shall be autonomous and, in accordance with the rules, shall have the right to appoint their Members to work bodies as well as to committees of the National Assembly, which shall carry out individual duties and functions of the National Assembly on behalf of them. This also applies to investigative commissions. Any Member who is not a member of the Commission of Inquiry shall also have the right to have an eye on the evidence collected in the parliamentary inquiry, as for all other material necessary for its work or for the exercise of the function of a Member of the National Assembly, its working body or the Commission. Members and thus the National Assembly shall also exercise their supervisory function through the Commissions of Inquiry. The law also provides for a parliamentary inquiry into a matter of public interest in order to identify and assess the actual situation that may be the basis for deciding on the political responsibility of public function holders or for amending legislation in a particular area and other forms of decision-making by the national assembly under its constitutional powers. The law in Article 3 also provides which Member may not participate in the commission of inquiry - and I have previously cited the first and fourth indents of Article 3 of the Law on Parliamentary Investigation. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we also consider that each Member and the Group of Members are autonomous both in their decision-making and also in appointing Members to the Commission of Inquiry, which is why Member groups themselves are so politically and morally responsible for their decision and for their actions. Parliament can act democratically and Members can fulfil their mandate in elections only through independent and responsible decision-making. The supervisory function of Members and Parliament is also linked to independent action, and it is therefore right to leave the individual parliamentary group to appoint its members to the Commission of Inquiry and this will also have to be respected by the National Assembly. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we expect the designated Commission of Inquiry to carry out its work effectively and to fulfil its task and expectations for the applicants and the public. The results of the research and any final findings can effectively contribute to the more efficient work and functioning of the justice system in our country. Therefore, the Members of the Slovenian People's Party will support the proposed decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u198	Thank you very much. I also invite Mr Bogdan Barovic to give his position to the SNS. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u199	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues, colleagues. It is interesting to listen to the debates and it is right that everyone has an opinion and an opinion, but I imagined that we were talking about the formation of an investigative commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, not Mr Jelinčič and Mr Kovacic. They were involved, but there were more words about them and their sins than there were about the work of this commission. Why does this committee want this committee anyway, why should this commission be? If you set up one structure that you want to talk about, everyone has the right to talk about, so this House is better for us to talk than for people on the road, and there are several thousand. Today we have heard words about the suitability of these two candidates. I'll start here. As far as I know, it is likely that you, your respected colleagues with the new name Social Democrats, the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia and everything else - were the only candidates who applied for the Vice-President. I don't know why it wasn't you or you who appointed someone vice president. He was the only candidate. First time. Now let's get to the beginning. The Council of State is the one who is to blame or not to blame for this commission being formed. And this request of the Council of State has been given to the National Assembly and the National Assembly will decide on it. That's a fact. I'd very much like to say one comparison because we talked about people. Criticism also goes to the Social Democrats in this case to the Slovenian Democratic Party. You're even trying to eliminate immunity. But we have another proposal for a new Social Democrats saying that immunity should be recognised exclusively for the words spoken here. Now I ask you, let's say that the victory of the Jelinčič on April 27th, which I still call the Day of Liberation, will be spoken in Metlika as a member of the national assembly to which he was invited, and someone there will not like what he will say and will sue him. And this National Assembly, on the proposal of the Social Democrats, doesn't care what the MP of the National Assembly said as a speaker outside this room, even though he did act as an MP, even though he's performing at the holiday and someone can sue him peacefully and we won't acknowledge his immunity on the basis of the ideas you have. Okay. So what's in here, what's out there, doesn't apply. Well, now let's turn around, turn around, and now suddenly all of a sudden what someone, supposed to be Jelinčič, is supposed to do outside, which you don't care about here as a Member, but it's important that you don't work here. Is that fair? So whatever the Member says outside, it doesn't matter, immunity doesn't apply, but whatever he's done outside, which has nothing to do with the National Assembly, but of course it's blasphemous. If that's equality, if that's comparable, then I don't know! Explain to me how. Let's move on. I'd like to say that if we were full of halls, let those who didn't face a situation in the '50s, '60s, '40s of their lives, when they were, let's leave the criminal code that moment, not in the car, the cars were too fast, they were parked wrong. How many of these people here who are completely clean are absolutely clean? These are the only candidates in this logic for the members and leadership of this commission. I'd like to see those hands who are completely clean. Who? I've paid at least seven misdemeanors for speeding, so I have no chance of being a member. Or even if I didn't pay because I was assessing that I was in a hurry to get to work, I would come or through a misdemeanour I could come or have another matter under the influence of the penal code. But I stick to one principle for all of you, from you first here on the left, to you last: everyone is innocent until he is proven guilty. And don't say today it's Kovacic's fault that he's guilty today of Jelinčič until it's proven when proven. Now I'm going back to the subject we had a little while ago. I am talking about Article 24 of the Rules of Procedure of State Audits. There can be a calm president, and it can be eliminated if he has an aunt, an uncle, a fourth, a fifth, a sixth, a seventh knee, I don't know what else. Steady! But in this case, someone has to be as clean as a tear. Let us be honest and principled and drive the same path! Example. Ladies and gentlemen, you have appointed Kovačič, Yelinčič. Jelko Kacin, legally convicted of a crime, was still an MP, even a defence minister, if I am not mistaken, now he is a MEP - without any comment. Drago Kos, several times this way, Depala you, Ranc, head of the anti-corruption office. Marko Pogorevc, twice visited at the time of the Director General of Police - no comment. Mirko Bandelj, the defendant for the Mirage case, the Secretary-General of the Government - no comment. Adolf Zupan, convicted, due to an error of the higher court, is concerned about the statute of limitations - there are no comments. Vika Potočnik, who was accused of being the mayor of Ljubljana, no one said he had to resign. Dimitri Rupel, this one, his client at the time did not ask him to resign as Foreign Minister. Borut Likar, accused of issuing official secrecy when he was the Director General of the Police - no comment. No one, except Mr. Jelk Kacin, has been legally convicted. And according to the information I have - which I have and have acquired, but I will withdraw as my client champion - even the victory of Jelinčič was not condemned. He hasn't been convicted yet. The SFRJ thing is erased and irrelevant. The logic - the conviction in itself means nothing. If the logic against the Victory of Jelinčič applies, then the presumption of innocence provided by Article 27 of the Constitution shall no longer apply. And there's something else I'd like to say. If this logic were to be applied, then anyone could be prevented from filing an unwarranted complaint against him, let there be an appeal. It is then stated that it is not suitable for a particular function because it is dealt with by the prosecution. It's perfectly easy to do. And last but not least, because we have an exclusivity. The definition is mentioned, it is mentioned in the law, it is mentioned in the Rules of Procedure - it is mentioned! Just as the President of the Court of Auditors - the content we have discussed before - can be eliminated for this and this can also be eliminated by the person on this committee. Do you, ladies and gentlemen, think 400-400 and something else, don't you, I mean, we all know this - based trials with the prosecutor is just a coincidence? If so, tell me why. Then be at least that correct and say that this prosecutor was lazy, that he was not working at all, or that he was - that he was supposed to be okay - maybe he was aware that he had hidden these 400 files a little bit. But he probably saved about 30 of them. And now, do you think that the 400 hidden, based cases that are obsolete in both the prosecution and the criminal proceedings will be, or do you think that man will go and check the work of that prosecutor? He's not stupid! Thank God, the thing is out of date, I'm not to blame, I'm not to blame, I'm not to blame. Who's going to prosecute this prosecutor, who out of 400 cases has aged 30, I, "who was in the 30's," if I was, talking in the notes, I'll sue him, I'll prosecute him. These are perfectly logical things. When I have reviewed such reports, which have been given and seen and read and read in the press, and of course also the meeting and all assumptions, ladies and gentlemen, let us once again be correct. Then let's go like this, if you've already suggested, let's say, and if this works out, then I'll really want to move this thing for two days on Friday, because we can't save it in two days, if it's so hot, we can't do it in two days, but if, then I'm gonna say, raise your hands to those who are clean as tears. They're the only ones who have that option. Today we are talking about the supervision of the work of the judiciary, of the prosecution, of the supervision and of the writing, but it pains me most not to speak of the terms "infected", of the "contaminated" may be that it is a legal term, but you know, in some democratic countries they do not allow such expressions. A respected colleague of the Social Democrats, Potch, said he was a witness to lies. Well, lying can be better said that someone has lost touch with the truth. Someone's lost contact with the truth, let's be right, let's be fair. You can't say that someone is infected, contaminated, that they're lying if you don't have evidence. And we're back there. But what pains me most is that someone, or Mr. Kovacič or Jelinčič, will intimidate the prosecutors in a specific case. All right, if this weight, which was said to be Kovačič or Jelinčič, is going to intimidate the prosecutors, then I calmly say that the one who is clean as a tear is going to buy credit cards from the prosecutors. Now let's talk about who's right. I can calmly, if I'm clean as a tear, go, make everything right and everything "fine" and I'll buy credit points and I'll be back to the 400 files that were a little forgotten. And it's going to get old. Let us not accuse ourselves of the thought of a colleague and a colleague! We're talking about forming a commission. There have been proposals for presidents and vice-presidents. The conclusions of the Election Commission were given. The proposal is for Mr Kovacic and Mr Jelinčič. Mr Potč said that Social Democracy would be, and that is fair, stayed with, honestly, to stay with and supervise. Well, look at the work to be done. I am sure that, especially Victory, Mr Kovačič will also be excluded if he is proven to be in such a state of procedure in the prosecution process in such a state that he will have to be excluded. And it's okay, he'll get out and be replaced by someone else. We all have that chance. These are the predictions you have. It's not fair and it's not fair and no one's making this up and no one wants to intimidate anyone, ladies and gentlemen! Otherwise, yesterday's conversation was very interesting between Mr Kovacic and Mrs Lovtijar Bebler. Very interesting. I'm saying what's true again. Whoever's innocent, who hasn't been proven guilty, is innocent until the moment he's proven guilty. And last but not least, it's not demagogy. That's the truth. We are Members of the Constitution equal, we have the same rights and, above all, equal duties. And the first one who will be ashamed, and I'll make it clear which one will be ashamed of him, if that's not true, and I'm honest with you, I will, but I won't. I won't. Because I don't look at fear, don't get credit points to go forward. But I've always been, and I'll make sure that the best supervisor is the man who has tasted the injustice. Everyone knows that. That's what we all know about history. We know what has happened in history, and we can go back to World War II, which is very popular right now, who is the one who will accuse the crimes of Nazis and Nazis? Who? The one who is clean, or the one who has been hurt, and thank God he is alive? Who? And don't sneak up on a colleague and a colleague! Let's be honest, let's open the cards, let's say Bob Bob. If you don't trust us 90 here, who do you expect, he will trust us 90 from all over Slovenia, where 2 million people live? Who's gonna trust us? Every one of us has a stain on us. Everyone's got one. A mark, a small one. Everyone commits a crime. Everyone. That's why we're not all criminals right now. On the election committee you should seriously sit down, or if you sat down, you did, and the decision was as it was. For the President and the Vice-President. And this thing is here today. And let's make this decision. Let's not move, let's not move. The Council of State has made a request, we have to meet it, the monitoring commission will be formed. We have a proposal for a President and a Vice-President, let's decide whether or not to do so. Even if there's a "no," it'll still be an opportunity. But this is not an opportunity to discredit two people. I did not discredit anyone in my speech, I hope, except the state prosecutor, who accidentally missed 400 and some other files that we now want to check and see why he missed it, except for him, but I hope it's justified. And let's not discredit people, but let's face it, the proposal is, let's decide yes or no. If not, you will draw up other proposals and opinions. I told you the truth, according to my judgment, and honestly. And I hope, colleagues and colleagues, you can imagine it. Once again, no one's guilty until he's innocent until proven guilty. And we 90 colleagues can think differently, but we have to trust each other because we live together from day to day; today from 10. God knows what time it is. Tomorrow and Friday and beyond. And we are the face of this people and the people must believe us. But if we fight each other, he'll never believe us.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u200	Thank you very much. This concludes the views of the groups of Members. In view of the position of Mr Potrč, who mentioned and also made an oral proposal in his debate to postpone the discussion or decision on this item or, as the Rules of Procedure states, one of the following meetings, I ask him whether he is thinking only of the debate, or just of the decision-making process, or of both. In any event, if it insists on this proposal, it must be decided by the State Assembly by a vote. So I ask you again, I ask again for your proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u201	Mr. President! My proposal is a formal one for a decision by the National Assembly. I, I think, suggested that before making a decision, because I think it would be appropriate for us to hear different opinions. But it would be better for us to be willing to do so now and not to be convinced in the way we just did because we are speaking through each other for a few more hours. But please make a formal decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u202	Then I'd like to ask you, if formally, once again, to say [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u203	My proposal was, "Therefore, the Group of Social Democrats proposed, in accordance with Rule 74 of the Rules of Procedure, that the debate and decision on the matter under consideration be postponed - our proposal is - to the next meeting." And then I said that because of us, the next extraordinary meeting could not necessarily be a regular one, in accordance with Rule 5 of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u204	Thank you very much. So if you insist on this proposal, then the National Assembly must decide by vote. This is according to Rule 74 of the Rules of Procedure. Allow me, please, to coordinate the meeting to be suspended in 10 minutes. Five minutes, good five minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u205	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sorry to say this for just 10 minutes, but the matter has been a little bit more complicated, so we've spent a little more time negotiating how to proceed in advance. Mr Potrč, on behalf of the Socialist Group of Members, proposed that the debate and decision on the investigative commission should be postponed to one of our next meetings. This is possible under Rule 74 of the Rules of Procedure, but we have also found that this is in conflict with Rule 5 of the Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Inquiry, which is also in force. And this Article 5 states: "The National Assembly for each parliamentary inquiry shall appoint a special investigative commission. The National Assembly shall appoint an investigative committee, as a rule, at the same meeting, at which it shall adopt a decision or act authorising a parliamentary inquiry and at the latest at the first next meeting." In the light of Rule 74 of the Rules of Procedure and in the light of Rule 5 of the Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Investigation, I cannot put this proposal to the vote by Mr Potræ. However, I propose that we decide whether to stop this point, continue on Friday, at the beginning of our extraordinary meeting, with this point, while the Commission on Immunity also meets, and say something about what has been said today in this debate. I will not repeat what was said in the debate. So, you've heard this proposal, and I think we've talked about it and we've come to this conclusion that it's not possible otherwise. However, I must put this proposal to the vote, the last one I have told you. Moreover, there is no debate on these proposals, but an opinion may be delivered on behalf of the Group of Members, no more than three minutes to the Group of Members. Does any of the parliamentary groups want a word? As a proponent for up to five minutes. Here you go, Mr. Potsch.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u206	Mr President, my opinion may be different, but I accept a compromise proposal. I'd like to tell my colleagues something. With this proposal, we do not want to interfere in any way with the autonomy of the parliamentary groups with regard to the proposals. Each parliamentary group has the right to propose, but we also have a second right to assess what and what this proposal is and what it will mean for us as a national assembly if we decide on it. Secondly, truly and most frankly, we do not want to discredit any of our colleagues. At the same time, however, we want to say that we are in a different position, not because of the fact that someone has committed a crime, we have all done it, but what our relationship is to the possible part of the prosecutors, because we are or are not in a potentially criminal procedure. Thirdly, believe me, we too can read the Constitution and respect the principle of innocence. But in this case, it is not a principle of innocence at all, but it is a matter of whether someone who can be evaluated can manifest partiality to him or whether it is right for him to evaluate his work. And our view is that it is worth considering if we want to have, at such an important point as the work of the Prosecutor's Office, the desire to achieve a realistic assessment of this work, with the desire to make progress, an appropriate composition. It is therefore worth reconsidering, and I propose that we adopt a modified proposal from Mr Vice-President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to do this on behalf of the delegation? Here you go. You said before. Mrs. Bebler.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u208	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your word. I would first say, on behalf of our Group of Members, that we support the proposal, as Mr Potrč just presented on behalf of the proposal. But we have another additional procedural proposal. In view of the fact that you have mentioned that the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and the Rules of Procedure of the Commission of Inquiry or Parliamentary Inquiry are in conflict, I ask whether the Secretary-General, or the Deputy Secretary-General here, may state which is the higher act in relation to the hierarchy of legal acts or whether "lex specialis" should be respected here, in accordance with the principle of "lex specialis", in order to take particular account of this Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary Inquiry, in order to make it clear whether this business complication cannot be avoided. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u209	I'd like to give you an immediate response, as the Assistant Secretary-General has told me. Rule 74 of the Rules of Procedure is general. However, the Special Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Investigation are special. Mr. Zagorac, on behalf of the SNS. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u210	Thank you for your word. Your Honors are here! Mr. Chairman. Perhaps when you announced the decision we are voting on today, you thought that this session, or this point, would continue at the same meeting on Friday, and not at the beginning of the extraordinary session. Did you mean this session? Because you mentioned that this point would be dealt with at the beginning of an extraordinary meeting, which you yourself had previously found not to be possible. As far as time goes by, I think that's enough. It is 6 days from the end of the KVIAZ meeting. Before that, a selection procedure was also under way. And in the Slovenian National Party, we really doubt that the Social Democrats and the Liberal Democrats will think about it by Friday and realize that the current proposal is a good one. Therefore, I see no reason for you to support such a proposal as you have made. We will, of course, vote against this proposal in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u211	Thank you very much. Let me get this straight. I thought that the continuation of this session, not as extraordinary, but because I knew that we were having an extraordinary session, I knew that we would all sit together in the same hall, so I missed it. I'm sorry if I said that wrong. Mr. Tanko, on behalf of the SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u212	Thank you very much. First of all, I must say that in our Group of Members we are not satisfied that you have interrupted the meeting on a procedural basis, because there was no such thing, I do not think there are any conditions. Secondly, we do not support this proposal, because we are assessing that we are not going to gain anything by doing so. And however well we turn this idea of reflection, this simply means that it interferes with the autonomy of proposing individual parliamentary groups, whatever. I think this is how commissions are set up, and there are other things that can't be done. Each parliamentary group has assessed and proposed the Members of the Parliament's Parliament from its list of Members. And if Members meet the criteria for running, even for elections to the National Assembly, if there are no restrictions and if they can then be named in any working body, then they can also be in this. After all, each Member shall have an alternate, which shall be replaced in cases where it is unable to carry out its task. We also provided for each one of us as a substitute or replacement. In short, we estimate that if we cut off the point and move it to Friday morning, we would not be able to gain anything at all, because our parliamentary group, if you challenge us, will not propose any new candidates. And I also estimate that, in this short time available, the mandate-election commission cannot do its work as one would expect. That is why we do not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u213	Thank you very much. Let me explain my actions first. Given the procedural proposal I was given, it would be very difficult for three, four or five of us to talk about a complicated matter that was not easy to decide, and you would be looking at us. So I interrupted the session for ten minutes and also apologized to you for the fact that those ten minutes were a little more. So much for that. Second. As we have received the views of the members of the groups, I will reiterate the proposal I made before these points are discontinued and resumed on Friday. We have to vote on this. In the meantime, as I said, a mandate-holder committee will also meet and talk about this point. However, we must vote on this proposal and I will therefore now put this proposal to the vote. I think he was clearly stated: breaking this point, continuing on Friday, not as an extraordinary meeting, as the continuation of this point to the end, and we must vote on it. Therefore, please, we are moving to a vote. There is no explanation for the vote, I have warned you of this earlier, only the parliamentary groups have had the opportunity to do so under the Rules of Procedure. We're voting. I'm finding the outcome of the vote. Of the 68 Members and Members present, 22 to 45 were in favour. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 45.]] I note that the proposal has not been adopted. Therefore, we continue with the item on the debate between the Members and Members who have been registered for point 18:00. I call on Mr. Bogdan Barovich, SNS. He's quitting. Thank you very much. Then I invite Mr. Magus. Practicing a word, LDS. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u214	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. First of all, thank you very much for your efforts, which you made both on vacation and through the drafting of a procedural proposal. We believe that you have done what is possible, but the ruling coalition here acts as a voting machine, of course it has the right to do so. However, I would like to point out in my debate that, for the second time today, we are already deciding on very important issues which, in my opinion, will have a significant impact on what Slovenia will look like in the coming years. Whether it will be a state in which public officials are to be officers, whether it be soldiers or those who decide, for example, on individual procurement departments, simply subordinate politicians or not. Today you decide this for the second time, after we have supported, with great agreement by the ruling coalition, the condition of the candidate for the Attorney-General that "you and the legislature will support legislative changes and I will become your Attorney-General." You have already done so, and now you have, and by the vote that has just ended, also confirmed how you will vote, taken the next step. You will appoint a committee of Vice-Presidents, Vice-Presidents, Members, Deputy Commission of Inquiry of the National Assembly to identify and assess the actual situation. This finding should form the basis for deciding on the political responsibility of the holders of public functions. You will perform, as has been said - at least some of you have understood it yourself - pressure also on all state prosecutors, because obviously it is not enough, so you estimate that Mrs Barbara Brezigar has been elected, but it is necessary to intimidate each of the prosecutors. That is why, of course, you will elect members of the commission of inquiry, some of whom will lead to positions of leadership, which are probably doubtful that they are not biased. Some have either filed complaints in some known so - called affairs or have themselves been denounced. The representative of one of the parliamentary parties who said he would ask who was clean, I think there are a lot of Members and Members in this national assembly who could undoubtedly raise their hand, but that is not the point. It is also up to the Members' groups to decide whether to hold an impartial debate or to conduct an impartial investigation in the same way as to decide who to represent, their representative in the commission of inquiry. We have estimated in the past days that the proposed President, the proposed Vice-President, is not for the reasons already mentioned, because one has been inadvertent and has been incarcerated at the same time and the other is in 11 cases. These are indisputable facts and because of these indisputable facts it would be good for the SDS and SNS Group to consider their candidates, but you do not want to do so, because you need these first-class fighters in this investigative commission because you want to use and abuse the investigative commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia in order to carry out the task it has received, which is to break the spines of the state prosecutors. Mr. Rector of the University of Ljubljana Jože Mencinger said at a meeting of the State Council two months ago that he would vote against the law on civil servants because "there will be 200 and more broken spines due to this law in Slovenia". And from this point of view, because the functioning of such a complex investigation commission is likely to be similar in the State Prosecutor's Office, of course we cannot and in this way we do not want to participate in the work of such an investigative commission. That is why we have already taken the appropriate steps and will continue to reject such a proposal as has been made here and to do so in a consistent political manner. Personally, at the end of today, I am somewhat disappointed by the desire of the ruling coalition that it does not even want to take one or two nights to sleep through its decisions and that we may still get a parliamentary commission of inquiry. Today you will vote on the parliamentary investigative commission of the ruling coalition and, of course, in such an investigative commission, it is extremely difficult for us to participate in the opposition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u215	Thank you very much. Mr. Aleš Gulič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u216	Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, Mr President. There was actually a lot of talk about this today, even when we were talking about Mrs Barbara Brezigar. Things are very similar. I kind of have a problem with the fact that, on the one hand, we want to keep things clean in some way. Of course, we have a law, say, on public procurement, that there would be as little confusion as possible, that things would be as clean as possible, that there would be no abuse. We have a commission against corruption, which, of course, also works this way. And also there, of course, matters are very clearly set out. Here, when we talk about the work of public prosecutors, all of a sudden everything is just fine. All candidates are good, no matter how involved they may be or how involved they may be. Actually, it's a good logic, it's said, we've all heard this before, that we're all honest, that there's no reason for anyone to bleed under the skin, but we're bloody. And that's why it bothers me. From purely political, human hygiene. And that's why I stepped down, stepped out of this commission, because I don't think it's good that it's clean at the beginning, it says, when it's starting, it's kind of infected. It is said that there are people in it who can - not say they have - but for whom they may have any resentment or positive resentment or negative. Even if you're in the process, and everything goes smoothly through, you can be very, very grateful. And you can show that gratitude if you're a normal person. Of course, you can be very, very angry, insulted, and then you're looking for hair in your egg. That's how I think this committee, and even if it's not supposed to interfere with the files themselves, then it's going to deal with people. So it's not necessarily the cases they're involved in. There may also be cases involving the same people as they were involved elsewhere. It's spreading in every way and it's contagious. That's what this is about. It is not that the Commission should not act so as not to check the work of prosecutors, although I think that professional supervision is now very, very well regulated and all the files are being checked there, even in the process of progress. But apparently no one wants to hear it. All you want to hear is something about political responsibility. And of course this retropolitic goes there in the seventies, and in the first half of the eighties. At the time, the political commissioners evaluated the work of everything. All of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u217	Thank you very much. I invite you to speak to Mrs. Darjo Lavtijar Bebler.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u218	Thank you so much for saying that. I'll try to be very brief because there's been a lot of things said here. However, it has been stated that there are still some unresolved issues, both by the role of the parliamentary investigation itself and, of course, by the composition of this parliamentary commission of inquiry. I am also not satisfied with how I have been answered to the question of how the outcome of the conflict between the two Rules of Procedure can be found. At least what I would like to hear is whether - regardless of whether this is some kind of "lex specialis" - it is necessary to take into account the fact that this Rules of Procedure on the work of the parliamentary inquiry have been made but for the purposes of the law, which is the ordinary law, as far as I know, and probably the Rules of Procedure with the ordinary majority have been adopted; I do not know if it has been, please answer me, because I think this is very relevant. But this, by the way, because it seems to me that in interpreting the rules of procedure itself and in clearing up certain things, the basic things for the work of the National Assembly are in a situation where there is simply no competent answer to such questions. As we do not really understand the essence, the idea or the institution of the parliamentary inquiry, it has already been expressed here in such a grave, fundamental way that if a person wanted to be appalled, he could be, but as a Member or Member of this National Assembly, you could get used to anything in time. In fact, when it comes to a speech that no one can be found guilty until he is known to be competent for the criminally responsible or for the convicted person. It has also been said that each parliamentary group is sovereign, completely sovereign of which Member is to be appointed to this investigative commission. Then, colleagues and colleagues, I wonder why the provision of Article 3 of the Investigative Commission Act is. This National Assembly, or the National Assembly, in its previous term, adopted this Act and probably, when it also adopted Article 3 in this Act, had special reasons for it. Yes, I agree, each Group of Members is sovereign in proposing its Members to this Commission, but of course within the framework of the Constitution and the specific law governing this matter. For me, there is no such commission on which the compositions already in advance have reasonable doubts about the impartiality of certain members, its members, and in particular the impartiality of the President and the Vice-President of this Commission, who, of course, have a specific role to play in the work of this Commission - I simply cannot support such a commission, even more, I am appalled at the ease with which, with what intolerable ease, some actually ignore these provisions. After all, we are obliged to respect the laws that we have adopted, and if some colleagues do not understand it, I am very sorry, but I hope that our public will also be able to understand and read some of these things as they are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u219	Thank you very much. Mrs. Cveta Zalokar Orazem has the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u220	Thank you very much. I am not a lawyer at this time, and I have not been looking for any business, legal and other articles and dictions to justify the inappropriateness of some of the proposed members for a commission, for the reasons we are talking about today. However, I have already called on that parliamentary group and those individuals who, in my opinion, are, for moral and ethical reasons, to consider whether they are suitable members for that commission and whether they can, with their personal integrity, seal such committees in a negative or positive sense. Apparently, six days of reflection hasn't changed anyone's mind. It was a call about their personal relationship to this matter. Given that, in fact, no one has expressed this point of regret or any concern today, I must say that I do not recognize this commission personally from this day forward. I think that this commission, as I said before, is a farce and on it, such a composition, without question, I think that the big black dot and its results are highly questionable, so I think the damage to all the taxpayer's money that we're going to spend on the work of this commission given that this black dot is burdened. We have enough fully qualified and unburdened people to make these black dots go away, enough people between Members and Members, but obviously there are other interests and there are other desires to achieve certain purposes that we should think about today. For me, I can tell you right now, the results of this committee are meaningless, farce and absurd.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u221	Thank you very much. Mr Davorin Terchón, LDS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u222	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. First of all, what I find at these meetings of the National Assembly is that they're quite scrupulous. If the previous mandates were in place when our opposition party was in power, the meetings were very crowded with the substantive agenda and that the government might have been so, I would say, employed that it had to correct the regulations very quickly to write them so quickly, which is also a bad point. But it is true that it has had to produce a lot of them to join the EU. And I myself, as a Member to such a work of criticism, must now find it quite the other way around. There are very few points of content. Look at the agenda, the ratifications themselves, the appointments and so on. And these few points, which are substantive, I would say, deserve some comment. If we are looking at point 4 - dealing with international research into the trends in mathematics knowledge, I don't even know why the National Assembly considered this. But after listening to this a little bit, I figured out why he was dealing with it. Especially in order to get the blame on the former coalition for all the bad conditions in this country. And so I also understand this point, particularly in the content that speaks of the political responsibility of the holders of public functions in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. So, colleagues and colleagues drew attention to the composition and objectives of the commission, pointing out the danger of being involved in the work of the prosecution. And I think that the obvious goal is to discredit and to blame everything bad in this country for the previous coalition. This practice has been rolling for quite some time and you have every right to do so. You can put part of my guilt on me too, and I will accept it, because everyone who does is also sinning. However, this reminds me of a familiar story when a ruler after years of rule - you can also take twelve years if it pleased you - to leave the successor two messages, so as an inheritance he left him two letters. On the first envelope he wrote, "Open up when you're in trouble for the first time," and on the second one he wrote, "Open up when you're in trouble again." And of course, when this ruler ruled, he got in trouble, and then he remembered these letters, he opened the first envelope, and it said, "It was all my fault that he called me, the predecessor, all my fault." And that, I think you're doing well now. Well, then time passed, things calmed down, and then there was another crisis. And he remembered another letter that said, "Open up when you're in crisis again." And he opened it and it said, "Write two letters for your successor." So, what do I mean by that? You have the right to draw attention to the mistakes that have been made. But it would be even better if you were to correct these flaws, which are to become constructive, but not to keep spinning around in a vicious circle of guilt because it is nothing good, and at the end of the day, there may be another letter waiting for each one. That's what you need to know. That is why I would also advise in this reflection, in setting up this commission and in doing so in general, that, for the first time, you will find a broader consensus and that we will all begin to act constructively together, for the good of this country, but not just to place the burden on each other, which is, in my opinion, also these committees. That's why I won't support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u223	Thank you very much. Mr. Dimitriy Kovacic, SDS, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u224	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word. Colleagues and colleagues! First, I'd like to give you some facts. In accordance with the legal provisions, the Council of State has submitted an application for the establishment of an investigative commission. In this request, the National Assembly is not allowed to decide and be defined by a majority, but is obliged by law to establish that the request has been submitted in accordance with the procedure and to set up a committee. So it's not up to the National Assembly to decide. Well, and when the National Assembly has determined at its previous meeting that the conditions for the establishment of this Commission are met, it is necessary to establish an investigative committee, in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, no later than at the next meeting of the National Assembly. These are the cohesive provisions to be respected. On this basis, the Group of Members shall appoint, in accordance with the numerical power of each Group of Members, a proportionate number of its Members, whom the Group of Members considers appropriate. The key to this proportionality was unanimously adopted. [[...]] [[Elevation from the bench.]] Good. [[...]] On this basis, the parliamentary groups simply proposed their candidates. And every group of Members is in charge of personnel, so to speak, autonomous. Now, here I hear that he's trying to influence this frame of mind, that someone else should be trying to recruit in another parliamentary group. I think that this is unacceptable and, of course, this must be left to every sending group. Now I might say something special, given that I have been named several times myself today as a man, "who is infected, who is contaminated, who is involved in certain procedures". And all of this has been expressed in some highly negative connotation so that maybe there's some impression of my person as a person who's not credible and so on. This was explicitly stated with this purpose. Well, let me just say I'm not in any criminal proceedings. But I was. I have, however, been in a process in which this National Assembly has also decided to grant immunity, even though I have never referred to this immunity alone. In this case, it was a case that was brought on the basis of a private action for alleged regret, which should have been done to this private prosecutor with the words expressed in a particular conversation. This private procedure, which was brought on the basis of a private action, does not involve any prosecutors, as it is not a public prosecution where the state prosecutor is involved, but is a private prosecution where we have a private prosecutor and the one against whom a private action is brought. And in this case, I was forgiven in court, and the court found that in my words, there was no offense. In the following proceedings, the private prosecutor, through his Ombudsman, denied the complaint in writing, so that I am not involved in the proceedings at this point. So much for the knowledge of those who have tried me in this way, I think not too much for a good purpose, and also for the fact that in the last days there have been quite a few rude and manipulative instigations, so I think I was obliged to say that too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u225	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek, SDS, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u226	Thank you very much. Your Honor! I think that, after my predecessor's appearance and explanation, it will soon be clear that the "Caesar goal" in the case of the opposition's instigation at the expense of the candidate for president. Indeed, it is quite clear that, in view of Mr Kovacic, this is an impertinent insinuation, because his case, which is in the documentation of the National Assembly, was not a matter for any state prosecutor. It can't be contaminated, it can't be, but it's constantly being renewed and it's hard to say that these rude insinuations are emerging, and it's also evidence that -- forgive me, colleagues, colleagues -- you're not primarily concerned with wanting to contribute to the credibility of the commission of inquiry, but it's an attempt to obstruct or delay the work of the commission of inquiry. This is clearly illustrated by the statement made by a colleague of Mr Gulič on behalf of the Liberal Democracy in his contribution to the POP TV when he said: "Even if it were all right, the credibility of such a commission remains to be suspected." If everything was all right, there's a suspicion for you. This is logical nonsense, but it's manipulation that you use. And look, if you would be concerned about the credibility of the Commission, I believe that some individuals may indeed, frankly, be concerned about this, not in the case of the President, but in this case you should have a responsibility and propose a candidate for the Vice-President of the Commission of Inquiry. Of course, you did not do this, none of these parties, which is now setting up and raising a deal, with the awareness that if you do not suggest that, of course, the only candidate proposed for Vice-President will be confirmed that the Commission can be set up. And now you've got a maneuverable space to start a touchdown, insinuation, etc. On the other hand, there is a deliberate misreading of Article 3 of the Law on Parliamentary Investigation. This article itself clearly shows who can, who cannot be a member of the Commission, and when it must be eliminated if it should come that far. However, since I have some practice with the work of the Commission of Inquiry, I know that at the beginning of the work of the Commission of Inquiry, the Commission of Inquiry shall adopt an investigative decision on the subject matter of its investigation. And I can assure you that our Group of Members will propose that it is one of the parts of the evidentiary decision that the Commission does not deal with matters in which members of the Commission could be involved. That's how it's theoretically gonna be exclusive. That this appointment would have taken place at the beginning of the Commission's work if you would have supported such conclusions. Or you'll need the basics to "start" populism and prevent the work of the commission. To me, your conduct and everything seems very, very strange, two-faced. In view of the fact that Mr Anderlič was also involved in this committee, I think, in the interim mandate, he too was contaminated under your criteria in some procedure, but no metal under his feet or he was talking about inappropriateness for a member of the investigative commission. Your parliamentary group obviously behaves in two ways, and I do not think that this classic institution of parliamentaryism, the commission of inquiry, will gain weight, if you want to destroy the reputation or if you want this institution to start working. I am aware that this investigative commission will have the most difficult task of all investigative commissions, because it will have to very narrowly determine the subject matter of the investigation, but you are obviously not satisfied with whatever is going on. You are studying all possible ways, once again, stressing how to obstruct, how to prevent the work of the commission. All these concerns can be credible for an individual who cites them, but clearly behind is a very precise plan, a strategy to prevent the commission from starting work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u227	Thank you. The word is from Dr. Lakhovnik, LDS. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u228	Thank you very much. Dear Members. Today's debate, however, proves why this committee should go. Of course, a very clear signal must be sent to prosecutors as to how they can do, what they can investigate, and what they cannot investigate. It's a very clear signal. Here there is also a Member of the National Assembly who has been dealt with in a number of criminal proceedings, several complaints. For the last time in the daily newspaper of Finance - I think one of them was 5, 6, 7, I couldn't even count them. They were all very amazing. And what kind of signal does that send? If the prosecutor does his job very correctly here, of course his work may also be subject to such parliamentary investigations. What's "unresponsible"? What's "responsible" and what's "insponsible"? This is often a matter of different perspectives. This has proved to be the best in the case of appointment, you will remember, members of the Constitutional Court, Mrs Mirjam Škrk, who has run for town, I think in The Hague. In The Hague. That's it. A representative of one of the political parties of the new coalition came up and said: "Because we did not like one of the rulings of the Constitutional Court, we will not support it. We're gonna disable her human resources. And that's exactly what happened." No shame in saying that in the microphone. There are magnetograms. And what does it say to prosecutors and prosecutors today? If your work does not go according to our political criteria, if they are not politically compatible, they will be investigated. And Mr Jerovšek has now made the most of it, he said, we will already propose in advance that the Commission should not deal with matters in which members of the Commission could be involved. That is to say, if any member of the commission who has committed any negligence, the Member of Parliament, and, say, involved himself in the work of the prosecutors, you will tell them in advance that you will not deal with this. Is that a logic? Let's make it an exception if you're serious. I don't know if it was a lapsus or a conscious word. Or maybe it was what Gantar's colleague put to good use earlier. To sometimes unwittingly say what you really think. And from that point of view, you are a very valuable discusser. In short, I wonder what this committee is going to do now. It has also been said by eminent constitutional lawyers: it is unconstitutional to review the files of state prosecutors. Nothing comes to you as an important representative of one of the parties to the coalition, of course the one who just explained here why the Constitutional Court judge, Mrs Mirjam Škrk, is not suitable for the International Court of Justice in The Hague, for arbitration, I apologize, very clearly based this on political criteria, and this one of course says, "Yes, then I don't know what to do to me." Of course, it is necessary to evaluate individual writings, to have insight into them, to search for them. Something that a whole bunch of lawyers at the starting point thinks is unconstitutional. What's the point of this? Again sending very clear political signals. Today, some in the National Assembly supported the appointment of a new state prosecutor, who appointed Mr. Miran Železnik as Head of the Economic Department of the District Court in Ljubljana. And it has been very clear that this gentleman has forgotten a whole series of files in his cabinets, and you did not think this was appropriate before. You've justified this by saying that otherwise it's politically independent, undeclared, and that it's given some added value to the prosecution. Later, we found that at least four of them are very clear political criteria, which very precisely fulfils them, that it is undoubtedly a first-class political appointment, and now we have a first-class political commission investigating the work of the prosecutions. Of course, it is a beautiful pink punk that will probably be playing here, the purpose of which is a pierre, a pianist political marketing that you will use. It is perfectly legitimate that you do this, but of course another thing is how good this is for an independent institution in this country. How good it is for us to have separate branches of authority, how good it is for us to continue to maintain some independence of individual institutions and whether it is really good for us in this society in fact, as was the case in the Civil Servants Act, where we have come up with a similar argument where it is possible to replace the Head of Dursa, head of the Customs Administration by the way. If an influential entrepreneur will be the largest government party in the process, if he does not like being treated by Dursa, by the customs administration, of course, there is a possibility of being replaced. And the same is true in this case, there is an analogy. If you do not like the work of any of the prosecutors or prosecutors, it will be the subject of a parliamentary investigation. Very clear and very recognizable. That's what you've done best.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u229	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerovšek, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u230	Thank you very much. Mr Lahovnik is obviously actually too young and not experienced in parliamentary matters to understand my point and to know what the evidentiary decision is in the investigative commission. I don't blame him for completely misinterpreting and then insinuating it, but I must read Article 6: "In the evidentiary decision taken before the start of the proof, the investigating commission shall determine how the parliamentary investigation and evidence will be carried out." And that is exactly what my remark or what should be suggested at the outset was about. Mr. Lakhovnik, I would suggest that you first read the law on the commission of inquiry and then find out what you are spending here and the public. This time you've just shown that you don't understand everything.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u231	Excuse me? It's a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u232	If you'll excuse me. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u233	Just a minute. Mr. Sok, did you discuss it?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u234	No, I haven't discussed it, but he's been talking all along. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u235	Stop! Stop! Stop! Stop! [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u236	He was talking about me. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u237	I can't give you my word, please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u238	He talked about me all the time.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u239	We continue the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u240	Look, he's been talking about someone who's made a statement here, and he's been talking about me, but he's not saying Juice, yeah, he's talking about me.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u241	Excuse me, please, I can't give you my word. We continue the debate. Mr. Mag. Saivitz has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u242	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues! I'm glad you did. [[...]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u243	Just a moment, please. I'm asking for peace in the hall. Go on, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u244	Thank you very much. I am glad that the debate is coming to an end, because it is increasingly clear that once in the dark there is no way forward, then the one who walks begins to look back. Clearly, this authority lacks a clear and specific view of the future and deals with the past. It has already been said that if you want some matter not to come to an end, then it is necessary to set up an investigative commission, one way or another. At the time of the recruitment of this famous commission, which will certainly come into the history of parliamentary democracy, we will finally be able to write down a simple pool, namely, that we tried to let the fox guard the chickens in Parliament. This has not yet taken place in a simple rural life and I do not think there will be any significant achievements and progress in the development of Slovenia in this mandate. I think it's time to look forward. We have many projects ahead of us waiting for a solution. Vehementally and abundantly you promised them and it's time to go after them and realize them.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u245	Thank you very much. And a final debater, Mr. Miran Potch.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u246	Thank you very much. I would like to say that in the Group of Social Democrats we have tried to do everything possible to understand where the problem is. That's not what you wanted. It will probably remain documented that for you the legalism of arrogance, most of it, is much more than the substantive definitions adopted by this National Assembly. Whatever the case, most of you have, and this way you can make your decision. Because those debates that have taken place today have really pointed to a complete misunderstanding of some of the issues of the work of the parliamentary investigation in general, even when it comes to overseeing the work of the third branch of government. See, in the event that any of the Members and Members will be dealt with in a criminal case - the Prosecutors are not without numbers - then that Prosecutor who will deal with him must not be in any of the other cases that will be dealt with in this committee, because he will have to be expelled and will say, I must no longer act as a prosecutor, because I can be biased because this Commission treats me. And there could be countless such cases. And that you don't want to see it, I just don't get it. I thank Mr Kovacic for his information. This information would be very welcome on the Commission's mandate. In an important part, I knew it; that the procedure was definitively completed - I did not know, I would have liked to have told me more about the question which was in the public eye, the witnesses in the matter of the examination of the criminal procedure, not Mr Kovacic, but others in the SIB bank, because if it was really there for the witness, then given that article 3 of the Law on Parliamentary Investigation reads "any cooperation in the procedure", including the accused, the witness, the injured party and so on, it is such a case that it would not then be up-to-date. I just want to tell you something, gentlemen, that at the end of today's debate, don't insult me, it points to your arrogance: nothing can happen to us. We don't even have to tell you the fact that we have the majority and we're going to decide what we're going to do. That's bad. And Mr Kovačič could say this on a mandate-holder's committee, and gentlemen from the Slovenian National Party could say the same if similar matters were involved, and things would be cleared up. No, you didn't! Reverse! Today you have found that no decision can be changed. That I will not be too long, because it is a shame to convince one another, I will say this: to me and to you at some point, legal formalism will no longer be of content. Anyone who has not come over that legal formalism is more than the whole content of the law, and above all the constitutional position of the National Assembly - and therefore, Mr President, I look at you and you in this house must take care of it most. If a single article is more important to you than the constitutional role of the National Assembly, then it is necessary to consider the role of the Constitutional Assembly. If voting is more than a general idea of the reputation of the National Assembly in achieving some of its objectives in the public, then that formalism is more. I think we're gonna have to think about these things sooner or later. Yeah, I'm done. I think we've done everything we can to at least feel where we see the problem. We weren't successful. You'll make a different decision with your majority. However, I must tell you, and we will re-evaluate all the conduct of today's session and see when and whether the time has come when we will announce that we cannot participate in such a commission. Because our illusion of being able to control or participate in the functioning of the legality of this commission is really just an illusion, given your actions, when you have not prepared anything, nothing but your majority and your arrogance to all who think otherwise to enforce. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u247	Thank you very much. Mr. President Tuckati, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u248	Thank you for your word. I'm going to replicate that I was, as President, more for formalism than for content. I believe that respect for the Constitution, the law and the rules of procedure of the National Assembly, which is a small constitution, is not formalism. And according to the rules of procedure and law, we are obliged to establish this commission, not the invention of the SDS or any other government party, but the duty imposed on us by the small constitution, who does not understand it, does not know what democracy is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u249	Thank you very much. Mr. Kovacich, the replica. Who? Please, for the debate. Mr. Potch, have you named Mr. Kovacic by name? Yes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u250	Thank you very much. See, Mr Potrč, when you mentioned how I was infected and contaminated and involved in criminal proceedings and that this was the reason that I was inappropriate for this candidacy, you, almost certainly, knew that in this case it was a private action and not a public accusation involving a public prosecutor. And yet you've been talking for a few days about this being the reason I'm inappropriate. But if you didn't know, you'd be right to ask questions or ask me, and I'd tell you. I think it would be right, not to think of something that isn't true. As for why I did not say earlier that the procedure had been completed, I must say that until today I did not know that the private prosecutor had waived the complaint. I received this notice today, so I also told him today that I was more qualified at the end of the debate, and I was not able to influence it myself, but I was written here, and when I got the word, I also said that. So, in the proceedings I was forgiven, the court found that in my own words I had not regretted the private prosecutor and the private prosecutor sent me this information through his authorized letter, so he gave up the complaint in writing, which I received today by mail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u251	Thank you very much. It's a replica of the replica. Who are you trying to replicate? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u252	A blacksmith again if you're not [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u253	Except for the replica on the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u254	If it's not necessary, if I don't have a word, I won't speak.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u255	I'd rather not.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u256	No, no, no. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u257	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We move to a vote or to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the composition of the commission of inquiry. Anybody want to explain their voice? Aurelio Yuri, Squeakle. Anyone else, please? So we don't waste time, I won't write now. Please, I'll ask you one more time if I forgot to write someone. Please, Mr. Aurelio Yuri, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u258	Thank you, Mr. President. Very short. I did not sign up for the debate earlier, but I am using the Institute of Explanation of the Voice to say that if this were to happen in the Italian Parliament, if in one day Berlusconi appointed his man as the Attorney-General when the Members set up an investigative commission at the expense of the prosecutors, the next day all of Italy's Master's degree would stand up and resist. For we are very dangerously entering the waters of political interference into the autonomy of justice. Tomorrow we can have a similar experience with the courts and the Constitutional Court. Of course, it's your decision, you have a majority, so you take responsibility. As soon as we set up a commission, if we had the opportunity to vote, I would have voted against it. Since there was no such possibility at the time, today I have the right to define myself to the proposal we have before us, and of course I cannot support such a proposal, it also makes it easier for me to vote "against" the majority's unwillingness to seek consensus with the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u259	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u260	On behalf of the delegation, if you'll give me three minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u261	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u262	On behalf of the Group of Members. Thank you very much. Allow me to explain our vote on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club. We will vote against this decision, and we regret that there has not been a debate today, even with some procedural decisions so much judgment on the part of the ruling coalition that what you accept today will be somewhat sleepy. Let me also comment on what has been said earlier by one of the Members, the first among us to say that he respects the Rules of Procedure. That's what we really want. Because, of course, the rules of procedure respected [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u263	Mr. Squeakle. I'm asking you to explain your voice and not your problem.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u264	For we will vote against this because, of course, the rules of procedure and the relations between the National Assembly and the Council of State and the procedures in the preparation of the conclusions relating to the Commission of Inquiry have been violated several times. Also in relation to activities previously designated. Therefore, we believe that there are no conditions to remove the suspicion that an investigative commission of the National Assembly, formed at the initiative of the State Council, is operating in this Chamber in an appropriate, very intensive manner - so the State Council, for what reasons, has corrected the proposal that we have voted on it in the first place. And for all these reasons, the Member Club will not today support this decision. We will vote against it. We expect, of course, that there will first be some reflection in the individual parliamentary groups in order to get the leadership of a commission that can clearly act impartially, but conditions are not set up today and we will vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u265	Thank you very much. Mr. Kangler, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u266	Thank you for your word. I regret that I have not been reported for discussion so that I can explain my personal position in the debate. That is why I must take advantage of the fact that I explain my voice and say publicly and loudly that I will not support this commission, even though I am in the very decision appointed as our deputy member. I have more than one reason. I have a nine-year parliamentary tradition, respected fellow Members and colleagues. I was a member and a witness to two investigative committees. And for me, there's no dispute in the courts about a private lawsuit or anything like that. However, if any of these members are in criminal proceedings that are being prosecuted under official responsibility, then I must be honest with you that I cannot oppose membership as a Member. However, too quickly some in this Chamber forget some parliamentary principles. I remember a fellow Member who was talking about political hygiene. My big friend. Political hygiene and the reputation of this house are forgotten. I will not vote against it, nor will I support it. And if we remember Friday and the commission of inquiry, it was absolutely necessary, and it is also absolutely necessary. However, the Commission must be credible and must defend the honour and reputation of parliamentary democracy. As a member of the two Commissions of Inquiry, I can assure you that everything on these Commissions was different from what the Commission was set up to do. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] This is, however, that regardless of which option and which party one of the individual members belongs to, they would look at the parliamentary investigation in the sense that we would ensure that what I can very much find is achieved by this objective, such as that set up by the Commission in Friday. [[...]] That is why I also support the fact that we have an investigative commission in the field of the prosecution, for these reasons that I have just stated; I will abstain from political hygiene in voting on this decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u267	Thank you very much. Mrs. Beblerev has the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u268	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I want to explain my voice, in this sense, that it is undoubtedly a very big day today to spread the spirit of political compatibility in this country. We've been given the Attorney General's Office, we'll get an investigative committee composed of a team that I don't think is credible and not credible. The last time we discussed the introduction of this commission of inquiry, it was said that the effectiveness of this parliamentary inquiry would depend on the co-operation of the State Prosecutor's Office. I think we've also ensured this cooperation today. But, gentlemen, you want to have such a composition of this commission of inquiry and remember that it is your responsibility. You have a commission and the responsibility is yours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u269	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u270	Thank you very much, Chairman. On behalf of the Group of Members, I would like to do so. Thank you. So, I would like to say on behalf of New Slovenia that we are not excited about the Vice-President of this Commission. On one occasion, Mr Jelinčič said that the electorates of Dr. Bernič were a nuisance that would have to be killed after 1945, and we cannot forget that. Every time I see him, I remember that. On the other hand, it must also be said that Mr Jelinčič was the only candidate for Vice-President. However, in order for the actual commission to be appointed in accordance with the business options and with what the Rules of Procedure say. As far as criminal proceedings are concerned, this is not so much an issue for us, because, in fact, I must say that I am in criminal proceedings myself, because I am being sued by an LDS Member, it is said, our fellow Member, because of the statement given at the press conference. So each of us can be in criminal proceedings at any time. Now one more thing, because you didn't allow me to replicate before to Mr. Dr. Lakhovnik, who spoke only of me. Just one sentence, please, if you could speak [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u271	I'm sorry, Mr. Sok, I'd like to ask you very much. You're really in the way of what we're trying to achieve in the leadership of the National Choir. I beg you, I did not give you my word for the replica earlier because you did not discuss and you were not mentioned by name. Now you have the floor to explain your vote, please, if you continue to explain or finish.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u272	I don't know if you're leading, presidents, a meeting, then you have to be careful that Members don't talk about other matters or about Members who aren't here. However, if they are speaking, then in accordance with Article 74, paragraph 73, paragraph 70, I apologize, you may grant the right to a replica. So, if I'm not allowed to do that, I can't, but on another occasion, I'm going to answer Dr. Lakhovnik's bullshit that he presented here today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u273	Thank you very much. Mr Rugelj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u274	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Today, some Members, who are also members of the mandate commission, where I too have been, have in some way wanted to bring Mr Kovacic into a bad light, even though they were thoroughly aware of what was going on on on this committee. I think that was wrong and that it was unfair to say that, as far as I know these political options, they would have demanded an apology in their place or in Mr Kovacic's place long ago. I ask that in this House we no longer encourage anyone in this way consciously because they knew the thing. This will be in the best interests of this House. Thank you very much. But I will vote in favour, of course.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u275	Thank you very much. Mr. Bake, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u276	Thank you. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. I once heard an example of duality that was about: look, but don't overlook, taste, but not swallow. Ladies and gentlemen, that is exactly what you are doing - be a Member, but not performing your functions. Would it not make more sense that, now that someone is already in the capacity of a Member who has been given a term of office by citizens and citizens in elections, this Member should be allowed to exercise his office? No, you say [[...]] [[It's an ad from the hall.]] Mr. Pavel Gantar, please calm down once for a change. You say another thing, you say that someone should be a paper Member, but not have his actual power or enforceable role to defend or carry out within different commissions. On the other hand, at the previous point, we talked about the number of candidates for each city - I think it was the Attorney General. Because the two so-called opposition parties raised that thought when someone could not perform this function because the Government of the Republic of Slovenia made a huge mistake that only one candidate had proposed. Ladies and gentlemen of the LDS and the United List, did you not have this opportunity to propose to your members or to a member of the Vice-President? Now you are reading the proposal of the Slovenian National Party, which was the only one, because you were just tanning for the presidency or for the presidency - if I am not mistaken, it was Mrs Beblereva. And by doing that, you're ruining the role of vice president. I think it's very double-faced. If we wanted to participate in the two highest places of the Commission, namely the President and the Vice-President, we would also run for these functions. And so you didn't even run for vice president, and now you're reading the only candidate - and of course he's chosen, right? - that he's inappropriate. On the other hand, at least within the framework of the National Party, we estimate that the only "partially serious argument" was, on your part, that you dispute the composition of this commission, that the person or person involved in a particular case cannot make the correct decision in that case. Ladies and gentlemen, if you look at the material that is in front of us today, you can see that there are also so-called alternate members on the committee of inquiry. And if it turns out at any time later that any involvement has actually occurred, each member of his or her replacement member, who may in some cases replace him, which has already happened in the past. But no, that's not acceptable to you either. According to my assessment or assessment of the National Party's parliamentary group [[...]] [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] Someone's innocent for as long as they don't prove guilty. [[...]] But you are already condemning some Members in advance today.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u277	Mr. Pece, we could have finished slowly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u278	We'll support this at the National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u279	Thank you very much. Mr. Friend has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u280	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr Aurelio, I want to tell you that there is no Italian Parliament here, we are in the Slovenian Parliament. But I also want to explain my voice [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u281	One more time, please. Is that an explanation for the voice or is that a replica?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u282	It's an explanation of the voice. So, I will vote for this proposal by the Commission myself, and I will tell you who are all concerned that we can find the culprits on the one hand and on the other. Above all, not to compare here what would happen in another Parliament, because we know that this government is speaking, the Prime Minister says that there was a holiday settlement for Slovenians in Rab during World War II. Why don't you say it, Mr. Aurelio? It is a shame to compare the Italian Parliament here with Slovenian and on morality [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u283	I'd like to once again, please, warn me. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u284	I have to say, "Only the shoes belong to the Coop." [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u285	Thank you very much. Please, hold fast to what is meant by the explanation of your voice. Mr. Potch has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u286	Thank you very much. I participated on a round table on public or public radio, where we discussed the establishment of an investigative commission; the professor of law at the Faculty of Law said that if the National Assembly wanted to, such an investigative commission on the basis of an unacceptable requirement would not set up. The Constitution also applies to the National Assembly and is more formal when it comes to substantive substantive issues. I don't expect us to learn that soon, but it's only right that he should be alerted here and there. Everything that has taken place in the design of the first decision to set up an investigative commission and all the proceedings that have taken place has confirmed that there is no willingness to make a serious assessment, which is a firm determination to respect the form but not the content. I'll say it again. We decided to cooperate because we do not want to be given any evidence that we do not want to assess the functioning of the prosecution because there are serious problems in the prosecution. However, as the process went on, we are disappointed to the end, and we have no other option but to say that no excuse you have said today can hold up a serious assessment. Nor is it an excuse that you were obliged to do so, nor is it an excuse that there were no other candidates, all this is not true; it is only your will that this Commission is set up in every way for the reasons that have already been said today to have a political impact in this sphere of operation of our country.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u287	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Gnyardsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u288	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues. Our parliamentary group will not support this vote in favour of this Commission's composition because it does not want to accept these observations that have been made in this Chamber today, although we can and can accept this as the normal functioning of the democratic national assembly. In any case, I am sure that the findings will not dry up, the gold ones will not be among the voters, and for that reason, of course, and for principle reasons we cannot support this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-20-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u289	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is closed. I note that from 64 Members and Members voted 38 to 17. [[The vote was 38.]] [[No, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. We turn to the next item - the proposal for a decision on the discharge and appointment of the President of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Culture, Education and Sport. The draft decision was tabled by the SDS Group of Members for consideration. There are no applicants for the debate, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on discharge and on the appointment of the President of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Culture, Education and Sport. We're voting. The outcome of the vote. There were 56 Members and Members present, 47 to 1. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. Next item - examines the request of the District State Prosecutor's Office of Kranj for a criminal prosecution permit against the Member of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, Pavl Rupar. The request was referred to the District State Prosecutor's Office of Kranj for consideration of the assembly. The request was addressed by the Commission’s mandate-holder as the working body and submitted a proposal for a decision to the assembly. The Commission's rapporteur wants a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] In accordance with the first paragraph of Rule 207 of the Rules of Procedure, there is no debate on immunity matters, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision, which reads as follows: "Conclusion. The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, pursuant to the third paragraph of Article 83 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and Article 22(1) and (2) of the Law on Members concerning the request of the District Public Prosecutor's Office of Kranj concerning the intention to request the establishment of a criminal investigation before the District Court of Kranj against the Member of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Paul Rupar, in the direction of a reasonable suspicion of the offence of the abuse of the official position under Article 261(3) of the Criminal Code, does not recognise the immunity of the Member of the National Assembly of RS to Mr Paul Rupar and allow the initiation of criminal prosecution." We're voting. Voting adjourned. 54 Members and Members present, 50 votes against 2. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against two.]] I therefore note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. One moment, please! Just a short notice before I close. At 9:30 tomorrow morning, a meeting was convened, a working meeting, the heads of the parliamentary groups with the President of the National Assembly, i.e. with the College of the National Assembly. You have proposed a meeting of some parliamentary groups, but I would like to ask you to take note that due to the abundance of all the part of this meeting, it will not be tomorrow morning at half ten, but it would be postponed immediately after 1 May. I hope you've taken this with understanding. I hereby conclude the 5th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Good night.
