ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I am opening the 5th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, convened pursuant to Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. At the death of his holiness, Pope John Paul II. We'll honor his memory with a minute of silence. I am informed that they are detained and cannot attend today's meeting by the following Member and Members: Mr Roberto Battelli, Mr Ferri Horvat and Mrs Majda Potrate by 3:30 p.m. I invited the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Janez Janša to the 1st item, the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to all items of the agenda, the representative of the State Audit Commission to the 2nd item, the representative of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia and the representative of the Judicial Council to the 18th item of the agenda. I welcome everyone here. Dear fellow Members and fellow Members! We are moving on to the agenda of the 5th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The draft agenda is drawn up in accordance with Rule 59 of the Rules of Procedure and received by reference to the meeting on 11 April 2005. The draft agenda will be decided in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I did not receive a motion to withdraw the item from the agenda. We are moving on to a proposal to expand the agenda. The Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice proposes that the agenda should be extended by considering a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on offences - an urgent procedure. Would you like a representative of the board to say a word? Would you like a representative of the government? The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to extend the agenda. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 70 Members and Members present, 66 votes against 3. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the proposal for enlargement has been adopted. The meeting will consider this item to be the 16th item of the agenda. I therefore propose to the assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda, as you have received by reference and with the proposed addition. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 73 Members and Members present, 69 votes against none. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda for the 5th meeting of the assembly has been set. This concludes the session, which we will resume at 3 p.m. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u2	Dear Members and honourable Members! We're moving on to one. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - QUESTIONS FROM THE MISSIONS AND THE CONCERNERS. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received 36 Members and Members in writing within the time limit. The order for the submission of the questions referred shall be established on the basis of an agreement with the heads of the groups of Members and in accordance with Article 244(2) and Article 245(2) and Article 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The first three questions raised by members of the opposition and the Member of the ruling coalition's question to the Member of Parliament will be answered by the Prime Minister. Then, in accordance with Rule 247 of the Rules of Procedure, the Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology, Dr Jure Zupan, will answer the question raised at the previous meeting of the assembly, to which he did not respond. Members who have asked two questions will ask the second question after all the Members who are registered ask one question. Members shall have three minutes to ask the question. The Prime Minister and the Minister shall answer the question within a maximum of five minutes, as well as if the question has been raised by more ministers. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask an additional question; please, Members, be aware of this. The Member shall provide an explanation of the request to supplement the reply within two minutes. However, the reply may be completed for a maximum period of three minutes. With regard to the announcement of the questions sent, I would like to inform you that Ambassador Barbara Žgajner Tavš has asked a question whose content was not clear and has therefore corrected her question. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised today, the Prime Minister or the Minister must provide him with a written reply within 30 days, which will be published in the bulletin of the National Assembly. A Member who has asked a question which has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral answer. In this case, I will place the question at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. On the bench, you received a review of the questions sent and of the initiatives that have not yet been answered in the course of business. We are moving on to a presentation of the questions sent. As has already been said, the first four questions will be answered by Prime Minister Janez Janša. According to the list, Mr Anton Rop was the first to put the question before the Prime Minister. His question is: What government measures will be taken to ensure the accelerated development and resolution of the problems of individual groups in Slovenia? The question, however, does not indicate the problems and the groups of the population of which Member who asks the Prime Minister about the measures is concerned. Since the question is created in contravention of paragraph 240 of the Rules of Procedure, and since the question by the LDS Group was sent to us too late to be able to ask Members to supplement the question, Mr President, I ask you whether you are prepared to answer this question.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u3	Thank you for your word. It is impossible to answer that question. However, I expect the Member to clarify this question by suggesting that we respond in a manner that is answered in the European Parliaments, although this is not entirely in accordance with the rules of procedure adopted in the previous mandate.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u4	Thank you, Mr. Janša. The first question, therefore, will be asked by Mr Mag. Anton Rop. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u5	Thank you very much. I must say, I'm surprised at your explanation. Perhaps it would be good to see what questions I myself have received as Prime Minister by the then leader of the opposition. I think they were much less accurate, accurate, but we could always answer. So I thank you for this opportunity to ask a question. Thank you very much. Mr President, honourable assembly, the first question is about development issues and I am sure that this will be answered by Mr Prime Minister. Both domestic and foreign analyses have recently shown that the economic, social and public financial situation in Slovenia is good. In fact, it is much better than we expected years ago, and, of course, a similar situation is better in the Member States of the European Union, which are our most important external trading partner. So, this year, we have clearly a lot of conditions, a lot of opportunities and opportunities for accelerated economic development, to tackle the problems of under-competitiveness and also to address other problems of specific groups of people. Nevertheless, so far we have not observed or observed very few such government measures that would go precisely this way. On the contrary, the measures you take are, as a rule, directed either backwards or not leading forward. Let me just name a few. First time. Despite its forecast, the government is very late in drawing up a proposal for a rebalancing. Recently, I think that last week you have accepted your proposal and, surprisingly, in this proposal, we do not find that known 70 billion deficit increase, which you announced for three months, we find savings of about 20 billion. The difference between what you predicted and what is now in these documents that are available to us is about 90 billion. So for 90 billion you changed your forecast in such a short time within a few days. Of course I wonder how this miracle happened. Nor do we find savings in areas where this is necessary in the proposal for a rebalancing. You're primarily snarling development projects. The government has drawn up a law to politicize public RTV Slovenia and by which you stop public television, which you want to completely submit to yourself. According to the Secretary-General of the International Press Organization, you have led us among countries such as Turkey, Algeria, Tunisia and Israel. The government has prepared a package of laws to reopen the issues of the position and role of the NOB participants and the government has generally supported no concrete [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u6	Mr. Rob, please finish your thought.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u7	the opposition's proposals and the legislative proposals we are proposing. [[...]] I wonder: Why does the government not deal with these measures that should, therefore, involve development measures? I wonder, "When will the government be?" [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u8	Mr. Rop, please finish your thought.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u9	which such proposals have you prepared and proposed? [[..]] Why Automatic [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u10	Mr. Rob, I'll take your word for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u11	You reject all suggestions. [[..]] [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u12	Thank you for those questions. These are questions that can be answered. However, in view of the introduction made here in asking these questions, I will read once again the question put by the Liberal Democracy Group last minute. This issue was: "What government measures will be taken to ensure the accelerated development and resolution of the problems of individual groups in Slovenia?" The individual population group in Slovenia can be anyone. It can be five Members, it can be deleted, it can be those who, I don't know, receive social assistance, those who don't receive social assistance. Anyone can be a group. That is why I do not mind answering questions that are not announced, because I have also taken up this in my previous mandate. But I'm against us being sneaky. Secondly, don't make an announcement and I'm ready to answer anyway. As regards the development groups in the question of the Member of Parliament, the "concerned" by finding out how the economic situation is good, ideal, etc., it is necessary to look before the answer, however, at what basis has been created in this last period and what can be done on this basis in the next period. In this Chamber or in this house, five years ago, it was promised that the mandate of 2000-2004 would mark 5% of economic growth on average, now at least 5% every year, and that all reforms would be implemented and that on this basis a large proportion of the resources could be allocated to the annual budgets also for development start-up. None of this has been done to this extent. No year's economic growth was 5%, the highest in last year's year, and it was also 5%, translated into specific figures, we can say that this improved economic situation at this moment, according to forecasts in 2003, is about 45 billion tolars. So much is estimated, according to the latest forecasts of the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development in 2005, to be higher budget revenues than were planned in 2003. So all that we've been singing here is possible to put in the figures, the official figures, because this is now confirmed, 45 billion SIT, by the fact that the obligations that were not planned in this year's budget, which need to be covered, have some emerged from the adoption of legislation already after the budget was adopted and some have simply been overlooked in the planning so far. And when all of this comes together, and when we put ahead of all of us these key objectives that the state has to take over the euro to join the European monetary union, then there is very little room for manoeuvre. On the one hand, public debt needs to be done, and this is what the government has proposed in these frameworks, which it has adopted for the preparation of the balance sheet. On the other hand, the commitments that were incurred and were not planned were not foreseen in the adopted budget for 2005. This is about school salaries that were known to have to be paid, but they weren't planned. These are state guarantees, both balances for around 10 billion, which will have to be paid, which were not foreseen. It's about rail debt and it's a number of other areas where when you add it up, billions of dollars are raised. So I'm sorry. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Whereas economic growth was greater last year than was planned when the budget was adopted, what essential manoeuvre for this development momentum, which has always been well discussed so far at the time of the adoption of the budget, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u13	Mr. President, time is running out.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u14	It's not easy. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Mr. Rob, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u16	Perhaps it would actually be good to look at your own questions, perhaps the 20 last questions you have put up as a Member and then see how unusual these thoughts and quotations are. As far as economic growth is concerned, last year we achieved 4.6% of economic growth all together in Slovenia. This is more than twice as much economic growth as it is in the EU, and we have also set ourselves the goal of making this economic growth more than twice as big. And everything through it was twice as big. You are not planning this either, but you are planning 3.8% of economic growth, which is much lower, and also probably because you are afraid of getting caught in these own loops, you are not making any predictions, nor any promises, because this is the best. As far as my question is concerned, I have asked you for one single measure that will be developed, one single measure that will lead to greater competitiveness of the economy. You haven't listed one either. You said what was in the budget's balance sheet. However, if you looked at your own magnetograms on Radio Slovenia, on TV Slovenia then you would have seen that you were speaking completely differently until a week ago, 14 days ago, two months ago. And you haven't even talked about any more tides, you haven't even talked about what a deficit is going to be, but you've explicitly mentioned just one number that you're repeating here. Otherwise, I wanted to ask you about another law that we LDS Members have tabled - and it concerns patients with protein metabolism disorders - in a parliamentary procedure that the position has rejected and we know that we will therefore not be able to solve the problems of these patients for months and months. This is about the problems that occurred at the end of last year, so it's hard to make excuses for the last 12 years. Society turned to us, and we filed a marriage. The argument of some Members was that because we proposed it, you would not support it, so you will go with a comprehensive law, which is likely to be adopted in a year or so in the National Assembly. Therefore, there will now be specific groups [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u17	Mr. Rob, time's up.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u18	people had to wait for these problems to be resolved. [[...]] And that's what I wanted to ask you. You don't have to answer if you don't want to.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u19	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u20	I think it's nice for someone to rule the laws that fix the situation that they created themselves. That's very commendable. However, the solutions must be correct. It must not go for anything and the government must, of course, act responsibly. Before granting any rights to anyone, funds and resources must also be provided. I wouldn't agree to changing my mind either. Just in case you mentioned it yourself and it was also a hot topic in the previous term, for example, when it came to the right of the opposition to speak, to the right of voters and voters to monitor Parliament's work, we advocated in the previous term the direct transmission of the meetings of the national assembly and the most important working bodies. This is what we now propose in the law, and we expect you to support it. In each normal system, this is the basic requirement of the opposition. So in this case, I think we're doing what we said before. As far as high economic growth is concerned last year. Last year, economic growth was good and did not reach 5%. Here is not the basic problem that 5% of economic growth has not been achieved, the main problem is that it was assumed on the basis of your promises that economic growth would be so, and that legislation was adopted that was spreading rights. On this basis, the budget is further spent so that there is very little room for manoeuvre. Of these 45 billion more revenue than was foreseen in the 2003 budget for 2005, half will need to be allocated for the budget deficit to be reduced to a secure euro line and, secondly, to cover the obligations that have arisen has not been planned. Less than 7.4 billion tolars were planned for public administration wages because the previous government had planned to reduce public administration employment and had actually increased it. Even in ministries where there is a relatively small number of employees. Ministry of Health for 27 years in four years, Ministry of Culture - 57 or vice versa, in culture slightly less, in health slightly more. All this requires, these are the rights that are now written down and have to be paid. Otherwise, the government will save and already take measures in this regard. They're widely known, you don't have to repeat them. We are starting to repair the complex system for European funds, which is why [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u21	Mr. President, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u22	it is possible to draw more resources, etc. [[...]] Thank you very much. I don't think I've gone through more time than the one who asked.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u23	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Miran Potrč will ask the next question on behalf of the Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u24	Dear Mr. President! At the 2nd meeting of the National Assembly on 24 January this year, I cited some decisions taken by the Government without cooperation with the affected. I asked you whether the government would take into account the established social dialogue policy and whether it would involve stakeholders in its decisions. You have replied to me that the Government is aware of the importance of dialogue with the social partners and of the need for other reforms that will be needed to deal with the affected. After three months, I find that despite your promise, the government acts differently. First of all, without any consultation with the affected, he proposes decisions and demands that they be taken as an emergency by the State Assembly. And only when the victims resist when they prove the substantive inadmissibility of the proposed solutions, or even threaten with public-organised activity, will the government withdraw and begin discussions with them. The obvious new examples of such behaviour are changes and additions to pension legislation, in which both pensioners and trade unions, including your government partner, have been alerted to unacceptable content and procedures. Even worse was the government in the preparation of new RTV legislation, where all affected organisations publicly resisted, and the international press association also protested. Without any cooperation with the victims, war laws are also being drawn up. For this reason, Mr Prime Minister, I ask: Is the government with the social partners and civil society really willing to cooperate only if and when they resist its unilateral treatment? How long, despite other assurances, will he continue to apply such practice? Does the government really think it's self-sufficient? Does he really believe that important reforms are possible without a wider social consensus? Doesn't he think it's necessary to look for allies for important reforms? Has she not yet recognized that cooperation with affected and interested public is a shorter way to make everything else seem to be shorter and in fact causes much more problems and less efficiency? I would ask that this practice be changed not only in words but also in actions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u25	Thank you, Mr. Run. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u26	Thank you for asking. If we went to do some statistics on how many different groups or representatives of civil society we had met in these four months, both myself and the Prime Minister and my fellow ministers, and compared this to the same number in any of the mandates of the previous governments, I think that statistics would be very favourable for this government, at least when it comes to the Prime Minister. Since we've been comparing a little of this stuff, I don't think it's ever happened that there are so many direct conversations and meetings with different representatives of civil society when it comes to conceptual issues or when it comes to solving some pressing problems. So it is important to be aware that we are talking about these things that we do not have only five or six groups in Slovenia or forms of organised civil society, only those that are the loudest. Usually it is not always that way, I will not say that it is normal, but it is not always that one who is the loudest one who protestes the most loudly against a proposal, that it is the most justified or in fact that it is wrong. Many of the loudest are those who defend privileges because they also have the means to properly organize and abuse themselves and usually have a lot of support. Significantly more numerous categories of people, who may also be affected by such or other measures, are taken and the consequences are not always well foreseen, but you do not hear the voices of protests because they are unorganised or because some decades are used to suffering and still suffer and think that nothing is worth it. That's how I'd warn you about this generalization. He's not always the loudest, even the most affected. As far as this particular case of the Radio Television Act is concerned, you said that everyone, even international relations, protested. I have to say that representatives of these international alliances don't watch our television and don't listen to our radio. They listened to messages from interested people in Slovenia. But look at the miracle! However, those who pay for this television, which is supposed to be public, although the state has established by law that we must pay the contribution at the same time or all those who have electrical connections, have been determined by law, and they have not protested anything. We did not see any strong protests by viewers when the government proposed this law. If this were true of what was evident to the government, it would be the first to protest precisely those who pay and watch this television and listen to the radio. But probably, like everyone in this room, we know if we are honest that the situation is not good, that things need to be regulated, that certain things need to be corrected, that things need to be made transparent, and that we also put Slovenian national radio and television on some healthy solid basis, such as in developed European countries, which we want to imitate or at least talk about. As regards the search for alliances in important reforms. Yes, we will look for these alliances in important reforms, but so far we have not proposed any important reforms to this national assembly in these few months. What we are now talking about is either amendments to laws or adjustments to a situation that has been discussed for years and years and the need for these corrections is very clear. In the coming years, however, there will be many proposals for important strategic reforms on this bench. We will be happy to have as much consensus as possible on this, take enough time to discuss and coordinate and seek out all the alliances [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Anyone who doesn't explicitly object will be with us. [[...]] We're going to want to get as much support as possible. We are aware, however, that there will always be someone who opposes these proposals because they are being made by this government.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u27	Thank you, Mr. President. Would you like an additional explanation? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u28	Thank you very much. Mr President, I have asked you specific questions about specific legislation. In no case have you answered my question as to what you have the right to. You told me that you have a number of conversations that I can't argue with, but are not related to the drafting of legislation that is in Parliament. You tried to put in a weird light the president of an international press organization, which is your problem, not mine. I just read the letter. I believe that he has read the law and observed an important difference between the previous and the present law. You've generalized some of our findings. I don't think you said what you were asked in the answer. I would like to say that I think that you owe and that it would be useful for all, for the government, for the national assembly, for Slovenia, that when more important or less important, this is a matter of both partners, not just the government, including the affected, the legislation is preparing that there is as much cooperation as possible, that you are trying to find common solutions, that you are obliged to have a prior partnership, if you want to have a partnership, but not the will and self-sufficiency of the government, and that you are obliged to tell us that you have done these interviews, but that you have sometimes not been successful, as we understand, because your concept and the situation of the affected may be different. Until you do so, and in any of the above cases you have not done so, please do not at least promise to grow a partnership, to cultivate cooperation with the affected. Indeed, the facts speak in a completely different way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u29	Thank you, Mr. Run. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u30	So there will be no misunderstandings, I will read again the questions, each one individually, and I will answer again. Is the government really willing to cooperate with social partners and civil society only if they do not publicly oppose its unilateral behaviour? No, no, no. Always. Next question: How long, despite other assurances, will it apply such practice? It's not in effect, so it won't be in the future. Does the government really think it's self-sufficient? Don't think. Does he really believe that important reforms are possible without a wider social consensus? He doesn't believe it. Doesn't he think we should look for allies? We think it's necessary to look for allies, and we even invited the United List into the coalition, and she refused. Hasn't she met yet? [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] At the time it was the United List, now they're Social Democrats, I'm sorry. Has she not yet recognized that cooperation with the affected and interested public is only a seemingly longer way to go? We have known this since before, and in fact far more effective and long-term success. Those were the questions, and I answered them.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u31	Thank you, Mr. President. Next, please don't disturb the session. [[...]] The following will ask the President a question or question, Mrs Barbara Žgajner Tavš, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u32	Thank you so much for saying that. Days ago, your Minister, Mr Drobnič, at the presentation of the incomprehensible, I will say, the so-called war laws, based on the quack of international standards on eliminating discrimination among people, that we are moving away from the ideological understanding of history. Please! I ask you: Is not the ideological change in historical facts just the equation of aggressors with freedom fighters or their glorification and justification for crimes against the Slovenian people? Europe has given a clear signal. The 60th anniversary of the victory over Nazism and the reminder that World War II must never be repeated. No wonder the government did not find a comparable arrangement in any other European country when drafting a law that magnifies domestic traitors. May I remind you that the local traitors have made public the military formation of the German army and have thus become aggressors on the side of the Nazis, who today condemn the entire world. They were working against the Slovenian nation, at a time when it was doomed to extermination. Nevertheless, with all due respect, I fear that the new policy in the field of half-lived history is unacceptable. The fact is, with obvious ignorance, you also accompanied the celebrations of the 60th anniversary of the victory over Nazism. Such an attitude cannot be proud of us. More. The Slovenian government wants to evaluate all the values of self-reliance during the NOB period and, following a reduced procedure, spit on its own past by correcting the war legislation that is supposed to be necessary, even more than social and economic issues. Why does the government not show responsibility to its own people for crimes committed on Slovenian soil by the Italian occupationist? Criminal charges are written and the Slovenian National Party is the only, regrettably, to fight for war aggressors to pay for crimes against humanity. Let me remind you of the provisions of the Criminal Code of the Republic of Slovenia and other international acts. Crimes against humanity don't get old. What the government will do in so many written criminal charges, we have a whole bunch of these complaints written back in Yugoslavia. Here show your attitude towards your own people and your own history. And let me finish because time is chasing me. To the victims in memory, I live in a reminder. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. And all laws must be made subject to this, which three laws cannot be claimed for these wars. Why, I'm asking you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u33	Thank you, Mrs. Squire. Mr. President, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u34	Thank you for asking. First of all, let me say that he doesn't claim that anyone wants to change historical facts. Historical facts cannot be changed. What happened happened. That's a fact. For the time being, no theory or formula of the facts cannot be changed. Rather, these facts can be spoken of differently or otherwise illuminated; different options and interpretations are allowed here. There are still discussions between historians about things that happened a thousand years ago or two hundred years ago, but that doesn't change what happened. Since this cannot be done, even if it can be done, this government has no purpose to change the facts and does not want to deal with anything in this direction. As for the marking of the end of World War II and the victory over Nazism, I spoke about this at the previous meeting when I answered the question of honourable Member Miran Porč. During this time, the Committee on State Celebrations proposed and the government adopted a programme of state celebrations for this year. At least two national celebrations will be directly linked to this anniversary. One national celebration will be held in Cankarjev dom on 9 May, and another national celebration will be held in Primorska on September. In this regard, the matter is probably quite the opposite of what has been seen. It probably hasn't happened yet, not even on the 50th anniversary that this event is marked by two national celebrations in the same year. With regard to the laws you mentioned, the debate in this Chamber will continue. There was certainly no purpose for the government to deal with changing any ideological foundations. The purpose of these laws, which can, of course, be easily derived from the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which states that we all have the same rights and that it is not permissible to make differences within the same categories on the basis of certain political or other origins, is, of course, to amend, amend and amend in this procedure. That's all the truth about it. If there is anything else here, as we have already said, things can be changed and complemented. Finally, it is a parliamentary procedure. And it's not about all the laws of the same thing, I don't know why it's caught up now, like it's a threesome talking about the same thing. The laws speak of various matters, at least one of them is correcting the error of the previous mandate. The fact that it was a mistake when a disputed inscription was put to the graves agrees with a very large part of the lay and professional public. This was a proposal from the competent Commission of the Government already in the previous mandate, which we are now simply implementing. That is why this was done at that time. Once again, this government has no intention of changing historical facts, because it is also totally impossible.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u35	Thank you, Mr. President. Does the Member want to supplement the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u36	Thank you very much again for your word. At the outset, I must say that I am sure and that I believe that you have not finally been given a mandate to take Slovenia and Slovenia to the future and not change the past. However, I regret that you did not really understand my question. The first thing that bothered me, you were talking about the establishment of the first Slovenian government. This was the question raised at the previous meeting. As far as my question is concerned, the 60th anniversary of the victory over Nazism, which is also taking place today, was Monday. And I'm going to say that, in fact, I can't explain my ignorance of the memory of, once again, the 60th anniversary of victory over Nazism. It is embarrassing for the Slovenian people that no one has responded to a number of dispatches, invitations and appeals. Representatives of the Slovenian official delegation were not at any of the ceremony to commemorate the liberation of concentration camps. They were just former Slovenian interns. I ask you, Mr President, can we be proud of such a government? Once again, I would like to emphasise, in fact, history is not going to change, history is clear, as you yourself have found. That is why there is no reason, and I note this and stress, for the reopening of the controversy, which is declassified and directed by a policy which, with similar proposals, shows a clear inability to go beyond its ideological evaluation of history.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u37	Thank you, Mrs. Zginer Tavsh. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u38	When we talk about the first Slovenian government, there will be a lot of opportunities and attention to the establishment of the first Slovenian national government, it will be possible to devote autumn this year, when the national celebration will also be the first time that Štajerska and Prekmurje join Slovenia, to the celebration of the Master's Business. At that time, the first Slovenian national government was established and we will then discuss it. As far as it is clear, the representatives of the State did not participate in these events, which were or will be organised upon liberation from concentration camps. Of course it doesn't. They participated in all the major events held so far, with the President of the country in charge, the Minister of Education goes to a similar ceremony in Krakow in the short term. Slovenia has responded to these things in a manner that is appropriate. I also agree with your finding that this government has sworn to the future more than anything else. We try to hold on to this, and we will try to stick to the future. Unfortunately, I must conclude that such impatient ideological discourses, as they have occurred today in this House, do not contribute to this. This is only after needlessly sharpening the atmosphere, bringing back the debate at some point, which I think is the perfect consensus in Slovenia that they should never happen again and that we all thought was over. I would therefore appeal to all of us to avoid this impatient ideological discourse because it does not contribute to anything.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u39	Thank you, Mr. President. Master Franz Žnidaršič. Mrs. Zginer, would you like a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u40	Thank you very much. I must say that I have assessed that it was in the response of the Prime Minister, in the first and second parts, to a huge bluff. Probably because he'll get another positive point in the public eye. But I'll say the facts are different. And last but not least, Mr President, you are reopening these subjects that were [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u41	Ma'am. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u42	at least completed in the National Assembly. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u43	Madam Members, there is no further discussion. Do you have a procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u44	I will move immediately to Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure, which allows me to request a broader debate within the framework of the National Assembly on this subject or on the response of the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u45	Thank you. We will vote on the proposal tomorrow at the time of the vote. Master Franz Žnidaršič will ask the Prime Minister a question on behalf of DeSUS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the National Assembly. Dear Prime Minister! Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! At a previous meeting on Thursday, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia confirmed the starting point for the 2005 budget rebalancing. I ask the Prime Minister: How do you comment on these starting points for the preparation of the balance sheet? Can you explain the main lines? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u47	Thank you, Mr. Znidarsic. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u48	Thank you for asking. We have touched on this subject in part in answer to the first question. In fact, last week the government set out the starting points for the preparation of the budget rebalancing. This was based on a forecast that was slightly more optimistic than when the 2004 and 2005 budget was being prepared. As has already been said here, revenues are expected to be around 43 billion more, but the government has, as is known, also faced with obligations to be met due to legislative change or simply due to naked facts and the coverage of which was not planned in the 2005 budget adopted. Furthermore, the government is trying to reduce public debt by these frameworks for the preparation of the 2005 budget rebalancing so much that we will be on the safe side when it comes to meeting this euro takeover criterion. Thus, in these starting points it is envisaged that the budget deficit from the initially projected 112 billion will be reduced to 92 billion dollars, which means at the end of 1.4% of the budget deficit and represents a secure number for us according to the criteria. Of course, in the part where we have to cover our obligations from before, there is a large part of those that simply cannot be avoided. Given that there is very little room for manoeuvre due to legislation such as that which gives rights that have not been reduced at this time, the budgetary users of the manoeuvre space are very few. There has been much talk about the fact that this part of the uncovered liabilities, calculated at 70 billion, is not so much and that this is an imaginary number. I have said many times that this government would be very happy if someone actually pointed to any more surplus resources or resources and made this number more imaginary. But unfortunately, these are bare facts. What's it made of? In these starting points for the budget rebalancing proposal, we had to provide additional wage funds in public administration, as I mentioned earlier, at 7.4 billion because the number of employees has increased. It has increased significantly at this time, but not reduced, as promised, due to transfers to public institutions. This is mainly for salaries in education, 20 billion for the Ministry of Education and Sport, more than 2 billion for higher education and science, then there is an obligation on the basis of a Constitutional Court decision. This is a 5 billion interest on transport tax and the balance, as far as available, on covering the railway deficit. That's what was discovered at that time. I hope there are no major surprises anywhere else. As already mentioned, we will have to provide an additional amount of SIT 8 billion in both balance sheets, i.e. an account of financial claims and investments, to pay off state guarantees that were provided without adequate coverage. So the maneuvering space is relatively small. However, the government has pursued another objective in preparing the baselines for the budget's rebalancing, which is to make this space more transparent. In this context, pension debts have also been included in the budget's balance sheet [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] and medical bills and tried to provide for some items that have so far been rather opaque, significantly greater transparency. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u49	Thank you, Mr. President. The Member wants to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u50	I understand from these comments that the financial situation of the State, as it appears, is somewhat more favourable than expected, so I firmly believe that they will not suffer from written agreements in the coalition concerning those changes concerning the law on pension and disability insurance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u51	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Would you like a word, Mr. President? [[No, no, ……]] Thank you. This concludes the first set of issues raised by the Prime Minister. Mr Minister for Higher Education, Science and Technology Dr Jura Zupan owes us yet another answer to the question raised at the previous meeting of the National Assembly. Since Mr. Zupan is gone, this debt is transferred to the next meeting. We are moving on to questions of Members and Members. The first question will be to the Minister of Transport, Mr Mag. Janez Bozič, Mr. Joseph Skolch has set up. He's not here. Excuse me. The following is on the list to ask Mr Aurelio Juri, who will raise the question of the question to the Minister of Defence, Mr Karl Erjavac. He's not here either. You can ask the question and the answer will follow at the next meeting, if you wish, or in writing. Here you go, Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u52	Of course, I wanted the Minister to be here, but you will familiarize him with this question and I expect an answer. I was going to ask the Minister and ask him: Is he aware of the special role of the Portoroz Coastal Aviation Centre in the framework of the protection and rescue system and the problems, in particular the material problems, which are covered by the additional tasks and the inadequate response of the competent administrations? What's this all about? For those who do not know this, the only aerobic club in Slovenia is performing observational flights for the purposes not only of fire safety but also of alarms against the possibility of pollution of the sea. Well, if the Ministry and the Minister are aware of the issue, I am counting on an appropriate intervention; if not immediately, at least at the time of the projected budget rebalancing. Otherwise, the question is: By what time and how will the systematic control of the Slovenian sea from the air last, or Slovenia, to the obligations that follow the decision of the Commission of the European Union on the environment of 14 November 2003, which states that all EU maritime states, EU maritime members, must control their sea at least during the day? You know, the North Adriatic as a semi-closed sea is extremely vulnerable. There are also important transport lines with oil derivatives that would be catastrophic for the sea and the coast in the event of untimely alarm and action. And leaking ballast water, as we know, is a special story. And with regard to air fire action, I would ask the Minister whether, at the Ministry, when they plan to increase military transport capacity by purchasing a new transport aircraft, they would rather purchase an aircraft like CANADAIR or Airtractor. [[?]] , which would be easier to keep track of more and more severe fires that destroy our forests. Helicopters, including COUGAR, transport too little water to make fires more efficient and easier in the face of more demanding fires. As far as I am aware, the purchase of these aircraft is possible with exceptional benefits from EU funds, with grants of up to 60% of the value of the aircraft, but of course these tenders should be submitted. I expect the Minister to take this question of mine as an initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u53	Thank you, Mr. Yuri. The next question will be the question of Mr Dimitrij Kovacic to the Minister for Finance, who is not and has apologized. You can ask a question if you want.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Since the purchase of the Slovenian Investment Bank by Ljubljana's Energetics company, it has been estimated for three and a half years. Nearly 4 billion public money was invested in this purchase. Not only has the public company allocated its financial resources for the purpose for which it is not competent and is not subject to its public activity, but the public funds invested have virtually collapsed since the SIB was sold to the New Ljubljana Bank in the spring of 2004 along with the transactions that the public energy company and the Ljubljana Holding in the form of tied trade sold to the New Ljubljana Bank. The total sales value of SIB and transferred transactions amounted to approximately 400 million Slovenian tolars. This means that the SIB itself was sold without any compensation or even negative value, since the value of the transferred transactions is certainly above 400 million Slovenian tolars. What later happened to the SIB bank, whose owner became Nova Ljubljanska banka, is unknown to me. However, I was informed without having received any documented information that Nova Ljubljanska Banka sold to the Bank of Claims held by SIB. And then Factor Bank sold these claims forward. I am not aware of the claims of the SIB. However, the selling value of these claims is expected to significantly exceed the value at which the public energy company sold the SIB, along with other transactions that I have already mentioned. If the indications I spoke about are true, then there is a high likelihood that the sale of SIB by the public company Energetics was also harmful, since the bank was given free or even at a negative price to the buyer, this is the New Ljubljana Bank. Therefore, I ask you to provide me with precise information on the claims of the Bank of Nova Ljubljanska Banka, which claims are their nominal and sales value, and, if possible, what was the further fate of these claims. Thank you for your answer as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u55	Thank you, Mr. Kovacich. I will now give my word to Mr Joseph Školč, who was at the moment when I invited him to ask the question of the Member of Parliament, between the doors and it was really a very short time of misunderstanding. In doing so, however, I would point out that in the future, in the absence, we will not give again the opportunity to ask questions; at this point, I would point out once again, very vaguely - it was, it was not in the Chamber and that is why we are allowing it to ask a question. He's gonna put it on the Minister of Transport. Janez Christmas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u56	Thank you very much, Mr President, for this gesture of goodwill. To the Minister, Mr Bozic, I will ask a simple question in connection with building or investing in roads in northern Primorska. Members and Members of the National Assembly will remember that in a relatively short period of time, the Court has suffered a large number of accidents, including three earthquakes. From this title a special law was passed and the additions of this law from July last year provide that within five years the country would invest 2 billion 200 million tolars in this network of roads from Vršić to Željenje with a break from Bovec to Predil. I ask Minister Bozič: Is the rebalancing, since this law has been passed on time, that is what this year is supposed to mean, and which sections will be made of this title? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u57	Thank you, Mr. Skull. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u58	Thank you so much for asking. Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! So at the Ministry of Transport, we are very aware that, of course, the Rapid Development Authority needs normal and as good road connections as possible, especially roads which are also transportable in wintertime. Unfortunately, however, we must also take into account the real possibilities, as the Ministry will have to tackle unfunded liabilities totalling around EUR 29 billion in the preparation of the budget balance for this year and, of course, in the area of the Road Directorate, we need to provide an additional EUR 3.66 billion for additional commitments that have not been taken into account in the 2005 budget. And if I add them briefly: it is 1.8 billion tolls for bus and bus concessions, then we have to provide 500 million tolls for measures to mitigate the effects of increased freight traffic on the G3 main road, that is at Počehova-Lendava section, then about 788 million tolars to increase winter service activity this winter, 200 million tolars to be necessary measures under the road safety law, 185 million tolars to introduce digital tachographs and 188 million tolls to co-finance projects at border crossings with the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, it follows from the above that, given the uncovered obligations in the work of our Ministry of Transport in the previous period, it will unfortunately not be possible to provide a total of 2.2 billion tolls for the implementation of investment maintenance and for the construction of state roads in Soča, but only part of this year. Of course, we are aware that in this year's year it will be possible to provide only around 100 million tolars on the roads of the law after the earthquake reconstruction of the buildings and to encourage development in the Society to produce documentation and to actually carry out investment works around a little less than 200 million tolars. As regards the provision of funds for the implementation of investment maintenance and the construction of state roads in Posoča in the coming years, I can say that the Ministry of Transport is already preparing a comprehensive national programme for the modernisation of the state road network, which will also cover all necessary measures for the modernisation of state roads in Posoča. For this national programme, we are already looking at other possible sources of funding in addition to the budget, such as cohesion funds, European Investment Bank loans, bond issuance and, of course, the possibility of including private resources in different forms. Therefore, the adoption of a national programme for the modernisation of the state road network will be one of the most important objectives of the transport ministry in the coming year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u59	Thank you, Minister. The Member wants to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u60	Thank you very much. So, on the basis of the answer, I can conclude that there will be a good 10% of the funds that we have received from both laws at the time of the earthquake, as far as roads are concerned, if there are any. This means that this sensitive region will go back even more as we look, I will say, a problem across Slovenia. What surprises me is that the parties who now make up the government - as well as the ministers who are following in this government and the first minister who have provided unselfish assistance to these places - have seen the inefficiency of the renovations of past years, are unable to rebalance these large funds, which are minimal to the fact that these places from the Church via Tolmin, Kobarid and Bovec are even accessible to Slovenia. I therefore call for you to think about these things before the rebalancing, because this means a great disappointment for the people in Posač and for all those who have participated in other forms of assistance.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u61	Thank you, Mr. Skull. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u62	Thank you so much for the extra word. I would like to reply to the Member that, in the context of the preparation of the budget or the budget rebalancing, I will continue to fight to ensure that more resources are provided than I have mentioned, but I must openly say that the lack of funds arising from the commitments already made, which have not been covered by 3.66 billion, is a fact. However, I must say that we will continue to try to respect the law, which, at the time of its adoption, did not have its coverage in the planned budgets or financial plans for the years we took over. Therefore, we will certainly ensure, as far as possible, compliance with this law under the national road network modernisation programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u63	Thank you, Mr. Minister Christmas. The following question will be posed to the Minister for Environment and Space by Janez Podobnik. Borut Saiovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Colleagues, colleagues, ministerial council. Minister Janez Podobnik, my question concerns the current issue of waste management in Slovenia. The question is still very topical and correct in many Slovenian regions, and it is necessary for us to tackle the problem radically during this time. Above all, I think it is extremely important that if we leave that old waste management where each of the individual municipalities was responsible for doing this on its own and go into a broader context, this is a true regional waste management, it seems to me that it is extremely important for us to make this scheme one for the whole of Slovenia. That's what it says: Do we now have a position on how many regional centres will be in Slovenia and about where they should stand? Above all, it seems strange to me that the Slovenian region is Ljubljana, where the most waste is produced in one place and where the problem of this landfill in Bar is extremely problematic from the point of view of the environment, we are not solving it first. I want to know: Where these points will be, because transport and transport costs represent one of the important items. Somewhere I don't care how economical it would be for waste, say, from Moravč, near Ljubljana, we drive to a regional centre in Gorenjsko, why not to Ljubljana, which is twice as close. And above all, where in this story will the establishment of the regional centre be asked about the opinion of the local community? This is said, we may be negotiating a problem in Ljubljana, but the right way would be when this problem is handled enough to go to a particular local community, to a particular place and then ask those who will be most affected by this regional landfill if it comes to it. I would also ask: Where are these European criteria, what is this threshold for cost-effective waste management? These theories that these modern centers should have at least over 200,000 inhabitants don't always make sense to me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u65	Thank you, Mr. Sayovic. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u66	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Ambassador Mag. Saivitz! I'm going to try to answer the questions you've given me in this short time; I don't know if I'm going to make it through. First of all, it's about economic legality. The treatment of waste is now also considered to be subject to basic economic legality, as you can see in your own question. Experience, in particular European experience, shows that the management of municipal waste can only be effectively and rationally sorry for relatively large amounts of waste. Transport to these devices is also a very important element of the cost itself. In recent years, in cooperation with the experts with extensive analyses and expertise that have taken account of transport infrastructure in addition to these economic data, it has been concluded that the meaningful problem of municipal waste is to be addressed within the framework of the so-called regional waste management centres. However, for individual regions of Slovenia it was found that within the regional centres it can also be a suitable solution with facilities and facilities in so-called sub-centres at different locations. It is therefore necessary to establish circular functional areas with relevant waste management centres at the inter-ethnic or regional level. What were the guidelines for this spatial decision: the amount of waste, the number of inhabitants, the transport route, the state of organisation on the ground, taking into account existing inter-urban links, and finally allowing opportunities for different levels of integration of local communities. Thus, as it is said, on the basis of spatial, natural, settlement, technical and technological economics and logistics, Slovenia has opted for the concept of a regional or inter-ethnic approach. And in our view, this approach is just and feasible. You asked how the regional design for municipal waste management is being implemented. In Slovenia very different, very, very different. I have the data to show well in Dolenjska, praise to Pomure, quite well shown or well shown by Celje, this is Bukovzlak. It doesn't look good in southern Primorska. Goreńska is in crisis in this area. Now I'm talking about first-order centers. Under this project and approach, there are second-order centres, covering an area of between 55 and 90 000 inhabitants. First-order centres or regional waste management centres, which are the highest form, include 90 000 or more. So the limit is 90,000, not 200,000, so there's no misunderstanding. I would also like to say that, on the basis of some initiatives as Minister, I have taken the initiative to convene a working meeting entitled Waste Management in Gorenjska - we will meet again this week, a narrow working group, I would like to commend the mayors, Members and others who have actively approached this issue - and it has proved that three possible locations in Gorenjska have shown themselves potentially in this large area. Three possible locations and now it is up to us, in politics, in the profession, in the economy, in technology and, of course, also in cooperation with the local population and municipalities to find an optimal solution. I also traced the rent issue to your question. How's the rent going to be accounted for? Until now, pensions have been accounted for primarily on the basis of so-called negotiations between investors and the local community. Given that approximately 12 regional waste management centres are most likely to be planned in the Republic of Slovenia, there may be a few more, we will foresee the way in which the rent is accounted for in a sub-legislative act. As for example, so-called environmental benefits or concession revenues are now defined - a known division: 40% of the concession goes to the country and 60 percent to the local community. However, if we are specifically talking about a regional waste centre, this will be an adequate amount of waste brought to the centre, and this amount would then also be a credit rating due to the waste management centre belonging to the local community. The current law on environmental protection requires us to settle the rent issue by means of a sub-legislative act, and that is what we will do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u67	Thank you, Minister. Does the Member wish to complete the reply? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u68	Thank you very much. I am pleased with the question of the general nature of the grave, but I would like to explain it mainly in two ways: When will the debate begin in the affected local communities? I believe that they are one of the basic or first steps in which we should discuss these matters both in the congregations, in the municipal councils, and in the affected local communities. It also seems irresponsible to me that at this stage, when the criteria for rent are not known, it is determined which would benefit them in the resolution of imported municipal problems, as a basic criterion they wave with the criterion of the money obtained for the local community. I think that one of the basic objectives in Slovenia is to take care of waste in an environmentally acceptable way, but our citizens and citizens have the highest value of a clean and healthy environment, not some of Jude's money at the expense of waste management. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u69	Thank you, Mr. Sayovic. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u70	Thank you very much. A brief additional comment on the Member's supplementary question. Debates in municipal councils should have been active for several years. And in those municipal councils, in those regions that I mentioned earlier as a positive case, these debates have taken place, there has also been a political consensus, which has also received the support of the profession, and there is in principle a problem of resolution; there are already building permits, there are centres being built, with the help of European funds and Slovenian, domestic funds. In some areas, however, there are many historical and other antagonisms, mistrust, including questions about who will be the first, who will be the bearer, such as the company or so on. So, my invitation and invitation are, in those areas where this agreement is not yet available, open up to this debate, and the ministry will play an important role as coordinator here, not least that will help in the preparation of quality documents, so that we can report these projects to the European funds. It is also my firm belief that the accrued rent is not Jude's money, although you said it somewhat in the parable, but that it is a European practice again. Before that, however, there must be an agreement with the local population and the local community, where such a centre is then located. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u71	Thank you, Minister. Also, Mr Environment and Space Minister Janez similariku will be asked a question by Mr Bojan Kontič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u72	Thank you very much, Mr. President. All in attendance, all in attendance! On 7 February this year, Mr Peter Rezman from Šostanja asked the Minister, Mr Janez Podobnik, three questions related to the burning of waste at the Šostanj thermal power plant. He's received an answer, but it's pretty incomplete. As the author of these issues has already written down, it cannot be argued that the competent authorities in the Shaleska Valley and at the level of the country have not for at least 20 years been sincerely trying to correct the consequences of mining and electricity production in the valley, but the degradation of the environment is so great that recovery will never be possible in its entirety. Coal mining and electricity production were and are still important for both the local community and the country, so that in the valley we have largely opposed all radical interventions that would endanger both activities, coal production and electricity production. This, of course, does not mean that we agree to additional ecological burdens that are not relevant to the fate of the energy giant, which is a reliable thermal power plant in Šostanj. Residents of the local community of Pessje, which borders the municipality of Velenje to the municipality of Šostjanj, warned me that at the end of March and in early April they had seen a strong smell. They suspect it's due to the incineration of waste at the Chestnut plant. Minister, I ask you, for the first time: Have they been incinerated in the past months at the Chestnut power plant besides coal and bone flour for any other waste, or is it intended to do so in the future? Secondly: Is the bone meal incineration refund paid for damage caused by bone meal incineration, or is it compensation for the potential risk of incineration of hazardous waste? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u73	Thank you, Mr. Kontic. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Dear Member Kontic, it is true that, as Minister, it took me a little longer to answer your fellow citizen's three questions about the burning of waste at the Chestnut plant. I also met informally with the management of the Šostanja thermal power plant on the occasion of one of my work visits to your places. I also absolutely support this basic intention in this letter, that many in your places are trying to correct the consequences of mining and electricity production in the valley. And it is true that environmental degradation is great and that the most likely recovery will not be completely possible, completely. I can answer your specific question very briefly. Of course, I have asked myself about the competent services, which I must trust in principle. It is unknown to me, as Minister and our services, that in recent months we would be incinerated at the Shoštanj thermal power plant in addition to coal and bone flour other wastes! We don't know that. It must be said that bone flour is not considered hazardous waste, as it is also not clear from the question that it is so claimed. You're referring to the sense of a strong stench detected by the inhabitants of the local Pesse community. If there were anything in this respect, I would have been duly informed by the competent inspectorates, but I wasn't. But there's more I'd like to say. In the framework of the permits obtained by the Šostanj thermal power plant for waste treatment and co-incineration, which is currently under discussion, it also states that the Šostanj thermoelectric power plant must verify the results of the assessment of hazardous waste and, in accordance with the rules on waste management, maintain a number of records which are also of a public nature; this means that their accessibility is governed by the law on access to information of a public nature. If any of these people turned to the leadership of the Šostjanj thermal power plant, I am sure that leadership would also take into account this provision of the law on access to information of a public nature. As for the question of the burning of bone flour or damage, I can answer again briefly, the payments are intended for the congregation as a rent because it has agreed, given its consent, the municipal council has given this to Šostanje, to carry out this activity. As it is known, in recent years the municipality has decided, after reflection, to spend much or all of these resources, from this rent, on the construction of a new primary school. Thus, I do not see any open questions in this segment, but of course it is not a pension which would be compensated for the potential danger, but it is simply a pension for the consent of the place, the municipality, to carry out this activity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u75	Thank you, Minister. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u76	I have no reason not to believe you, Mr. Secretary. However, I'm curious, in your response, you were saying that "you didn't notice or that you didn't know." I wonder if you can claim that this is so that nothing else is burned in the Chestnut plant besides coal and bone flour. As will be the case in the future, I did not detect from your response, but it can be seen from the new list of incinerators that under one of the classification numbers it is also recorded that hazardous wastes under H9, namely waste generated in research, diagnostics, treatment and prevention in veterinary activities, are those which, in terms of prevention, require specific treatment in the collection and disposal of the infection and were referred to as infectious by March 2001. This was also written by the author of the letter when he asked you for an answer. I wonder: Is it possible to ensure that the public is informed not only at the invitation of the public but that the public is informed by the management of the thermal power plant Šostanj whenever incineration is done, which is not the burning of coal and bone flour? And that. In view of the fact that you were talking about rent - and not to be misunderstood, it is right that the municipality of Šoštanj receives this rent because waste such as bone flour is being incinerated there and the citizens actually agreed to it. I wonder: Where do you think this burning ends: is this the border of the congregation of Šostjanj and, on the other hand, the border of the municipality of Velenje? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u77	Thank you, Mr. Kontic. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u78	First, about the last part of the question. As we know that this border between the municipality of Šostjanj and the municipality of Velenje is very close to the location of this large energy system, it is understandable that this limit is such that it also partially affects life in the neighbouring municipality of Velenje. It is also an agreement to move forward within both congregations, but formally, I am not more familiar with the procedure, but only in the congregation of Šostanj. At that time, the municipal council decided as it had decided. With regard to your first question, which you have repeated, I must assure you here only that I have received assurances from the most responsible members of the team I run at the Ministry of Environment and Space that we are not aware of any other waste being incinerated at the Ministry. You're also asking the question of control. Control over the implementation of co-incineration of bone flour and the management of these wastes within the thermal power plant Šostanj is carried out by an environmental inspection. There is also a preventive approach to infecting workers, and this is the responsibility of an inspectorate for protection at work. And another of the important provisions set out in the environmental agency's authorisation: 'Thermal Power Plant Šostanj must ensure the implementation of operational monitoring of emissions of substances into the air from the device during the co-incineration of waste according to the programme'. And one more thing. The thermal power plant of Šostanj must ensure their verification prior to co-incineration, including a review of the written accompanying documentation on waste and the identification of waste by weighing and visual inspection according to the type, quantity and characteristics of the waste. I don't have any information that the Chestnut power plant isn't doing this. If anyone has any other information, then we have a formal procedure to verify it through inspections and other controls. If I get any indictments, as Minister, I'll initiate the procedure myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u79	Thank you, Minister. Mrs Maria Possonec will also ask the Minister for Environment and Space Janez Podobnik a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Nice greetings to all present! I also have a question about waste, namely radioactive waste. I wonder: Do you think the Great Pole is suitable as one of the locations for the construction of a radioactive waste warehouse? In doing so, I think mainly that the Great Pole is located in an area that is inappropriate both in terms of soil composition and in terms of its geographical location and also of geographical smallness. In this area, too, the disease of people with cancer is already greatly increased - I mean Prekmurje. You do not think it would be necessary for an opinion to ask the neighboring congregation, which will share with the Great Pole all the consequences of this reckless decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u81	Thank you, Mrs. Poxon. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Thank you for the question, honourable Members Maria Pozsonec. I could first give credit to the Agency for Radioactive Waste, which for a number of years managed to complete the first phase of the application of local communities to participate in the spatial disposal of low- and medium-radioactive waste. We are all aware here that the agency has received eight applications, including the application of the municipality of Velika Polana, which Mrs Maria Pozsonec is asking about. These applications will also be evaluated after a precise timetable by the end of May 2005, i.e. a month and a half, with very professionally clear starting points on the difficulty of building a landfill and, of course, the likelihood that the social acceptability of the local environment for this facility, social acceptability, i.e. the consent of the local environment, will allow the building and operation of such a facility to continue. I hope you understand that today I cannot give you a clearer answer to your question. In fact, this would have entered into the process itself and in some way would have prejudged the decisions. However, I am sure that the Agency for Radioactive Waste will be among these possible alternatives - and it is therefore good that as many as eight, potentially eight municipalities have signed up, that the Agency for Radioactive Waste will propose between these possible alternatives in the process of continuing those that will be environmentally acceptable. I am aware of the geographical position of Velika Polana, and I know that there are some congregations in this congregation that have a slightly different opinion. As regards cancer itself, there is a challenge for the epidemiological and second professions to deal seriously with this issue of what is the reason for this increased disease. But these can only be additional professional arguments in the very process of the radioactive waste agency. That's it. The landfill of low and medium-radioactive waste must ensure, during and after its operation, the complete insulation of the waste from the biosphere and the human environment, and for the entire time that the radioactivity of these wastes is such that it is professionally stated that it is not negligible. Therefore, the objective of long-term insulation in storage of contained radioactive substances is to achieve it by combining technical barriers in the design of landfill and also natural geological barriers in its base and surroundings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u83	Thank you, Minister. Here you go, Madam Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u84	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary, for your answer. However, I must say that I cannot share this enthusiasm with you about self-declaration, I would be more pleased if both the state and the agency achieved that Croatia would also accept its share of responsibility and fulfil its part of responsibility; so that they would not seek storage again.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u85	Thank you, Mrs. Poxon. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Mrs Parliament has now opened up a new aspect of this issue. But just by seriously and responsibly going home as a country, at the home threshold to find our own potential location and carry out all the procedures, we will have the strongest argument that we are also demanding the exact same procedure from the neighbouring Republic of Croatia. And if we do this, I will be significantly more credible in this request, which is also enshrined in the Interstate Agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia on the Legal Relations of the Krška Nuclear Power Plant.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u87	Thank you, Minister. Mr Rudolf Moge will ask the Minister for Education and Sport, Dr Milan Beast. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u88	President, thank you so much for your word. The Honourable Minister. There are doubts in the public about the justification of the solutions you have recently proposed. How do you respond to these doubts? That's my question. But I'll give you some examples. First time. Shortly after the appointment of the minister, you celebrated yourself with an incompetent intervention in the preparation of graduate issues in the field of history. Professor Repe has shown you that it would be better to stay within the fields of your profession and, more importantly, within the competence of the Ministry of Education in your comments. Another time. In recent times, however, experts have been warned in public about the indiscretion, professional misconduct and even the illegality of your interventions into Slovenian education. In connection with the outrageous example of the primary school of Bršlín, you have been approached by 23 doctors of science who remind you of the inappropriateness of your so-called "Beast Model" to solve the problem of Roma education and education, as well as that your solution is contrary to the laws of this country. Third time. The Professional Council of the Republic of Slovenia for General Education and Association of Directors of Slovenia reminds you of the professional inadequacy and indiscretion in interfering with external knowledge checks at the nine-year primary school. Both do not support your proposal to amend the law. Even if I now leave behind your reckless prediction of limiting admission to high school, it becomes evident that you are going with expertise and imagination and your way of working on the ministry each way. I ask you: What are you going to do, Mr. Minister, that these paths meet at least occasionally? Do you intend to keep pushing your head into the sand before professional arguments or will the argument prevail over your client opinions? Thank you very much for your answer in advance.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u89	Thank you, Mr. Mohet. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u90	Thank you very much to the Member for the question. Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament. Now it has become a little clearer to me the rather vague question of Commissioner Mojet, who initially asked me what I thought about some of my doubts about some of my actions. At first I didn't understand the questions; now he's made them a little more concrete. I would be very happy if you would do the right thing next time and ask ahead of time what he is going to ask. But I will still try to answer his questions, which are more. From the first day until today, I have tried to act, not only in accordance with my conscience or with a coalition plan in this area adopted by the Government, the new government of the Republic of Slovenia, but also conscientiously and consistently. The fact that there have already been some measures or amendments to the law - in particular, you think about the law on exercisms, the law on school, in the work that talks about external forms of knowledge verification - made me practically forced because of the deadlines ahead of us, and also because of the inefficiencies of the model contained in positive legislation. I have already talked about this in this area, in particular the fact that the existing model of external forms of knowledge verification is not feasible. The following year, almost the entire population should be included in it, not only because of the poor staffing, financial and other potentials of the school system, but also because it does not go together on a hand-to-hand basis, it is not in line with the entry into further education. That would have made it necessary to change the law, which is probably familiar to you, and I don't know which way I repeat it. The model of external forms of knowledge verification is just the way it is. After the first triad, we proposed an end. Not only because of professional arguments - this means that although they are optional, almost the entire population of pupils has been involved in carrying out these external forms of knowledge verification. The results were extremely high in practice for all participants, so some results for the analysis of the school system itself from this point of view did not receive any additional information. The second reason why we have burdened the little ones is that there is virtually no model in Europe. The vast majority of European countries in this model, the external examination of the knowledge of 9-year-olds or 8-year-olds, do not carry out this model. In short, we believe that this is already a good reason to argue that we have burdened the youngest after the first triad of carrying out these tests of knowledge. Look, when you say it's against me, I've seen some names in the media before, especially, but these names aren't professional. These names are some of the close associates of the former minister who have indeed obtained some signatures in support of their origins and positions. However, neither in education nor in other areas can we talk about one profession. The professional views about the same thing are very large, they are very well-founded and consistent. It is very embarrassing to hear that the Minister of Education is taking measures or moves past the profession or even contrary to the point of view of the profession. The same was true of the problem of the elementary school of Bršlín, where it is not about any "Beast Model". What was "Gabr's model" like then? Was my predecessor's model the one with the separate departments we had in his day? So it is not possible to personalise these models, but it is a model proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and there are possible objections to the professional or any public, of course, because we are an open society. I myself have found an optimal model that has resolved the conflict that has arisen in this primary school, and I think it will be evalved, evaluated, and if it does not bring better results than previous practice, the model we have so far, of course, we will abandon it because it is already temporary, and we will find a better solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u91	Thank you, Minister. Does the Member wish to complete the reply? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u92	President, thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, we're talking through each other. I didn't get involved in this professional decision, and it's none of my business to comment on it, but I asked you how you communicate in public. Above all, this was of interest to me, because the harmonisation of legislation and measures for the public concerned is Sisyphus's business for every minister. But I think you have plenty of time left, because there is no big difference between pensioners and Members in this country, because we both do almost nothing together and we still get payment envelopes. Therefore, in view of the government's revenue from the laws it gives to the National Assembly, it seems useful that ministers, if they are not already doing something else, would at least respond a little more to this public. Of course, there may be two cases: the first is, you have a lot of personnel, a lot of professional staff, and probably they advise you on certain things, and you are following this, because you have not been known in school circles or an unknown specialist in the field of didactics or pedagogics. I was not interested in this part, but I asked you because there are doubts in the public about the merits of the solutions. So, I was thinking about the interested public, so, Mr. Minister, I'm asking you a further question: do you mean this attitude towards the public any way to fix it or not? That's all.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u93	Thank you, Mr. Mohet. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u94	Thank you for having an additional answer. Look, we're communicating with the public. From the first week forward, for example, we also have a constant partnership with the education and education union, where we are directly solving all possible disagreements or issues and dilemmas that are on the agenda that have been before and which are also today. I am probably the minister who has visited the largest municipalities and institutions in the Republic of Slovenia so far. With these regular contacts, living contact between the ministry and the field, I will continue in the future. In this way, I also check individual measures. And while you are saying that some parts of the professional public had different views from the government's proposals, I believe that most of the measures that we have taken have not been many so far, because there could not be many because of the short time, they have been very well taken on the ground, in primary schools, wherever I have come. This communication with the public will continue well afterwards. However, there may be a short contact with some of the public, but the fact is that because we are a plural and open society, you can never satisfy all the public with your policies.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u95	Thank you, Minister. Mr Srečko Friend will ask the Minister for Environment and Space, Mr Podobnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u96	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Respectable ministers, colleagues, colleagues! Mr Environment and Space Minister, I would like to ask what is the opinion of the Ministry of Field Affairs regarding the construction of wind power plants in Primorska. We know that there is no appropriate local consensus or that the local community does not fully agree with the so-called grave intervention in the protected area. It belongs to the so-called protected area, both in Natura 2000 and before. The fact is that the projects by the investor, Elektro Primorske, were executed in half. I would like to point out that, as a public institution, Elektro Primorska has picked up most of this land. I ask you, Minister: How can a state-owned public institution be allowed to pick up a protected area where it intends to build wind power plants? If we look at the studies, they show that only 32% of the potential benefits that can be expected in Primorska. In France, where we relied on expert studies, expertise and opinions, this is the 65% benefit of power plants. The effect of the storm on Primorska is not like the constant wind somewhere else. This morning, I spoke to Dr. Rajko Vojkovszky, Mayor of the Municipality of Divac, who claims to me that the dilemmas and conflicts are, because he thinks, in this area, to build wind power plants, within this area in this municipality, very large. Therefore, even though you have been asked many times for different opinions today, I ask you: Even though we do not have properly used water resources in Slovenia, on which we could work such hydropower plants and also build a tourism strategy, we will give priority to some alternative energy or alternative energy use source, which in the first place would also be rather untapped. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u97	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u98	Thank you very much for asking Mr. Ambassador Friend. In any case, he would also be a partial addressee of this issue, a fellow Minister of Mag. A visionary covering the field of energy. In conclusion, in your question, you have mentioned the unused potentials of Slovenian rivers in the field of hydropower potentials, and here only together can we find that one of the major Slovenian construction projects that is actively under way is the construction project on the lower Sava. And Bosniak, Blanca and the others continue at a good pace. Here you have a colleague of Mr Janz who will assure you that this project also has a very good consensus with the local community. As Minister of Environment and Space, I am covering this environmental, spatial part of this major investment and it is taking place successfully. I have to admit, you surprised me in part with your question. Also with your conclusion that the local communities in Primorska are opposed to the installation of wind power plants in their areas. Do you have any specific information that might also be written or accepted by any decision of the congregation council? I don't have all the data. I am aware that he is one of the municipal councils, this is Illyrian Bistrica, along with the mayor in different positions. Of course, these views are not definitive or the procedure is such that the authorities, in this case the Environmental Agency of the Republic of Slovenia, issue an opinion on the environmental consent of the investor. So, under the current nature protection law and some other laws, the process is very complicated before it can start producing any of the wind power plants anywhere in Slovenia. However, I must tell you the principled position, which is in fact the position of all the governments in Slovenia so far. In fact, since its independence Slovenia has been promoting electricity production from renewable energy sources and, among other things, wind energy has taken an important place. The use of renewable energy sources, as well as wind energy in this respect, is promoted or supported by a number of eminent environmental organisations across Europe. It is understandable, however, that under the conditions of the open electricity market, the state is no longer an investor and is not an investor in wind power plants or others. The state does not describe the locations as such, but it is very important that all standards from the point of view of the environment, space, and, of course, from the point of view of the profession are provided under the current procedure. It's a question of the wind potential that you've opened up here. This, of course, is an investor issue. That's not the minister's question. You may be aware of this, as well as other Members and Members, that a recent study of the Wind and Solar Situation in Slovenia has been carried out. A very interesting study that shows where the potential, favourable locations are for building wind power plants in Slovenia. Here, unfortunately, if I may say so, it will be possible to show that such potential locations mainly include locations in southern Primorska, this border between the Mediterranean and the mainland climate, where, for physical and other reasons, there is the most permanent wind. But that's a professional question. It is also important that this study has brought back quality data on the solar conditions in Slovenia, so photovoltaics can also be a new challenge for renewable energy sources in Slovenia. The procedure is clear. Both the investor and the municipality of Ilirska Bistrica complained about the decision of the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the Environment. The Ministry of Environment and Space, by its decision, decided that the first decision of the Agency should be repealed and that the matter should be returned to the administrative authority of the first stage in the re-trial procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u99	Thank you, Minister. The Member of Parliament wishes to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u100	Dear Minister, we didn't get along. I didn't ask you about Volova rib, the Illyrian-Bistrike area, I asked you about Divaco, why build wind power plants in an area protected by Natura 2000. I asked you why to decide and give the opportunity to buy out a public company owned by the State, Elektro Primorska. How did you allow this if there are no building permits or this is a protected area? And last of all, I want to ask you: Why is not this study that you have shown, but another study where the percentage of the use of these wind currents is covered? Compared to France, this is 32%; in France, we have 65% of the benefits. That's what I asked you, Mr. Secretary. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u101	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u102	I forgive myself, then I will try to give you a concrete answer to your question in the second part. As Minister alone, I have not given any consent to any purchase of any of the investors in the municipality of Divac, nor am I aware of the investments in this area in the municipality of Divac. I did not receive this role, also because you did not only mention the municipality of Divac in the question, except there, that you mentioned the respectable Mr. Mayor, I thought your question was aimed at the current location on the Vol's rib, so I apologize. As far as the issue of exploitation is concerned, these are professional topics. First of all, let the investor think about it, because if he succeeds in completing the process of building a wind power plant, then he will have to make economic excuses for his investment. And if he makes a mistake at the location, he'll have consequences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u103	Thank you, Minister Podobnik. Mr Anton Kokalj will ask the question of a letter to the Minister of Justice, Dr. Lovr Šturm. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u104	Thank you very much. It is generally known that the largest backlogs in the courts in the registration proceedings are in the Land Book. The parties have been waiting for a very long time to enter the land book, and this is not only an unreasonable long wait for one of the basic procedures for regulated business in the real estate area, but it is obvious that in the past it was also an arbitrary decision as to who could take precedence in the entry. However, this rate of entry is in some cases linked to certain factors, of which one example would be given. In fact, the mayor of a municipality managed to make an entry into the land book in one day for the agricultural land he bought from a farmer who had been given credit by an agency whose director was the mayor for several years. In addition, he managed to gain the consent of the former government and to bring it to a wally land. This is, for example, just one case on which we can conclude that the circumstances of those who, especially at the District Court in Ljubljana, in the Land Book Department, contribute to a very rapid entry. Even before I gave you this question or after you received the question, I noticed in the Finance magazine that the Ministry had decided to carry out some kind of control at the District Court in Ljubljana. I wonder: How do you assess the current situation in the District Court and if this control, in addition to checking the procedures or speed of proceedings, can also verify the circumstances with which the very fast entries are linked? I think that these circumstances could help to expose some of the problems of the past, perhaps even some exploitation and exploitation of public positions. Second question: Do you think that the informationization of the land book, which I know has been going on for a very long time, has helped in recent times to solve the problem of writing into the land book more quickly or not? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u105	Thank you, Mr. Kokal. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u106	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Thank you also for the question, honourable Member Kokalj. It is true that you have only clarified your question today, but I can still answer it. First of all, the order of the entries. In this regard, I can confirm that the Ministry, in view of the concrete complaint it has received, has requested that the competent court also carry out such a business review for this purpose. And it's done. However, I would like to ask you to return in writing to the Ministry as soon as possible for a concrete role, with specific names that we will not be talking about here today, and then I will complete the role that I have addressed to the higher court in Ljubljana, which exercises this kind of control with your particular case. You can be sure that the control exercised by the court will answer your question raised. But, as I said, I was already informed of such problems. Now, too, with regard to how the informationisation of the land book has helped to resolve significant backlogs. That's the second part of your question you've asked. I should briefly answer this question that information has proved useful and that the first data of this year's studies show that the number of cases resolved has increased significantly in the first three months, since the Court has resolved many more cases in these three months than the Court has received. Of course, we need to look at this data with a certain degree of caution, as it will be necessary to make sure that perhaps the referees are solving simpler matters than the more complex ones. In any event, the standards for the work of land-book referees have increased to 160 cases a month. Employees are included in the Hercules programme and are also doing overtime work. Students' assistance has also been used, which has all proved to be in the faster and better issuance of land books. We can expect that the percentage of information made available today, which is 94%, will also increase this calendar year. However, I must point out that some so-called seals are still unresolved, these are notables in land books, but also that the land book is not always comparable in all respects to the real situation. This will have to be done. In short, last year's end has also ceased to be the simplified form of registration of the floor property. This has led to a great flood of such roles. These applications are largely incomplete and the procedure for supplementing these applications, which, of course, must also be done by the court, takes time. But there's going to be some more time on this, so I'm going to say it belongs to someone who's going to make the case bigger. Finally, let me say that in the District Court in Ljubljana, in comparison with the comparable District Court in Maribor, there is a lower rate. However, this issue will be particularly addressed by the Ministry when it approaches the development of criteria on the rationality, efficiency and productivity of individual courts and tries to incorporate these criteria into the entire system of court financing in the coming years.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u107	Thank you, Minister. The next question will be asked by Mr Marko Pavliha, Minister of Justice. I apologize for the exchange with Mr. Gulic. After asking the question, Mr Marko Pavliha will take over the leadership of the National Assembly. Mr. Mark Pavlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u108	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you all for your understanding, too. One of the modern diseases of many judicial systems is, of course, a judicial backlog, a judicial backlog. And also one of the possible partial recipes is specialized courts or specialised departments or specialised judges. I ask the Minister, first of all: What is your position on the establishment of specialised courts, departments or training of specialised judges? In particular: Have you considered setting up a specialised court in family matters, family law, for example? As we know, it is one of the most important and sensitive areas where, in other words, every decision affects the fate of the youngest and most vulnerable family members: children. It is not surprising, therefore, that in some countries, such specialised courts have arisen in Germany, for example, dealing with the common problem, on the one hand with juvenile, family and sexual crime, and on the other hand with civil justice cases, and at the same time bringing together a number of experts: educators, social workers, lawyers, psychologists, and others. If we believe the arguments that such courts are too expensive for Slovenia, then of course my alternative question is, what about the special departments? One of these has already worked successfully in Ljubljana. I wonder: Do you think about establishing similar departments elsewhere in Slovenia? I would also like to ask: Could it be possible to organise special departments for the execution of unpaid maintenance on the basis of settled family disputes? Is the Ministry of Justice policy in this direction? Finally, since I also mentioned specialised judges, I wonder: Does the Ministry intend to do anything to improve the education and training of such judges? I can give you a specific case. The county court in Cyprus is solely local and truly competent to resolve maritime disputes in our country, and there is not one single specialist in maritime law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u109	Thank you, Mr. Pavlich. Mr. Secretary, Dr. Storm, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u110	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Thank you also for the question to the honourable Member, Dr Mark Pavlich. First, let me say one basic dilemma: Are we putting an end to the judicial backlog by organizing a great specialization within the courts or not? The answer is not simple. This is, of course, recommended when it comes to large courts, which have a large impact, in large countries, such as 15 or 20 times the size of Slovenia. In these cases, I'm sure. This is the case in Germany. In Slovenia, which is small, the answer is not that simple. The great specialisation, in particular the establishment of specialised courts, on the other hand also means greater bureaucracy and thus may reduce the effectiveness of the judicial system as a whole. Therefore, the answer to the question raised is, if I simplify it first, so that the matter must be resolved "cum grano salis". However, the Ministry of Justice supports the specialisation of family matters in the civil field in principle. With regard to specialisation in the civil area of the family, it is necessary to mention a law allowing family departments to be established in the district courts as specialised decision-making departments for all marital disputes and disputes between parents and children. If I say so immediately, the Ministry is not in favour of specialised courts, but it is in favour of the creation of specialised departments, but in those courts which are large enough to transfer such specialisation. We believe that the proper way to carry out that specialisation is to create specialised departments within existing courts, which is already enabling legislation. The establishment of special family courts would be inadequate, both from an organisational point of view and would also result in a much greater burden on budgetary resources than the creation of specific departments. We therefore believe that the creation of departments is a much more rational solution that will achieve the same purpose as the creation of special family courts. However, with regard to the possible integration of civil departments with youth criminal departments, we explain that there are no obstacles to this in terms of the legislation in force. However, it would be necessary to examine the meaning of such a merger, as civil and criminal matters are dealt with on the basis of two completely different procedural rules: the law on justice and the law on criminal proceedings.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u111	Thank you, Minister. Does the Member wish to complete the reply? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u112	Yeah, just for a little while. I wonder, because I am satisfied with the answer, not least, I am more inclined to the departments than the courts: Does the Ministry intend to briefly check what was the main reason that there was no establishment of other departments, other than Ljubljana, in the area of family matters? What does he intend to do in the field of education? It is logical that such departments, because they mean specialisation, also require more specialized knowledge. And the current system is flawed. She's limping.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u113	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u114	Thank you. First of all, I must apologize for not answering the education question before. The Ministry of Education, of course, supports education and will do so, as has been the case with the Justice Education Centre. Thus, the answer to this question is certainly positive. Indeed, it remains somewhat uncertain about the education of maritime law specialists. Here, Slovenia is a little bit in a specific situation and will have to look for special forms of education also abroad. With regard to the establishment of specialised departments of decision-making, it was therefore not difficult in court in Ljubljana because it is a very large court, one of the largest courts in the country. Other courts will take their turn after a study of the establishment of these departments from an economic and economic point of view.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u115	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'm sorry that I came from behind your back in the course of your reply, but I'm supposed to be in charge of the meeting from 5 p.m. on. We continue to ask questions from the Members of Parliament. Mr Dušan Kumer has the floor, which will ask the Minister for Culture a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u116	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The law on RTV has just been passed in the government, which is the end of the civil administration of public RTV and the transition to national or political governance and the management of this house. A fundamental conceptual change is in the way and proposing the election of civil society or representatives of civil society to the Council of the institution of RTV. The proposaler, so the government believes that the public will have more opportunities for their representatives to be present in the RTV world if we Members elect you in this assembly, than it has been so far since they were elected and elected. This is rather a fairy tale as a serious argument. So far, the decades-long practice of this coalition has shown and proved that the government majority in this assembly, which is supposed to elect these representatives to the public first, and above all, a well-educated and disciplined school class, the class of which is the government or its president, the officers and directors, namely those who care for order and discipline in this class, are ministers and secretaries of state. However, the Minister of Public Administration would add that, because of the efficiency of the government's work, there is no one who is not politically and programmely compatible with the coalition contract, but will, of course, be able to do so on the list of proposed candidates. But, of course, this isn't the end of the matter. There are quite a few flowers in the law that point to the superficiality and ignorance of the area. For example, the one where the applicant has difficulty knowing the terminology in force. Since we have the media law, we are no longer talking about public newspapers, as this terminology is repeated in this bill. It also provided interestingly for the prohibition of religious propaganda because it is defined as a paid advertisement, unlike the political one prohibited by the law, except at the time of the electoral campaign, which means that religious propaganda is not allowed only to be paid. It is also interesting that two representatives of religious communities have a seat in the RTV world and are proposed by the President of the State, while all other representatives of civil society, of course, appoint and elect this National Assembly. That's it. So far, the practice has been that government materials in the formal introductory part have cited with the sources reinforced facts and estimates of comparisons with the European Union and the expected consequences. This time, however, the opening is the cathartic personal confession of the writer, in which there are quite a few notorious false truths, instigations and "stupidness", especially the one about the current President of the RTV Council. Minister, I therefore ask: Who is preparing comparative legal analysis and analysis of regulation in other European countries on the basis of which this bill is prepared?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u117	Thank you for asking. Mr. Secretary, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Your Honor! There have been a number of flat-rate, harsh accusations against which I will not answer. But I would like to say about the comparative analyses. Comparative and legal analysis of European radio broadcasting arrangements was prepared in the context of the drafting of the law itself, which was prepared at the Ministry of Culture, which is based or is summarised through studies of the research sector of the National Assembly, which were carried out in 2001. These are comparative reviews entitled Ensuring freedom and political plurality of the media, in particular this one, as well as an overview of ownership relations in the media of Western European and Transit countries. Our proposal is a summary of these studies, which are, of course, available to everyone in the National Assembly and otherwise. If the proposal for a law as a public institution is in line with a statutory law, i.e. in the process of detailed and very precise inter-sectoral coordination, before the approval of this bill by the Government, the proposal for a law was fully in line with all ministries concerned by the law in any way. Therefore, there can be no disagreement, including with regard to the law on the exercise of public interest in the field of culture, which in its 29th Article allows specific cultural law to regulate individual issues by regulating public institutions in the field of culture to be dealt with differently, which has also been taken into account in the preparation of this Radio Television Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u119	Thank you, Dr. Simonita. Does the Member want an additional explanation?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u120	Thank you for your word. I'll try to argue with two more cases. That it is not a happy professional approach to the drafting of this law, but rather a political one, is evidence number one. The monitoring board of broadcasters and liaisons, whose users are not only RTV, is, of course, also other users and so far have had the opportunity to participate in this monitoring committee of broadcasters and other users besides the government and RTV. This now passes to the General Supervisory Committee of the Public Institute, as you say, RTV, which represents 90% of the government or representatives elected by this government majority. This is a mockery of the day-to-day eulogy about the withdrawal of policies from the economy, state-owned enterprises, etc. And another example is possible the third programme, because it is a unique one in the world and in Europe, because the law specifies exactly what will be broadcast by public TV on its third programme: meetings of the National Assembly, the State Council and their working bodies in direct transmission or footage, and in the meantime TV sales. It is therefore one of the clearer provisions and solutions to this proposal of the law, which is finally non-chalantly equivalent to the sale of laundry powders and the sale of politics and politicians, except of course the ministerial assembly, which will continue to operate in secret. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u121	Thank you. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u122	Thank you very much. With regard to the supervisory council, which will now be drawn up as envisaged in the bill, that is all I would say is that there will always be an opposition member. The proposal is well known, as I would say, Prime Minister, that representatives from the opposition are also invited to all the supervisory committees. Thus, the power will be transparent and actually on the face of the city to be familiar with all things and also to influence these decisions. In fact, in the Supervisory Board itself, a high qualification is required for those who are supposed to participate in such a supervisory council, so that I do not think that they would operate transparently, clearly and all in front of them, and I think that this fear can fall away peacefully. As far as the third program is concerned, it's a unique thing. I don't know, all the countries in Europe have, or most, I won't say everything, because I really don't know if all of them are, but at least 15 of them have the opportunity to see the transfers from their parliaments. The fact that the Council of State would also appear to me to be correct, even in these controversyes or in these comments that have been made in recent weeks, has been said that the state world has often been neglected, where there have been quite good debates and round tables or forums where the State Council has offered this place. I think it's going to be the transmissions from the National Assembly or Parliament, if I say the broadest, that it's a quality, that it's not a promotion, that's a promotion, I would say, a policy that's going on here. People have the right to see directly from the highest state body what is happening.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u123	Thank you, Minister. The next question is addressed to the Minister of Finance, who is, as it is said, excusedly absent. I therefore wonder whether Mr Grill nevertheless wishes to ask a question and whether he insists on an oral answer at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u124	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Honorable Council of Ministers, colleagues and colleagues! Despite the fact that the Minister of Finance is not among us today, I expect him to provide us with an answer at the next meeting or in writing to a question relating to the functioning of the tax offices at a time when the Government was led by the Liberal Democracy and President Rop. In particular, the issue concerns a number of entrepreneurs who were subject to inspections by tax inspectors, who had the objective to find some, in quotations, 'badness' for every price, on the basis of which they then charged high penalties with late interest back. Many taxpayers, entrepreneurs have even been forced to shut down because of paying these obligations. However, as we know, the Constitutional Court repealed the provisions of the Tax Procedure Act because it found that these charges were unjustified. As we know, to this day, none of these victims have received unjustifiably paid funds back. It is probably not a coincidence that all those who turned to me in the New City, I believe that there were still many of them in Slovenia, in some way also connected with the Slovenian Democratic Party, in the sense that they offered their guest services against the payment of the Slovenian Democratic Party. One of these injured persons, a few weeks after he signed in support of Barbara Brezigar when she was running, received such an inspection and, like the others, he received a high sentence. My specific question is this: When can all these victims expect the state to pay them back? Earlier, it had been heard by the Prime Minister that there were over 5 billion of these funds. What will the Ministry of Finance do to prevent tax inspectors from committing such irregularities on their own? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Nevertheless, I must ask again whether you insist on an oral answer or are you satisfied with the written answer because you have actually mentioned both options? [[Back-up advertising.]] Thank you very much. Mr Aleš Gulič is next, and I thank him for his kind exchange. He will ask the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u126	Dear Presidents, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, Madam Ministers! Dear Mr Drobnic, my question is about the proposal for a law on changes and additions to the War Cemetery Act. That is where you replace the term of a military person with a term that is probably more appropriate in your opinion, with the term'members of the Slovenian armed forces'; this probably covers a much broader area. The victims of post-war executions are supposed to be victims of revolutionary violence, which is certainly not the same at the formal level and the renaming probably does not bring any new content. I ask you: Are you trying to re-evaluate the role of military formations that worked in Slovenia during World War II, or are you trying to rehabilitate domestics? And the second part of the question: Do you have for the Slovenian armed forces those who have collaborated with the invader and swore and bowed down to Adolf Hitler? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u127	Thank you, Mr. Gulic. Mag. Little man, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u128	I thank the honourable Member, Mr Gulic, for the question raised. With the law, we do not want to change any role of military formations or the facts that have happened, as the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia has already said. Let me begin by saying that in accordance with the law adopted by the previous coalition or the previous government, the German, Italian and Hungarian soldiers have also died or fallen. This is also in line with international standards. The draft War Cemetery Act stipulates that the graves of all military persons who fell in war or died during war due to war events or military or revolutionary violence during and after World War II in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia shall be identified as military graves. Military graves are also the graves of members of foreign armies who fell in war or died during war because of war events or because of war or revolutionary violence during and after World War II in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. That provision is also in accordance with war law and fighting practices as codified in the Hague and Geneva Conventions. According to these conventions, which were also followed by Slovenia, the laws of law and obligations of war law apply not only to the armies but also to militias and voluntary departments that meet the following requirements: that they are under the command of those who are subordinated to them, that they openly bear the mark of recognition, that they bear arms openly and that they lead war operations in accordance with the rules and customs of war. Because, finally, we are also members of this European Union, of course, it is wise and proper to stick to these international standards even more. During World War II, in the Slovenian territory, several armed groups, in addition to the German army, also the Italian army, then the Hungarian army, the NOB and POS forces and the military forces, which defended the population against revolutionary violence, met those requirements. Under the Hague Conventions, the fallen narrators of all these forces have the right to a military grave. As you can see, we don't want to rehabilitate anyone. We align our regulations with international standards and do not intend to redecorate history. We leave this to the historians. According to the previous will of the ruling coalitions and governments, military forces, German and Italian and Hungarian forces have also gained the right to the military grave, as I have already said. That's why I'm wondering what you're implying. Nothing changes. The law also provided a single monument to an unknown hero who would connect all those who fought for their homeland. This is nothing unusual, and this is also the case in European countries. Why is that? In order to overcome the separation between nations and to emphasize what unites us. So that any statesmen who wish to pay attention to our homeland, our independence, will lay down their wreath, and will symbolically give thanks to all or devote themselves to those who have fallen into their homeland. Now, as has already been said, we are in the EU and it is good to respect European standards.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u129	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Does the Member wish to complete the reply? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u130	Mr. Minister, you said you didn't want to change the facts. You have, of course, repeated what Mr Prime Minister said before. That's not what I said. It's a reinterpretation, so to speak, it's something new. It is also about equalizing all those who have collaborated with those who have, of course, helped to celebrate this year's 60th anniversary of victory over Nazism and fascism. That's the basic difference. You say you're not changing anything, so I was wondering why you're changing these terms. Indeed, I said that, of course, the possibility is also that we could rehabilitate the status of patriots. But all right, let's accept that you don't want to. Then, of course, I wonder: Why are you replacing the term of a military person with a member of the Slovenian armed forces, which is not the same, and the victims of postwar executions with the term of the victim of revolutionary violence? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u131	Thank you. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u132	If I followed your sub-menu consistently, then of course I could say that the previous government and the previous ruling coalition have recognised the right of the military grave to German, Italian soldiers, as well as the fighters of the NOB and the partisans, that it was an equalization, as the current law states. So, what is this mistake? There's no such thing. All these military forces that were unfortunately in our territory and caused woe, however, were military forces. Those who fulfil the conditions under this Hague Convention and Geneva are entitled to a military grave and the rest are not. We see nothing in this dispute. But we're talking about the writings about the victims. And the victims as such were victims and we look in this context only for the victims. With regard to these Slovenian military forces or military forces that carried weapons publicly, this is not a specific objective. We can also change the text, there is no particular intention. I think it is time to regulate these things also with European standards without any malicious objectives. This is also an initiative of the Ministry and the government to regulate themselves in this way. I would also like to stress once again this proposal for this monument to an unknown hero, which is no specialty, which is the practice in Europe, to overcome the differences and make Slovenia more connected because of our future generations, and that we will be able to meet only those issues that are of interest to our young people and others and to overcome this historical division. This I think is a great added value in this text of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u133	Thank you. The following is Mr Bogdan Barovic, who will raise a question to the Minister for Environment and Space.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u134	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Secretary! I am sorry that you are alone, that you are not yet a colleague, because the issue is also related to the Ministry of the Economy, but this is another time. You've been with us, you know what hurts. According to the data I have, Slovenia will drown in its own waste in six years. Slovenia has no strategy, how and where with waste. We destroy the good, if not even the best land. When we act by law, we open up regional waste dumps, we want to close existing ones, and on the basis of all legal supplements, based on all regulated documents, based on the approval of funds from cohesion, structural, European popular terms, the funds of this money will not be able to. I call on the government, the real government, ask the Ministry of the Economy. I'm calling the Ministry of the Economy. They say ask the Ministry of Finance. I'm calling the Ministry of Finance, they say, ask the ARR, the Agency for Regional Development. Regional Development Agency, call the Ministry of Finance. The Ministry of Finance says, call the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Economy says, call the government. I also have a colleague from the Municipality of Hrastnik with me, speaking regionally. We can't close what we have. We opened it, we barely opened it, and in five years we will close the landfill, but it is not a problem or a big problem. The country does not have this strategy as to what the waste country will be, is an essential issue. She had guidance from the previous authorities to burn them. And in the municipality of Trbovlje, at the local level, we had disputes at political and economic level, we are all at odds with each other, because this country suggested that it would be good if the waste started to be incinerated somewhere. And it would be good if we could try to burn them in the Thermoelectric Trbovlje also because of the existence of the Thermoelectric Trbovlje. But once again, there is total chaos in the thermal field. There is total chaos in the energy field. We didn't have enough energy last night. We heard how they wanted to open new thermal power plants, and we have it, and we want to keep it, and none of it. Disagreement between the two ministries, total disharmony in this country. Dear Minister, please answer us: Where is the waste? Are we going to pay huge millions of euros to export them or are we going to destroy the best land to accumulate them somewhere and burn them? If we burn them, please tell us: Is the plan where we burn them, when we burn them, and in what way, with all due respect for European environmental legislation, that people will once know where we are?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u135	Thank you for asking. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u136	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr Barovic. When you were so energetically listing various government services and departments, where someone sends someone on a question, you left out the ILO, the Ministry of Environment and Space interestingly. Obviously, I don't know if you missed it or if no one says, call the MOP. Here, however, is an important place where these decisions are made. I've been to work in your places, and I know the situation quite well. But first let me have the formal part of the answer. As Minister of Environment and Space, I advocate the position that we will solve the waste problem in Zasavje in accordance with the operational programme and waste management strategy in the Republic of Slovenia. These are two documents that exist. They were accepted by the government in its previous composition. At each meeting of the National Assembly, I have at least one question, which relates to one document or another. In fact, it is an incorrect assessment that Slovenia does not have any strategy, how and where with waste. We have it, time-determined, very detailed. Slovenian mayors and municipalities know her well. What is true of Zasavje? Together with you, with the mayors, municipal councils and others, we are looking for a solution in the form of a regional landfill and its subordinate locations for separate collection, sorting and treatment of waste. Now answer your question, where as mayor you are very clear and brave. Due to the specific geographical characteristics of this space and the existing loads, in particular SO2 once again there is no provision for thermal treatment of waste in Zasavje. For all the expert opinions and opinions of civil society in solving this problem, we are fully open and prepared to cooperate at the Ministry. In the future, the behaviour of the resource, which I am leading towards solutions that take into account the best techniques and practices in the European Union, will also be addressed in the nearest countries. Last but not least, a good month ago, we organised on our initiative, but also intertwined with others, very receptive international symposia, where examples of good practices, particularly Austrian, were presented on this topic. Your Honor! Here it must be said that the regulation on the manner in which the compulsory public economic service of municipal waste incineration is carried out is in force. This one's valid. Last fall was accepted, last winter. In our view, in addition to municipal waste, it is reasonable and economically thermal to process and exploit their energy potential also for a part of non-communal waste waste for sludge from cleaning plants, hospital waste and other organic waste from the industry, for which thermal treatment is already prescribed for various reasons by specific regulations. I am prepared to present my question in more detail also in writing, in which I would define all the formal definitions in the existing documents governing this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u137	Thank you very much, Mr. Podobnik. Mr Barovic wants to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u138	Thank you. Honestly, this is the first time we've heard that thermal treatment of waste is envisaged, no matter where. Free disputes that have been, in particular, in some local community. Secondly, Mr. Secretary, you know that I have asked about all of Slovenia, as an example I have cited Zasavje. The whole of Slovenia will drown or sink in waste once. Last but not least, you said that I filled it out well, for once there is no thermal treatment of waste in the thermal power plant Trbovlje. I'll remember that. I'm sorry again that there's no minister around. Thank you for the specific answer. Once again, Minister, please, all of Slovenia and all those who are looking for political and other health at the expense of the strategy that you say it is, others say it is not: Which is it, and what is the way and how are we going to do it in Slovenia, and how are we going to tackle too much waste, which is also destroying, among other things, what I agree with you in this policy, water - but now I will be an ecologist, even though I am known as a fighter, as someone who wants the worst - that we will not destroy the land, quality land, agricultural land and water? That's all I'm asking if you can make it clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u139	Thank you. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u140	I'm just going to answer your question for a moment. As I say, I am also prepared to complete my reply in writing. I am aware of the sensitivity of this issue and, last but not least, of the important professional elements of any such issue. But I will repeat my position, which I also defended at the presentation when I was a candidate for Minister. According to now known expert estimates, a maximum of two incinerators would be feasible for Slovenia in terms of its size, quantity and specificities. Time limits are also set in this programme. The financial structure is also a very important dimension. Allow me to state the following information I obtained when I was preparing to answer your question. The total investment costs in the facility for the thermal treatment of mixed municipal waste - if we take the capacity of around 300,000 tonnes per year, this is a high figure - to the landfill of slag and stabilized ash and to the network of transshipment stations for municipal waste, so these costs are estimated at around 26 billion euros for the whole of Slovenia, or around 125 million euros. The cost of the thermal treatment facility itself is estimated at around €23 billion and €110 million. Warehouse 900 million, transshipment stations around 2.1 billion Slovenian tolars. This dimension, too, will be very important in the final decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u141	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr Mikhael Prevc, who will raise the question to the Minister for Culture, has the following word.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u142	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Dear ministers, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! My delegation's question to the Minister for Culture concerns the issue of local and regional radio and television programmes, in particular with regard to the financing of these programmes. In April 2001, the government in its 82nd section of the Media Act established that public Radio Television Slovenia has 3% of its contribution to the operation of local, regional and student radio and television programmes with a status of special importance. At the initiative of the Public Institute of Radiotelevision of Slovenia in September 2004, the Constitutional Court repealed Part 82 of the Media Act. In doing so, local, regional and student radio and television programmes have lost an important source of stable public co-financing with the status of special importance. Although the Constitutional Court has instructed the legislator to resolve this problem by September 2004, this has not happened. With only advertising revenues, these programmes cannot survive, so there is a serious risk that most of the 17 radio and 7 television local, regional and student radio and television programmes will be forced to change the programming structure and also the fact that all broadcasting programmes are of particular importance outside the capital and are an important part of Slovenia's media image and, last but not least, in the concept of the denationalisation strategy, which would have been significantly impoverished by their programme transformations. Therefore, on behalf of the economic interest association of local and regional radio stations in Slovenia and on behalf of the professional association of radio and television stations, I ask: When and how does the government plan to solve this problem?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u143	Thank you for asking. Mr. Secretary, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Mr Member, thank you for the question. And that 3% is a pretty big problem. It is interesting that before 2004, everyone affected could have lived from their work, and it is interesting that in 2004, we know what year it was, was approved on the basis of the December 2003 invitation to tender and then on the basis of the May 2004 invitation to tender, so both tenders were valid, and as many as 773 million were granted, which is very interesting. Indeed, until what the Member of Parliament has said has come to pass. The Constitutional Court granted to the complainant and, from the end of September, ceased to exclude this 3% share of the contribution. The Ministry of Culture is also clearly aware of this and of the systemic solution for co-financing programme content, namely local and regional and student radio and television programmes, which were eligible for 3% of the RTV contribution until the Constitutional Court’s decision to repeal Article 82(2) of the Law on Media. This systemic solution is now under consideration with regard to amendments to the media law. These media changes are likely to introduce a so-called media fund that will provide opportunities for plurality and democracy of the media in the Republic of Slovenia. The Fund is currently envisaged as an institution which, in addition to ensuring plurality and democraticity of generally-informed printed journals and weeks, programme content of radio and television programmes, will also ensure the development of radio and television programmes with the status of a local, regional student or non-profit radio or television programme. The Fund will ensure the realization of public interest in the media field. I believe or hope that this system solution will also be given and that these programmes can be continued. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u145	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Does the Member wish to complete the reply? Thank you very much. There may be a saying here that patience is God's fat, whether we believe it or not, we are only in the middle of the questions that have been sent, half of them are behind us. I would like to take the floor with you, Mr Magi. Milana Cvikla asked the Minister of Finance in the absence if, of course, he wanted to do so.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u146	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Messengers and Members! Despite the absence of the Minister of Finance, however, I will ask a question related to what has not been answered here today. This is: What are the priorities of the government when on Wednesday 13 April it adopted the budget or the 2005 budget balance? The first analyses of publicly available documents from the Ministry of Finance website show that April 13th was an unfortunate day for Slovenian public finances and Slovenian budgetary users. Let me explain why. For the first time, the deliberate deception of the public was followed by a small miracle. Out of a 70 billion hole, there were 20 billion surpluses at one time. This happened only because the minister and the Prime Minister found that, in fact, there is not a 70 billion hole, but that there is more revenue in Slovenian public finances than they said a few weeks before the meeting itself. Secondly, because there is no real savings at the very centre of the rebalancing that you have accepted in the government, as is the case with publicly available documents, but above all the cuts in development projects. Minister Bozic has been cut into the highway programme by 12 billion and we will therefore adopt a highway construction programme this year, but it will need to be re-examined and reduced by at least 6 billion, as the documents say. For the Minister of Education, investments in education decreased by 2 and a half billion at a time when the whole of Europe is committed to investing in knowledge, education as a way of implementing the Lisbon strategy. The Minister of Health was reduced by 2 billion the health investment programme at a time when new equipment, oncological institute, paediatric clinic was finally started to finance the budget fund. Is there any new approach to solving health problems in the background? Finally, all ministers must reduce investments in infrastructure, knowledge, research, equipment on the basis of the general rule. This is a bad approach, and I believe that the ministers of this government will be very hot in these days, when you have to prepare and harmonise limited budget money with challenging objectives by the end of the week. I therefore ask the Minister of Finance, the Prime Minister and the Government in full: Which of the 203 goals set out in the Coalition Treaty will you make the 2005 budget of the Republic of Slovenia a priority? What we read and hear on our websites is clear that none of these goals will be achieved as a priority. Thank you very much. I expect a written response from the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u147	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. The following is Mrs Breda Pečan, who will raise a question to the absent Minister, rightly absent Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, to the extent Mrs Pečanova wishes to do so.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u148	I'm going to ask you a question at the 6th session, so we can get an answer right away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u149	Thank you very much for your time. The following is Mr Marjan Pojbič, who will raise a question to the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u150	Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, The Municipality of Šentilj and the initiative committee have been dealing with the development issue of Trat, which lies in north-eastern Slovenia right next to the Slovenian-Austrian border. In the very place we find quite a few objects of cultural heritage, including the castle Trate. From our sources it is evident that the castle is owned by your Ministry and was until recently managed by the Hrastovec-Trate Institute. The Institute, which cared for the mentally and nervously ill, left the castle with the caregivers last October and since then the castle alone. In the past, the lawns represented the economic driving force of the surrounding areas, as evidence of the active past, Trat is now adorned with abandoned, decomposing and neglected objects. Once well-designed, and above all economically and culturally important, these sites are now just a decaying heritage that, with the help of the competent institutions, could become a developmental option for Trat as well as for the wider environment. In this regard, it should be emphasized that the unemployment rate in the municipalities of Šentilj, Pesnica, Kungota, Council of Ana or Slovenian Gorica is very high in the Styria region compared to other municipalities, and that any further development helps not only to the development of the place and the surrounding area but to the wider Styria region. The current government coalition has set itself a very difficult and, of course, important task of reducing the unreasonable differences between the statistical regions caused by the LDS and the United List government due to the excessive concentration of political power, capital, clientism in the central Slovenian regions, so I think it is very important that the regions such as Styria, which includes this problem or the Šentilj municipality with the site of Trata, should be approached quickly and in such a way that it will give special attention in the future to those poor regions where every job is still important. I am sure that the current government will also be successful in this strategy. We may not care about the future fate of the castle and the place in which it stands, so I ask the Minister, Mr Drobnič, what solutions does he have as a competent ministry ready to solve this problem? Are there already any projects for the use and revitalization of these projects and to what extent will the local community, which has a great interest in the future fate of these facilities, also be invited to participate? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u151	Thank you for asking. Mag. Little man, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u152	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Thank you very much for the question, Member. In 2001, the previous government decided to close, i.e. Trate as institutional protection for mentally affected persons or persons with special needs. This was carried out last year in September or October. It follows from the conclusion that such premises as Trate are not the most appropriate way and place where institutional protection for such persons would be exercised. On this occasion, when they were closing, they made a brochure, but what do they do with it? Thus, the ideas for the settlement of the Smurek Castle were given, in which the representatives of the joint civil initiative on both sides of the border suggested that the castle should be able to carry out cultural and artistic, museum, tourist and hospitality activities and that the contents of this initiative were also informed by representatives in the local community. It was then decided that the management of this institution or of this facility would be in the management of the Hrastovec Institute. The castle currently employs a maintenance man, a fireman, who is responsible for preventing possible damage and also ensures minimal heating and maintenance of premises, while at the same time the Hrastovec Institute, as we are aware, benefits part of these facilities for the purpose of storing equipment, with which it equips its dislocation of the accommodation unit. Somehow we also have the assurance that, in the event of a handover, this facility will be delivered in accordance with all the technical regulations. This facility, as I have already said, is not suitable for institutional protection because it would require too much investment and is less suitable for functionality. However, these premises, this castle, would certainly be suitable for those activities which are probably also more appropriate from a market, cultural and ecological point of view. However, we would also like to include the local community, of course in the country, as well as those interests or initiatives that arise at the border. For we are aware that these capacities could also be used by the inhabitants of the outside border. This may well be a monument with multiple purposes. That is why we will also connect with the Culture Ministry, we are planning a meeting, a joint meeting where all these entities would meet. We will also inform and invite you to do so. So, as has already been said, we are convinced that close cooperation with the neighbouring Republic of Austria should also be ensured in the search for appropriate solutions regarding the future fate of the Trata Castle. We need to understand, and we will also do so, that such an object can be an opportunity for the local community and for the country under appropriate planned conduct, otherwise it can become a burden for the country or the local community and an unreputable monument to the conduct of power. In any case, we will ensure that the building is treated as a good master and will be handed over to the future manager in an appropriate condition.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u153	Thanks for the answer. Would you like a refill? Thank you very much. The next is Dr. Mitja Slavinec, who will ask Dr. Beast, Minister for Education and Sport.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u154	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Mr. Secretary! In the hope of ensuring as soon as possible the best educational conditions for pupils and students, it was agreed last year that certain investments in education would be financed through the leasing system. Some have already started to be implemented, and others have been granted funding in this way, but your government's conclusion is that these are now being stopped. I wonder: What is your position on the decision and what solution will you propose in return for this kind of suspension of lease financing, so that the construction of these buildings begins as soon as possible and with the expected dynamics? This is all the more important because, as a rule, the spatial problem is the most pressing in some places, as in the case of the Lower Economic School in Murska Sobota, for example, students are also exposed to direct threats because, under tight and functionally inappropriate spatial conditions, the school stands on two sides of the city's busiest street, students have to cross this road every day during school.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u155	Thank you. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u156	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Mr Member, thank you very much for the question. Surely you can believe that I, as a sector minister in the field of education and sport, also want the Slovenian state's share in investment, in improving the material conditions of education and education and also in sports, to continue to lift, preserve or even lift, but with certainty I cannot guarantee this. It is known that for the past three years we have also recorded the loss of investment funds because part of these funds were transferred to the wage gap, and this gap was created by poor wage planning. Even so, in Slovenia we will not be able to fully implement our investment plan by 2008, and we will have to open up and redefine some parameters in the course of the year when we will re-adopt the budget for the following year and another year later. It is true that the Slovenian government does not agree with the funding method adopted by the previous government. In particular, this is not because, in this way, funding for long years is further reserved a certain proportion of investment funds, in budgets that have not yet been adopted at all. It is also true that certain investments, such as the sports hall in Nova Gorica, are already being made in Slovenian Konjica, as well as the bilingual school in Lendava, and that it is not possible to withdraw from the signed contracts without further damage to the state budget. For other open issues or investments based on this type of funding, we will try to find a favourable solution in the course of the year. Indeed, Murska Sobota was also involved or was also envisaged for it this funding model, but there is a problem not only in the way of financing but also in obtaining a location permit. For there is no land to build a school, and this was also the main reason that certain procedures, in addition to funding, have not yet been initiated. However, we will also resolve this investment in the framework of all others included in the so-called parallel investment plan, which was in force and anticipated a suspension from 2006 to 2016. It is true, however, that these priorities will also depend on the financial capacity of the Slovenian State in the coming years. In the past, there has been a lot of planning, a lot of volunteering, on the basis of what would be good for us, but not on the basis of our ability to do something. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u157	Thank you. Do you want to complete the answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u158	Thank you so much for saying that again. So the interest of the city’s congregation and the wider surroundings from which students come to this school is certainly that construction begins as soon as possible. And to that end, the city’s congregation also provided land with appropriate conclusions on the city council last year, so that it is possible to build in this chosen location this year. Therefore, I would like to know in particular whether, in accordance with the projected construction dynamics of this year, they will begin or not? I add, however, that there is certainly a possible dilemma about different locations for the school itself, but when we had these different options in mind, we have certainly given priority to building as quickly as possible, as well as to the obligations of the city municipality to the country, this is, to provide land, so we have sought this compromise, which I say is the best solution, but at this point certainly is optimal, that construction can begin as soon as possible and is not delayed due to other bureaucratic things. So, I wonder in particular: Does the ministry see any possibility of such constructions starting this year, as predicted, and as our students finally deserved? As I said before, not only do they have very inappropriate learning conditions but they are also at risk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u159	Dr. Beast.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u160	The need for a new economic high school in Murska Sobota is certainly great. I also understand additional reasons why children are at risk because of the current location, but do not believe that the land is secured, in fact there were some procedural errors in determining the location just before today. However, given the situation they are, we can now say that this year it will not be possible to start a part of this investment, but in this year we will open an investment plan and try to ensure that the construction of this school will start as quickly as possible in Prekmurje.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u161	Thank you very much. The next is Mr Boštjan Zagorac, who will ask the Minister of Transport of Mags a question. Christmas.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u162	Thank you for your word. Respectable present. The established toll system, the real payment and collection of tolls in the Republic of Slovenia, is, in our opinion, unfair and discriminatory because of the combination of so-called closed and open toll stations, since the very implementation of such toll system. A somewhat fairer, correct or less discriminatory system would, in our opinion, be the so-called closed system, because anyone who drives on the road for which the toll is foreseen pays as much as the distance has actually been transported. As I said, the system as we have it today is unfair, because the users of the toll road at the entry and exit station pay the calculated total distance for the intended towed kilometres, whether they have actually transported this distance or not. The cases of such discriminatory, I will say, toll accounting in the Republic of Slovenia is large. One such problem must come from the place or end from which I come; for I am talking about the Šentilj-Pesnica-Maribor motorway, where the inhabitants of Šentilj, Kungota, Pesnica pay 150 tolars for the highway transported about 6.5 km. Mr Minister, as you probably know, I am not the first to draw attention to this problem, and a constitutional initiative to the Constitutional Court has also been given to this problem. The Constitutional Court also ruled, inter alia, that Article 11 of the Law on Public Roads was inconsistent with the Constitution. The National Assembly shall remove the non-compliance within one year. Another time. Article 2 of the Toll Regulation for the use of certain roads is repealed. The revocation shall take effect 30 days after the expiry of the period referred to above. The former government has repeatedly been alerted to this problem. I myself, or through my fellow Members of Parliament at the time, pointed to this problem, but there was no real solution or real perspective. I wonder: Does this government have any intention of such discrimination and discriminatory collection of tolls to eliminate or enable people - and again I will be specific - from this area I have mentioned, in any way it may allow free transport on this 6.5km section of the highway? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u163	Thank you for asking. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u164	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President Pavlich, and of course thank you very much for the question of the Member. So from the beginning of the construction of the first motorway section in the Republic of Slovenia, that is, since 1972, we have been building a toll highway in Slovenia. These are motorways that need to be paid toll. The motorway is a public property owned by the State, which means that the State must make it possible for all to have access to this public good under the same conditions, without discrimination of any kind. In view of the current Slovenian legislation, the constitutional principle of equality and European legislation, the State must also consistently apply the principle of non-discrimination and equality of all users, irrespective of their place of residence or any other difference. In other words, what applies to the locals of one country must apply to all citizens of Slovenia and to all citizens of any European Union. Let me also remind you of the particularly favourable possibility of paying the toll, which has been available since the opening of the first toll road in Slovenia, i.e. since the opening of the Vrhnika - Ljubljana motorway in 1972. It's a monthly toll card. This enables the users of passenger vehicles to have an unlimited number of rides at a certain toll section within the month for which they are paid. Although this card is intended for regular or very frequent users of a highway section, any citizen of the European Union can buy it. Therefore, it is not discriminatory in any way. The price of this monthly map shall be determined in a manner similar to the price of the monthly bus or rail ticket. Users can buy it at any toll station on export from the highway. Finally, I would also like to draw attention to the fact that local residents along the Šentilj - Maribor motorway also have a relatively good parallel road connection, the Šentilj - Maribor regional road, which is why there is no reason at the Ministry for the abolition of toll payments on the Šentilj - Maribor motorway. As I have pointed out many times before, the aim of this government in the field of tolling is identical to that of European transport policy, and this is, by the end of 2008, at the latest, on the whole highway network to introduce an electronic toll system in free circulation. This will also definitively eliminate the difference in the current toll system, under which we have only one motorway leg, i.e. the coastline, the payment by transported kilometres, and on the other motorway legs the so-called open toll system, which is open to the carriage of frontal toll stations. I would also point out that the toll is an important source for the implementation of the national programme for the construction of motorways, as well as the only source for the execution and maintenance of Slovenian motorways, as well as the only source for the payment of the credit liabilities that Dars has contracted with the consent and request of the Republic of Slovenia. However, only a stable toll source assures us that and that the liabilities from the leased to build motorways will only be paid by the actual users of the motorway and that the burden of the leased loans will not fall on public finances and, consequently, on all taxpayers, regardless of whether or not they use motorways. I hope I got the answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u165	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u166	Thank you for saying that again. I also thank you for a fairly precise answer. Finally, we also have a wonderful parallel road from Maribor to Ljubljana by the highway, not only from Šentilj to Maribor. However, I would also like to ask you, when you mentioned, yes, toll stations are, I will say, a very large or the only source of financing for the construction of motorways in the Republic of Slovenia, but, finally, the users of motorways must also offer what the motorway is supposed to offer. I believe that everyone who came in today, and I'm telling you in particular, from the end of Styria, we could have benefited from the highway somewhere between 55 and 60%, and 30% from this beautiful regional side road. When we got to the toll station, they took our full toll there, regardless of the fact that we weren't getting the pleasure of the road the highway was supposed to give us. Interesting: Do you think in such cases? [[If this government thinks or you're specifically acting as the Minister of State]] take action? Now, of course, more than half the highway was useless, in fact, we were driving along a regional road. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u167	Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u168	Thank you so much for asking. It is true that in such cases, there are certain road congestions, especially in the maintenance of highways, where traffic congestions or so - called plugs occur. This has been a lot of talk in the past, and we will certainly have to consider this problem not only when maintenance of motorways occurs, but also when traffic congestion occurs due to traffic accidents and similar situations, but also through transport policy, which has to regulate traffic failure on motorways on the item of the so-called "road pricinga" system, which means differentiated tolls at different times. We are also thinking about these matters, and when there are changes in the toll system, we will also take these differences into account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u169	Thank you, Minister Christmas. The next question will be raised by Mr Ivan Yelen, Minister for Environment and Space.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u170	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ambassadors and Members, distinguished ministers. I am asking a question from the Minister for Environment and Space, Mr Janez Podobnik. In the Republic of Slovenia we witness very frequent floods. The last two major floods have thus caused very, very great damage. On 25.11.1999, the then Minister for the Environment and Space found that at least 73 billion tolars should be allocated for flood safety arrangements. Unfortunately, only 2.58 billion tolars were provided in the recovery budget in 2000. Since then, less and less resources have been allocated to investments in the water economy. In 2003, the water fund raised a total of 4.5 billion tolars, investment and construction of only 956 million tolars. In 2004, it was even worse. In 1901, 1927, 1933, 1954, 1964, 1975, 1990 and 1996 floods were present in Celje, Žalec and Polzel. As a result, citizens of Celje, Žalec and Polzela are even more concerned because they invest so little in rehabilitation and preventive measures. Some of the facilities that were planned in 2000 have not yet been realized. For all the above reasons, Mr Minister, I ask the following questions. Is it possible to expect that money collected from water contributions and concessions will be returned to investment for greater and more effective flood safety? Secondly: What can be done to avoid planning long-term measures for 10 years or more? And third: Can we at least now, in the new government and on your behalf, expect a better involvement of regional expositions with the congregations in the field? I thank you for your answers on my behalf and on behalf of the affected congregations.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u171	Thank you for asking. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u172	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Member, Mr. Yelen. I thank you for that question. The issue of leadership is one of those to whom I would like to pay particular attention as Minister, also because we agree with you that this area has been neglected in recent years, both financially and organisationally. The Slovenian situation is that we are conditioned by a very dense river network, relatively in the short and narrow valleys of flowing rivers and streams, whose character in most cases is windy. And then there has been a settlement and activity over the last decades, and with this settlement, we have taken up the flood plains, we have dried up the valleys for agriculture, all in the belief that man with technical measures can overcome nature. On the other hand, the regulation of rolling parts of streams, as well as in the forest area, has deteriorated. The Water Act has taken the direction of European countries, this is the direction that goes into prevention. He laid the groundwork for banning construction on coastal land, restrictions on endangered areas. At the same time, it has ensured that water protection is one of the priorities of water management, immediate water supply and water protection. The law also provided for water rights funds to be obtained from the water fund. As you can see, Commissioner, the law itself has not yet provided for the implementation of the written provisions. However, this requires proper organisation, which has not happened. In fact, there has been an organisational and substantive paradox. On the basis of the new law, there was no new more modern organisation and the old organisational structure, which had already been exceeded, had ceased. That's why we're in a really difficult situation here. On your particular question, however, the following. Is it possible to expect that the money collected from water contributions and concessions will return to investment for greater and more effective flood security - yes. This can be expected. It is also expected that it will be particularly true, but it is necessary to say that, since the planning and construction has increased in the last two years, especially in the system of rebuilding existing water infrastructure, and state-level local plans have been adopted, which are then the basis for the major investments that await us in this area, if we mention only some: the rehabilitation of the high-water embankments near Muri, the Drava arrangements in the Murglje-Duplek area, and in the final stage of preparation is the Dogoše national location plan - dams in Melje, as well as the resolution of Savinja under Laško and the regulation of Savinja above Celje, as well as arrangements to improve the flood of the southwestern part of Ljubljana. That's what you say, yes. Money collected from concessions must return effectively to more efficient regulation of the water regime. The second question is what can be done to avoid planning long-term measures for 10 years or more. First, much needs to be invested in the ongoing process of preparing and building water infrastructure. I must say that even when I was preparing for your question, in response, I have found that we have a number of long-term procedures for the development of national location plans and very long-term land acquisition and construction permits. Therefore, the construction deadline was delayed for up to two years. There are also many complaints from tenderers in public procurement procedures. Therefore, much more of the profession and principle of a good master will need to be incorporated into the preparation of the documentation itself, so that it will not be a simple practice to appeal to almost any public invitation to tender only those who can complain. The third question is whether we can expect better cooperation of regional expositions with the municipalities on the ground. I'll let you down here in part. The current law states that, in terms of cooperation with local communities through water councils, including local communities, it is necessary to establish water conferences on the Sava, Drava, Mura, Soča and Adriatic rivers. Time has run out, and so far none of these worlds have come to life. I'll do whatever it takes to get them started as soon as possible. Through these councils, municipalities and expositions of water administration will also be able to participate actively in the dialogue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u173	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Ambassador, are you satisfied with the answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u174	Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Let's keep asking questions. It is the turn of Member Cveta Zalokar Orazem, who will ask Dr. Žagaru, Minister without a licence responsible for local self-government and regional policy.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Dear Minister Dr. Ivan Jagar! Negotiations on the drawing-up of European Structural and Cohesion Funds in 2007-2013 are a key priority for Slovenia and the most important tasks in Brussels. Given the importance of this, I believe that the new government does not give full attention to this and does not place this as a top priority. This also shows how bad it is that he does not have the right Minister for European Affairs. For Slovenia, on the one hand, the number of regions or programme areas to which it will be divided is of paramount importance and, on the other hand, the time of adoption of the financial perspective agreement for the period 2007-2013. Following the amended Regulation on statistical development regions submitted by the European Commission to Parliament, Slovenia remains a single programme region. This is very positive if the financial perspective agreements are concluded under the Luxembourg Presidency by the end of June this year, as in this case Slovenia does not statistically exceed 75% of the European Union's gross domestic product average. In this case, we will also be recipients of aid for the richest parts of the Structural Funds. But things can get very complicated, as Slovenia is just below the limit of 74% of the EU average. If negotiations are concluded late, after June 2005, Slovenia will fall out of the funding cycle, even becoming a net payer in the European budget, which would in a sense be a financial disaster. In the absence of a proper government strategy, you, Minister, I ask: Slovenia was given the possibility of further negotiations on the division into several regions by means of assurances or declaration by the Commission in March. Will the negotiations on the division of Slovenia into several regions start before June, or will we wait for the outcome of the negotiations until the end of the Luxembourg Presidency? How will we tactically deal with this very sensitive issue in the coming months, so that the result for Slovenia will be favourable and will receive favourable structural resources from Europe between 2007 and 2013, as well as later?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u177	Thank you for asking. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u178	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Members and honourable Members! Thank you for the question, Madam Member. Well, something you said in your implementation is true. However, some other facts need to be highlighted. The fact is that at this point Slovenia is declared as one region, the so-called cohesion region, in relation to eligibility for funds. Last but not least, this is the result of accession negotiations. And with this regulation, which has, of course, been adopted now at these Correper meetings, in fact, only the results of the accession negotiations have been applied and nothing more. And only in this session, in fact, at this Coreper meeting, we have actually achieved that in some ways the Commission, with this accepted declaration, has indicated the possibility of further discussions to divide Slovenia into several cohesion regions over the next period. I must say, of course, that if we are talking about the financial recovery from these negotiations, then there are many other facts, not only the two you mentioned, even if the negotiations are already concluded under Luxembourg, which depends on how many countries will then be taken into account. The question of Bulgaria, for example, and Romania is also being asked at this time. And that's when these things change. I must, of course, tell you that, as regards negotiations or talks or regionalisation activities at the level of cohesion regions, all these activities run parallel to the negotiations on the next financial perspective. And these processes are ongoing all the time at this point. As I have already mentioned, the outcome of the negotiations depends on a number of factors, not just these, and at the moment we cannot possibly talk about financial recovery, these things will be known when the negotiations are concluded: either under Luxemburg or later. Of course, there are even more of these elements, including the so-called statistical effect that you have been talking about, which, of course, is not just us, but also a number of regions from the old members, so that all these elements also affect the negotiating process itself. Well, as far as thinking about these negotiations is concerned, of course, it is necessary to take a particular look at our regional development, which is probably the essential fact that we are talking about. In the process of negotiation, this is one of our fundamental elements - this fundamental difference in Slovenia's regional development. However, I have to say, of course, about these negotiations, that positions are coordinated across the board and that Slovenia is working hard and very carefully to monitor developments in order to do what is possible to the maximum extent possible for the benefit of all our regions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u179	Thank you, Minister. Complementary response.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u180	Thank you very much for your answer. I still have to say that I am a little concerned because I have not actually heard from the answer what Slovenia is like in strategy and tactics. Maybe if they were secrets, you can tell them that. However, I am particularly concerned that Prime Minister Janez Janša in Brussels said in March that we will wait through negotiations. That was the answer to the journalist's question, and that seems to me to be a very high risk. And the declaration that says that there will be and are open opportunities for change in the regions, I think it just means that the door is only being held. However, that these negotiations have already been more or less difficult and long-term in the past, it is clear. And in this sense, it seems to me that it is a big problem, because it will not be a simple fact, and in this sense it seems to me that it would be good for the Slovenian public to tell what the framework strategy is, because with this answer, the Prime Minister, that we will wait by negotiation, but it seemed to me in some way a great risk, which I hope the government is also aware that it has taken on its shoulders. I hope that he actually has a complete strategy and strategy for how to make more profitable gains. Of course, we can only see that later. It is not only the financial period 2007-2013, but it is also a later financial period, where we definitely lose every possibility with a single region. Here are some options in the first period in the case of a single region. So I do not think it is good to wait, no matter when the negotiations are concluded, either the Luxembourg period or not.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u181	Thank you. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u182	Thanks again for saying that. I can tell you that all the necessary activities are taking place across the street. With regard to tactics, as you said, whether the strategy - of course, we are also coordinating it in some way through the working group that is called for it. You can be sure that we are very careful to monitor all the developments that are also taking place in relation to the negotiations at this time, and I can say once again that we will do our best and that we will do everything possible to ensure that Slovenia is as successful as possible from these negotiations. Of course, we will see the result when negotiations on the next financial perspective are concluded. I would like to point out once again that in this case we are also talking about regional development and we probably all want Slovenia to be adequately developed, and this is also the goal of all these activities, which are linked to the next financial perspective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u183	Thank you. I'd like to invite Madam Ambassador Mag. Majdo Potrato to ask the Minister for Education and Sport.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u184	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear ministers, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The statements made by the Minister for Education and Sport and its co-workers, published in public media, showed that the gap between the Ministry's announced entry preferences and the wishes of young people was considerable. According to the published data, on the one hand there is quite a free entry point and on the other hand the need for entry restrictions is demonstrated. It is hard to believe, however, that those who will not be able to enroll in the selected high school will be reoriented into a programme that will bring them lower education and narrow down the chances of continuing their studies. Due to the restructuring of the economy, it is not possible to talk about reliable employment opportunities in all environments. You yourself, Mr Minister, spoke of the asymmetric development of our secondary education and called it the "crisis of high school" and marked its abolition as one of the fundamental reforms of your mandate. There will certainly be a need for specific measures to encourage entry into professional programmes, while at the same time, from environments where they do not have high school programmes, there are clearly expressed desires for new departments closer to home. There they see their development opportunity in the new high school departments, as a percentage is included in the high school programmes under the national average. Of course, it does not show a lack of desire for new professional programs, for example, I know about the secondary transport school in Maribor as such, but also probably where else they could be found. The new programmes are sometimes linked to new or already planned investments, which show that they will not be launched at the scheduled time, some have stopped and some plans such as public publications are slightly different. That is why I ask you, Mr. Minister, "How will the guidelines presented by the admission policies affect the establishment of a secondary school network in the country and what are the options for opening new vocational programmes and new high school departments? How does the ministry plan to regulate the spatial issue of Maribor's secondary schools and the possible opening of high school departments in Šentjur? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u185	Thank you for asking. Mr. Secretary, Dr. Beast.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u186	Thank you very much for the question. The fact is that this year, the entry until 30 March, when the deadline for the transfer of applications was reached, almost 23,000 students were registered in high school, that the space was almost 27,000 free cities, that unfortunately this year more than 600 children were enrolled in secondary schools, which is also indicative of the demographic problems faced by Slovenian society. So, a few thousand more free cities, but not all will be used, as you yourself have found, precisely because the desires for admission to high school programs, especially in some areas of Slovenia, are too large, greater than the possibilities for opening new departments and understanding new programmes. On the basis of these wishes last week, we opened up an additional 261 places for general high school programmes, 280 places for medium professional programmes, so that we have eliminated this asymmetry between our wishes and options slightly, this is not a proportionality. However, the fact is that the students will continue to find their proper place, as has always been the case, and will also be enrolled in secondary school programmes. Despite the fact that I wanted this year's attack on high school general programmes to be slightly lower than in previous years, it was precisely because it had already exceeded a normal border in some regions, although, of course, there is a legitimate question as to where is the normal limit for entry into general programmes today. In some regions already over 60%, in Ljubljana it is also close to 45%, which is extremely large. It's a good thing that we recorded an increased entry on the professional board this year, but for a smaller percentage, but that's fine as well. It would be difficult to talk about a general entry policy of the new ministry because there is no strategy worked out. Otherwise, we can say that we have clearly expressed our desire for students to become more engrossed in science and technology at different levels. However, apparently this appeal by the Ministry did not go well, so parents followed some trends in previous years and enrolled children, such as children, mainly in general orientations. Fill in how this will affect the new programs now. Before we opened these new departments, we placed new departments, both in all areas, including vocational education, we identified not only the needs and wishes of parents as close as possible - because this is not and cannot be decisive criteria for the deployment of new departments - but also the entry and needs of the local environment as well as environmental support. The same applies to new programmes. The programme must be verified and adopted in the environment, in the economy, to show some perspective, not just professional justification, and only then can we introduce new curricula into secondary school space. I am confident that this offer of new programmes will be even better in the future once we introduce a new way of managing and financing secondary education. This seems important to me because later we will be able to combine different programs more easily with a smaller number of enrolled students. This is very important, but something needs to be known that opening up just as new departments in the vicinity of houses and small towns or cities - of course comes into account if there are opportunities for this, but not at the expense of a network of schools [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Opening a school in a place can seriously endanger the school system in another place, the case is the Schentjur you mentioned. [[...]] If we opened up a high school department there, we would seriously jeopardize the implementation of programmes in Celje and in the surrounding area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u187	Thank you. Madam Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u188	Thank you for what you said to me, because the core of the question was on the school network. I've been through the data, both of you have over-recorded cell high school. We are also talking about the polycentric development of Slovenia and I think that the Kozyan area is good if it sees its perspective in raising the educational level of its population. But what I was asking was a school network. I would like to see that these predictions that you have made in public reveal how the network of schools in Slovenia will be distributed, so I wondered about the network in the country, not just in the individual local environment. For what is understood from the individual local environment is not always in a way that takes into account established tradition. I'm thinking about everything that goes wrong around high school. It is known that denationalisation applications for land and property in nature remain, although the decision was previously different and although the secondary agricultural school has been promised to obtain replacement construction in this particular environment, where the properties are, it is now heard that the school is to move to Ptuj. The secondary shopping school, which hosts rented premises, has to broadcast rooms to the secondary guest school. For example, investment in second grade has been stopped. There are only three cases in the Maribor high school story that she could tell you, and so the other question was raised. I'll thank you for your answer if I get it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u189	Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u190	Thank you very much. I would like to point out once again that the networks of secondary schools do not go further without some thorough analysis so that the opening of one programme in a place does not endanger the existing network in the neighborhood or the environment. But there is no clear answer to another part of the question. I don't even know how to move to Ptuj High Farm School, and they don't count. The secondary agricultural school stays close to where it is now. Of course, as long as we spin until we have a complicated hat in which we can come up with a solution to the denationalisation claims that are above us and which we must, otherwise, continue to burden this country financially in the long term. It is true that the former authorities had or have adhered to some policy not to return in nature, thus blocking denationalisation procedures, that the policy strategy, the new government's strategy in this area, in the area of denationalisation is different. I am sure that we could - and this school also has an interest that this circle spins as soon as possible, that we will also get a problem at the third grade in Maribor and that we will not just solve the issue of the location of the secondary agricultural school, which I once again say will not be relocated from Maribor. But I would also like to see this ten-year desire of the second school in Maribor really come true as soon as possible. And we seriously expect to include this investment very soon among the priorities, such as the future investment plan in education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u191	Thank you very much. The following two questions are addressed to the Minister for the Economy of Magi. Andrei Vissiak. First of all, I ask Mr Štebet whether he wants to ask a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u192	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I would still ask the question, because I would like to somehow explain what I actually wanted to know. This afternoon, I received a written reply from the Minister. I wanted to know whether, in the view of the Ministry of Economy, the Directive on Computerly Supported Technical Innovation or the Patenting of Software is clear and unequivocal in order to understand from the Articles of this Directive that software in any form cannot be patented under this Directive. The previous government and, in fact, all governments have agreed on such a directive, but there are many computer experts, and we may also be one who does not understand all the legal terms in this Directive and we are not entirely convinced that the directive, once adopted, will in fact prevent the patenting of software. Also, if this software is part of a patent or technical device, innovation, invention, which can be patented and this invention, the technical device also contains a computer or computer program. The Minister's response is that the directive clearly states that this is not possible. We would like to know or receive an additional reply in which the Ministry should nevertheless indicate the advantages and disadvantages and risks of adopting the proposed directive proposed by the European Commission, which is currently being read in a second reading in the European Parliament. However, many amendments or amendments to this Directive have already been tabled. Some of them have complemented our proposals, but they are going this way to make the directive really clear to everyone, in the sense that it is not possible to patent software in Europe. I would therefore like to receive an additional reply, even if the directive is still not clear: What amendments that are in play for second reading are those that make this directive more clear and more unequivocal in terms of the inability to patent software? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u193	Thank you very much. I also ask Mr Gantar whether he wants to ask the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u194	Of course, Mr. Vice President. I would like to ask the Minister present a question and I would also like to get an answer, although when the answer is given, it will probably be too late, but better late than never. Oh, my God. I'm asking the visionary the following question. The RS government - because I have to read now, officially. At its meeting on 12 February, the RS Government adopted a decision calling on the Telekom Slovenije administration to request a call from the Telekom Slovenije Assembly to decide, following a decision by the Government, to recall the current members of the Supervisory Board and to appoint new members of the Supervisory Board representing capital, as well as to change the status of Telekom Slovenije d.d. I ask the Minister and ask for an explanation: Why is it that the government is in such a hurry to appoint new members of the Supervisory Board representing capital? Can't he wait for the regular Telekom Slovenije Assembly, which is usually the end of June each year? And why does he have to hurry like that? At the same time, because I am amazed at the names that are named on the Supervisory Board of Telekom Slovenije, I ask politely for the Minister's explanation: What criteria did the Government take into account in the proposal of the new members of the Supervisory Board? Thank you very much. If I may further say - I still have time - if Mr Stabe asked me a question around the directive, I would make it clear to him that this directive is not actually possible [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u195	Thank you very much. The following is Mr Samo Bevk, who will raise a question to the Minister for Culture.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u196	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! I ask the Minister of Culture, Dr Vask Simoniti, whether they are considering drafting a law at the Ministry of Culture to ensure a prescribed proportion of the resources from the budget of the State or municipalities, which would be intended for artistic equipment for the new construction of public buildings or for the renovation of buildings that already have the status of cultural monuments. The adoption of this law would certainly increase the representativeness of public buildings, highlight the modern cultural identity of Slovenian space, support the authors of visual arts, especially from the territory of Slovenia and the world Slovenian cultural space, and influence the regulation of the market for services of visual arts in the Republic of Slovenia. With the artistic equipment of public buildings, I refer to the installation of services of visual arts in the building, the building and the surrounding building. Services of all types of contemporary authors' art would be taken into account by the selection of investors, architects, the idea plan of the building and selected distinguished experts with a public invitation or direct order. In different ways in the world, they promote the art equipment of public buildings, even legally prescribed in some countries, so I ask the Minister of Culture: Will this also encourage this kind of creativity in our country? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u197	Thank you. We give the Minister our word.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u198	Thank you very much. Thank you so much for asking. I assume that it is the Member's interest to consider in Slovenia the introduction of a similar law as they know it, as he himself said, already in some other countries, for example, in neighbouring Italy, which takes into account 2% of the share in any investment in the construction of public buildings for example art equipment. Italy has indeed decided to promote investment in culture in a way that is certainly good, but it is not logical to do so in general everywhere in Europe. The European Community countries have different forms and mechanisms to encourage individuals and businesses to contribute to their incomes, i.e. to culture. To a large extent, they achieve this through a specific tax policy. If we are talking about comparisons with other countries, it may be good to point out that the general level of culture and consciousness among individuals is one that often decides on what someone will give a part of his income, what he will devote to, what he will value as a real value to himself and the culture that belongs to him. These requirements have already been made in the past period. For example, the association of associations of Slovenian artists has for years drawn attention to problems or requirements in this regard. The Ministry of Culture entered into its work programme for 2005 to draft a law on the promotion of investment in culture. The law is expected to go to the end of the year, hopefully in government treatment and in this context the Ministry of Culture will examine and, if possible, propose a solution to take into account the quality, design, regulation and equipment aspects of public contracts relating to the construction and regulation of public buildings and other buildings. This will therefore contribute to the development of creativity, culture and, of course, the general quality of the living environment. I cannot say at this point, if this actually happens, I personally support such a proposal, and I hope that in the proposal, as I said, at the end of the year, this will be incorporated into this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u199	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Can we move on? The following is Mr Martin Mikolič, who will ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Excuse me, Minister for Health.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u200	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The problem of cardiovascular disease has been present in Slovenia for many years. Experts in this field point to insufficient capacity in terms of organisational and financial coverage. The epidemiological picture has long been clear about the fact that the biggest disease is in the field of cardiovascular disease, namely 45%, and the mortality due to cardiovascular causes is in the first place, about 39%. Mr. Minister, I ask you: Is there adequate financial, human, equipment and spatial capacity distributed within health care according to the epidemiological situation? How much funding is allocated in absolute terms in our country for this area, and what is the situation compared to the European Union in relation to gross domestic product? Thirdly: Is the expansion of activities to other hospitals or has the Ministry of Health already made a network for cardiovascular diseases, since there has been a long history of major efforts to spread activities by the General Hospital of Celje and Nova Gorica? First of all, I'm interested in the wishes of Celje General Hospital. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u201	Thank you. Dr. Bruchan.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u202	Thank you so much for asking. This is a problem that we have been dealing with in Slovenia for a long time in order to solve it successfully. I must say that quite a few attempts have already been made in this direction, and some of the results in this area are showing. On the basis of all these experiments over the last ten years, I can say that it has moved mainly on the list of open-heart operations, while on the other hand the number of diagnostic interventions for these operations has increased significantly. Here I see the biggest problem at this point, although even the reduction in the number of people waiting for surgery seems to me only a partial success, because this happened on the basis of a review of the list and some were excluded from the list, which were not necessary for such an intervention anymore. However, there has been an increase in the number of both interventions, so to speak, both diagnostic and therapeutic. As for the question of whether financial and other capacities are specifically distributed within health care according to the epidemiological situation, I do not think they are. In 2000, we proposed a pretty good network in this area of health. In fact, there was no longer time for this network to be realized. During the next four years, there was no substantial new activity for the network itself, except for the opening of the hospital department in Izola, where a private company started doing these operations. However, as far as the network is concerned, unfortunately at this time there was nothing essential to be done. Taking into account the guidelines proposed in 2000, and still in fact still in force and trying to implement them now, there could be a significant improvement in the treatment of these diseases. I must say that at that time the talks were actually just two centres for Slovenia, which could also do this work in a normal situation and with full support. From that time until today, however, a lot has changed, so I should reply that we currently anticipate the actual extension of the diagnostic work to four centres in Slovenia. Here too Celje and Nova Gorica were thinking, and we have talked about this with both hospitals. This does not mean that these two hospitals will simultaneously open up cardiovascular centres, as surgery is completely impossible or probably pointless. Centres that will deal with cardiovascular surgery or open-heart surgery will still be in Ljubljana and Maribor. For the time being, I do not think there is any serious need for us to either stop our work or disable our work in this center in Isola, which is currently doing this business. Our goal, of course, is to organise operations in hospitals that I previously appointed, this is said in Ljubljana and Maribor. There are opportunities for this, but it is only necessary to make use of them, especially human resources, and also spatial ones, which so far have been the biggest problem for the extension of this activity in Ljubljana and Maribor, especially because the financial resources have been spent on programmes, not in fact for the possible implementation of this programme. Then, even at times, there was money left in this area. It's a half past history, I'd say, period of the last four years. I hope and I'm sure this won't happen to us at this time. Our program covers, as I said, in the field of diagnostics four centres, in the field of therapy two centers, plus this center, which I have already specifically talked about, and this is Izola. However, as regards the second question, how much funding is absolutely earmarked for this [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] the purposes in our country for this area, but in the short time I had at my disposal to prepare this response, it was not possible to speak from this data now. I would, if you would be satisfied with this, send this information in writing or perhaps respond to a future session of Parliament. However, the data I have are talking about the implementation of programmes, which have recently been significantly increased for this area, especially in the field of cardiovascular diagnostics.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u203	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Ambassador, are you satisfied with this offer? Thank you. He is also absent and justified by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, but I ask Mrs Shirca whether she wants to ask a question. Yeah.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u204	Thank you very much. I hope that, at the next meeting, I will be present to answer a question that touches on the review of history, as it is happening, not only in Slovenia, but also at the European level, because in the European Parliament these days, in Strasbourg, the right-wing political group has advocated a debate on the so-called silence of the forgotten and denied history, of foyers, of genocide or ethnic cleansing of the Italians in the past century. The European Parliament of the National Alliance of Kristina Muscardini is trying to restore or re-write history and outcome II in this way. World War II. He also asks questions and asks questions about the 1947 peace treaty. It compares foyers with massacres in the Katin Forest in Poland and talks about the protagonists of communism and crime, i.e. that the Italian nation was a collective victim of the barbaric policies of Slavs, Slavinian neighbouring countries. It is certainly a broader political campaign, which reached its peak with the politically motivated film Heart in the Breed months ago and which is still actively continuing. The closer we get to celebrating the 60th anniversary of victory over fascism, the stronger it is. I ask Mr Rupl: How does the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or the Government respond to such views, how does it try to remedy them, how do they enforce the truth about the victory over fascism, and how does such a fabrication of history act? Is it also in favour of the security of our historical memory or just the current situation within the OSCE? How does it ensure the availability of literature that interprets history according to objective facts? Did she trigger any dispatches, or did she motivate any advice? Is it clear that such questions, unanswered questions and unresponsive statements have a major impact not only on Slovenia but also on its reputation in the European Council? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u205	Thank you for asking. The absent Minister of Finance is also justified. I ask Mr Germić if he wants to ask a question?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u206	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. At the 1st meeting of the Committee of the National Labour, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons, on the basis of amendments to the legislation in the area of the previous mandate, and in particular on the basis of the findings of the Court of Auditors on the use of the Foundation funds in 2001 and 2002, we adopted amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure on the criteria and conditions for the use of funds of the Foundation for the financing of disabled and humanitarian organisations in the Republic of Slovenia and amending and supplementing the rules of the Foundation for the financing of the disabled and humanitarian organizations of the Republic of Slovenia. At its 2nd regular meeting on 14.1.2005, the National Assembly adopted amendments to the Rules and Rules. Of course, during the discussion both on the Committee and here at the meeting of the National Assembly, there was a red thread discussion related to ensuring transparency and a more balanced allocation of funds for disabled and humanitarian organisations under FIHA. The Committee therefore agreed at the already mentioned meeting that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia should prepare and submit to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia as soon as possible for the consideration and adoption of a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the property transformation of Lottery of Slovenia. In support of this decision, one of the findings of the Court of Auditors on the use of funds from the Foundation in 2001 is that of 2002 which shows that 25 organisations, whose representatives are members of the Foundation's Council, spent 89% of all funds and the other 31% of the organisations spent 11% of all funds. On the basis of this, I have sent a written initiative on 16.3. this year on the preparation of a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the property transformation of Latvia to Minister Janez Drobnič, who forwarded my initiative to the Minister of Finance for consideration. I therefore ask: Is the Ministry of Finance preparing a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the property transformation of Lottery of Slovenia? If, in which direction and when does it intend to submit it to the parliamentary procedure? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u207	Thank you, too. Since the two Members have decided to raise questions only in the presence of ministers at the next meeting, we have only six questions ahead of us. I invite Mr Petk to ask the Minister for Environment and Space a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u208	Thank you, Chairman. A nice welcome to the rest of the ministers! I am addressing to Minister Podobnik the issue concerning the Housing Fund. He is aware that the Republic Housing Fund is co-financing projects or housing financing and that the last tender was published on 15 October last year. In this 2 billion - and - a - half - billion - call, there are two conditions that I find discriminatory. The Housing Fund devotes this investment, these resources to municipalities of housing funds, as well as to non-profit organisations, by requiring a differentiated price for Ljubljana, for the surroundings of Ljubljana and for the rest of Slovenia, in the way that the price in Ljubljana is 750 euros, in the surrounding municipalities 700 euros and in the other municipalities and around 650 euros. And this for the price of GOID, the so-called construction-turning-installation part, which means that the price does not include land, municipal equipment, i.e. these market conditions that rotate the price most. Compared to the purchase price at which the housing fund buys apartments, where it is, for example, the price of EUR 1,350 for Ljubljana, means that every inhabitant of these less developed areas literally donates EUR 100 per square metre of apartment in Ljubljana. It seems to me, Minister, that you will have to work hard to justify such a differentiated maximum price for construction-turn-installation works. The second condition, which is so strange, is the condition of the risk of investment and the risk of non-profit housing, in which, in fact, municipalities, funds or other institutions take over all costs incurred before construction takes place at all. The fund only comes to the opening of tenders and nowhere else, so it does not invest any funds. In this case, it even claims that if the apartments are not occupied, that is, its dwellings are occupied for 30 days from then the city’s municipality, fund or other financier will take over the financing or obligation to pay the rent. A completely incomprehensible requirement, which is also linked to taxpayer money such as the money of the fund. That is why I ask you, Mr Minister: How do you comment on such discriminatory conditions of co-investment? Do you think they might even be right? How will you propose, in accordance with your competences or responsibilities under the supervision of the Housing Fund, to improve the provision of non-profit dwellings and their balance? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u209	Thank you. Mr. Minister Podobnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u210	Thank you very much. Mr Petek considers that the call for a programme to promote the provision of non-profit rentals is not only the last one, but also the previous one, which contained at least two elements of discrimination. First of all, I must say that I am not a lawyer for those who have written such elements in the invitation to tender. But I'll try to comment or answer your question anyway. First of all: What could be the professional reasons for the differentiation of the highest price for construction - craft - investment works? One argument could be that the review of current prices of land, municipal equipment and construction in Slovenia, which was prepared, shows that the price varies widely between elements and locations and that the price reduction in this proposal is proportional to the average known prices at different locations. In 2001, according to these data I received, it was in Ljubljana and around this price that the most deviated from the national average and that the prices achieved were aligned with other areas in Slovenia. I also have information that can be surprising, although Slovenia is in a formal legal sense a single market, prices in some sectors, including construction, vary across different regions of Slovenia. I hope that's the kind of information you keep. If this information is correct, then we must acknowledge together that here it may be part of the argument for such differentiation. We could then even talk in some sense about local markets where a specific price is created according to local conditions of supply and demand. Again in construction, Ljubljana comes out, where it is not only the most expensive land, but also the construction, crafts and other services on which it is discussed. Therefore, there could be an argument here that those who have established the strategy in the Housing Fund have established this different starting point. However, I must tell you that I am of the opinion that such a solution can be controversial. That is why I believe, and also as President of the Supervisory Board of the Housing Fund, I will propose that this year's simple fund assess the situation and propose renewed, more realistic price anchors, if we can call them so that they can also be differentiated by location, and thus establish an appropriate new pricing strategy. I also believe, as Minister, that investment in housing, regardless of co-investment with municipalities, should be actively managed by the Housing Fund, as active public procurement management is a prerequisite for determining, achieving lower prices and national prices for preparatory, construction and other works. The experience we have now when investments are being conducted in a diversified manner, mostly by hired engineers, is not appropriate. This is not a public sector partnership between the state and the municipality. And now the second question: Why does the congregation that participates in co-investment with the housing fund have to cover rents for housing owned by the housing fund if this is empty? But here I firmly believe that the housing fund did the right thing. First of all, because the co-investment of the fund in the investments with which the municipalities provide rental apartments is mainly aid and support to the municipalities, the responsibility for the size of the dwellings that citizens need has been regulated by the municipality. Secondly, municipalities and other entities responsible for the provision of rental apartments by the municipality shall also carry out tendering. Thirdly, the municipality is the only one with relevant information on the need for renting apartments at the local level. As a proposal for a housing project, therefore, it is also responsible for the rational use of public money, and in this case also public money. It is said that it is in the interest of the congregation and that the congregation is responsible for the giving up of built dwellings. The fund is not a profitable institution, so it cannot be the interest of the congregation, not of the state, to build apartments that would remain empty. In this case, I do not consider that this element in the invitation to tender was discriminatory. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u211	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Member of Complementary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u212	Minister, if the second part of the answer even partially satisfies me, the first part certainly doesn't. I am a builder myself, the names of a 30-year practice in this area and you cannot convince me that a single small Slovenian market in various ways buys bricks, concrete, iron, mortars, craftsmen and so on. We are in Slovenia, this single market must apply to all Slovenia. Ljubljana is no exception to this and therefore we cannot agree that because of its position, someone has a different starting price. This should be judged by the experts. However, I recommend that you, as the Ministry, pay attention to this. I'd even suggest this. It seems to me that in the apartment fund there are officials who are too confident that Ljubljana is the center of everything and I would like to remind you of something you have defended yourself. You know that map. This map is on your website, talking about the decentralisation of Slovenia. In the needs of the electoral campaign at the time, you write about how you will, of course, transfer all institutions to individual places. You wrote for the housing fund, this is your document to transfer it to Domžale. I recommend that you realize this promise to decentralise at least one part of these possibilities that you have as a minister in the government and therefore transfer them to an environment that you think is appropriate, namely the headquarters of the Housing Fund, but not just a seat to change your mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u213	Thank you very much. With regard to your supplementary question, I am pleased that at the second point, we have almost drawn closer to each other as regards our dealings with congregations and built dwellings by the Housing Fund. As for the first one, I appreciate your opinion, you are also an expert in this area, but as I said, I have said that the paradox, by the parties who know the Slovenian construction market, can be this information. I'm just giving it a chance here. The data say that although Slovenia is in a formal sense a single market, and the price in some sectors, and here is mentioned construction, especially of course services, not the price of bricks, that there will be no misunderstanding, but we know what we are talking about - construction-turn-installation works, unfortunately, are not the same in all parts of Slovenia. In doing so, I do not justify the decision of those who have created decisions of the Housing Fund regarding this anchor. If you understand me correctly, it is my intention that I simply request an analysis of this area, this system, and that these price anchors change. And one more thing is important: the active role of the housing fund when it enters is investment with municipalities, if we want to lower the price of dwellings in the end. Finally, the good political challenge you gave me. Here I'll give you a classic political answer. I would like the text and the picture you showed me, the map, to be fully recorded in the coalition contract. It was not entirely, in part, possible for us, including with respectable colleagues in the coalition, to enter into a coalition agreement to work towards decentralisation. Also by transferring some state institutions to different areas and cities across Slovenia. This is the direction of the government. I hope that it will soon have a concrete form so that at least one of the state institutions in it will live somewhere outside Ljubljana. Addictive.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u214	Thank you. The next question is, Mr Ciril Testen will put it to the Minister of Public Administration.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u215	Dear Presidents, Members and Members of Parliament, distinguished Ministers! There are currently almost more ministers than Members in the Chamber, but I will still ask the question. For several months now, the news has been causing unrest in the public sector, presented in Slovenian media by the Minister of Public Administration, Dr. Gregor Virant. According to his proposal, the number of administrative units in Slovenia is expected to decrease from 58 to 14. In the upper Soča valley, and I believe that even in some other places in Slovenia, we are concerned about the announced changes. I do not know if the Minister is aware of what this means specifically for our area and I reiterate that we are not the only dispersed and remote area in Slovenia. Let me present some facts. The distance between Novo Gorica, where the proposed seat of the administrative unit, and some of the places in the upper Suča are very large, up to Tolmin is 40 kilometers, up to Kobarid 55, up to Bovec 80, up to Trenta more than 100. Public transport is poorly organised because low demand makes it unprofitable, and it is also very expensive and difficult for low-income people to reach. Bovec - Nova Gorica is one way bus ticket about 2,000 SIT. By abolishing the headquarters of the administrative unit in Tolmin and also in similar centres in Slovenia, we will lose quite a few opportunities for employment, especially young educated people, which will be an additional reason for moving to larger centres. While the Minister links the new division of administrative units with the introduction of electronic administrations, he points out that these are areas where electronic regulation of administrative matters is not realistic because an average older generation lives here, and also because of such government moves, this percentage will be even higher for the benefit of the elderly. Since I have already mentioned Tolmin and the Sočko Valley, I would also like to remind you that a new building of the administrative unit will be dedicated to Tolmin in May, and that, by moving the administrative unit headquarters, will be substantively questionable. Question: "What status will the current Tolmin administrative unit have in the future when the changes take effect?" What will this change mean for users? How many workers are going to lose their jobs, and how many are going to be forced to drive to Nova Gorica every day? What jobs will they occupy? What are the chances of new jobs? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u216	Thank you. Dr. Virant.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u217	Thank you so much for asking. A nice greeting, to the most persistent Members and Members of Parliament. We plan to reorganise administrative units in order to make the work of administrative units more coordinated in order to achieve rationalisation both in the construction of human and material resources and in order to be more flexible in the distribution of both people and the files or matters they solve. The restructuring plan envisages the establishment of 14 administrative units with 44 positions from today's 58 administrative units, with particular emphasis being placed on the focus of management in these 14 administrative units, i.e. management and directing tasks - financial, accounting, human resources, quality and other matters. Administrative services for citizens and businesses would remain where they are said to be in today's locations, including at least 182 local offices, as far as they are already informed and operate as the nearest point in which a citizen can meet the services of the state administration. And more than that, we plan even if there is a need in the field, an increase in the number of these local offices. In particular, if we are talking about the Tolmin administrative unit, the local office in Bovec already works today, the local office, if I am not mistaken, in the Bridge, operates the local office in Kobarid, in Grahove, so that the territory is covered with administrative services very well. Accurate human resources consequences. I'm sure there'll be humane consequences. These human resources implications will mainly be in transfers, as well as in the possible surpluses that will occur. This moment is impossible to talk about the exact number of potential redundant employees, this will only show the project when it is done individually. The Special Project Group is currently dealing with this issue. Of course, we will also take into account the geographical distance needed to move employees, especially in the case of Tolmin or the relationship of Tolmin - Nova Gorica. We'll take that absolutely into account. Not only do I ensure that the services do not in any way depart, it is said that it will never happen that someone after the service should take longer than he has had before, but I also guarantee that we will take this into account in moving employees when it comes to them. There is no direct link to electronic services here. Of course, we are trying, and we will still try to make everything that can be done online, even do, all the information and services, but at the same time we will never forget those who cannot or do not want to use the Internet. Thus, this reorganisation is not justified by the EU administration. On the question of new jobs. Employment policy in management is now restrictive. Of course, from the point of view of the possibility of unemployed finding a job, this is bad, but I do not think we can build employment policies on increasing the number of employees in the administration. We will continue to be restrictive in terms of employment in the administration. I would also like to point out that in this reorganisation, which is expected to take place next year, we are also thinking of horizontal connections as a variant. It is said that, under one roof, tax exposures, geodetics, expositions of the Ministry of Defence and, of course, administrative units would be pooled under one organisation at local level. To do this horizontal link, however, would strengthen today's actual administrative unit. If we want to do this, then of course the reorganisation will be a legislative project and then we will come to the National Assembly with reorganisation and then we will also be able to think about the names or instead of the administrative unit using the concept of an administrative district. In this case, the administrative unit of Tolmin could remain the administrative unit of Tolmin and actually function as an exposition [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] New Gorica. [[..]] I'm concluding. With regard to the availability of services, I would only say that we are working intensively on this accessibility forward and that with 1.5, a number of administrative units will also take over the issue of land books extracts, especially where there are no district courts and also at local offices, we will gradually introduce this opportunity to obtain an extract from the land book. A copy of the vehicle and the extension of the registration, but we are prepared to do so on administrative units in addition to authorised companies after 20 April. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u218	Thank you very much. Would you like an additional answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u219	Just for a little while. I would like to draw attention to one thing that is now happening on the tax administration, and I fear that it will also be in administrative units. For now, when customers come to the tax office, they write down the questions they have and then send them home and invite them in three days after the answer. That's what's going on at the tax office with us. But as for those new job opportunities, I was thinking more about those jobs once they were possible. I am afraid that then, I will say, the broader environment will not be considered for employment in these administrative units to be employment policy from those centres. That bothers me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u220	Thank you. Minister, any more comments?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u221	As far as the reorganisation of the tax administration is concerned, I agree that this was a bad move because the reorganisation of the tax administration was also about the fact that the services have also withdrawn from the local environment to the regional centres. I am specifically referring to services for value added tax debtors. This was not good, and we will not follow that example. I repeat, we will concentrate solely on management powers and directing services. With regard to employment, I would say once again, of course, the excess of these jobs will no longer be available and no one will be able to compete for them. With regard to jobs transferred from today's exhibits to future ones, for example, administrative units or administrative districts, this is actually a relatively small number, it may be a sum of about 100, if I say so over the finger, but, indeed, it is still in the project phase, so today it is difficult to precisely assess. I don't know, administrative units are institutions that are that part of the government, which is really the only one last year, I think it strictly adhered to the principle that the number of employees is decreasing. As of last year, they have reduced the number of employees by 117. This is not the most promising way to look for employment opportunities in administrative units. I would like to conclude by stressing that the specifics of Tolmina will be taken into account in particular due to geographical distances.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u222	Thank you. As the last in the so-called first round of questions, the question will be raised by Member Kristian Janc, two ministers, the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs and the Minister for Finance, who is, as it is said, excusedly absent.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u223	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Dear ministers, colleagues and fellow Members! The new Social Protection Act, which introduced a new social right to choose a family assistant, entered into force on 1.2.2004. I ask the Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs in this regard: Will he set clearer criteria for family assistants? I ask the absent Minister of Finance: Will he provide additional resources in the 2005 budget balance to carry out this new task of municipalities? Let me explain briefly. The new Social Protection Act, which introduced a new social right to choose a family assistant and entered into force, as I have already said, 1.2.2004, the Social Protection Act in Article 18a provides that the right to choose a family assistant shall be enjoyed by a full-time person with a serious mental disability or a full-year-old person who needs help in finding and meeting all basic needs of life. A family assistant may be a person who has a permanent residence as a disabled person or one of the family members of a disabled person. This may be a person who may have been considered an unemployed person under the employment and insurance rules in the case of unemployment or with a view to becoming a family assistant and who has either checked out of the unemployment register or left the labour market or a person who is in a working relationship with a shorter working time than full-time with the employer. The new Social Protection Act has made some changes to the obligation to finance social security services, but it has not contributed to greater transparency of the financial obligations of one level or another, of a country or of a local community. As a result, the municipalities were burdened by the financing of the State’s personal assistance, which would be a replacement for the financing of the family assistant. At the same time, however, the State avoided financing an allowance for foreign care and aid which, after choosing the right of a family assistant, still belongs to the disabled, but is in a state of stillness. However, the State has also allocated part of the funding of the loss of income payment received by parents in accordance with the parental allowance rules to the financing of personal assistance. On the basis of the above, it was understandable that the proposalers argued that the amendment of the law on the budget of the Republic of Slovenia would have no significant consequences. The claim that financing the right to choose a family assistant for the municipalities would not constitute an increase in costs, however, proved very wrong. This is a major additional burden on Slovenian municipalities and, of course, it is a task or service that cannot be included in such or other formula by calculating the corresponding financial resources of a municipality. The municipalities in the decision-making process are not even the parties in the process, but only the payment of services decided by someone else. The situation of family helpers is not fully elucidated. These receive a minimum wage, [[...]] [[Warning signal.]] insurance, which imposes slightly more than 128 thousand gross per month. [[...]] Their working hours are running out, and with a special form, they are reported by a social work centre, but they don't even have a real employer. They also have a workbook at home. Thank you very much. I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u224	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u225	Dear Member! Thank you so much for asking me that question. A family assistant came into the marriage novel last year, as you correctly determined. In fact, it has somehow provided for one part of the population - severely affected, mentally affected mainly and also motion-obstructed, instead of institutional protection, by a family assistant. This is the direction that is in place because it improves the choice of individual disabled persons and also gives the possibility to remain individual categories of persons even within the family or family. With regard to ensuring compliance with the legal conditions, I can say that the legal provision has been made, I believe that it is relatively accurate and that it also issues individual rights, but it is true that the text in the adoption procedure has been amended and that these amended provisions have been taken into account, and that some additional persons are also eligible for funding, not as mentioned at the outset. This is also due to the introduction of a financial substitute. Instead of providing funds for institutional protection, a family assistant shall be provided. It is not necessary, however, to provide funds for home aid, since this right is frozen during the implementation of the family assistant. As regards the financing of this right, it is noted that it is between 1 August 2004 and 15. 3. The status of the family assistant has been granted to 450 persons. In view of the data on the financing of family assistants so far, as well as information on the financing of municipalities and the use of funds in the entire area of social protection under the Social Protection Act, in particular this area of institutional protection and assistance of the family at home, the following can be identified at national level. The total amount of eligible consumption per capita in 2004 was granted to municipalities for the right of a family assistant to EUR 766 million. At the end of 2004, a total of 605 million tolars were used for the right of a family assistant and personal assistance. The comparison of data from the above indents shows that in 2004 there were sufficient resources at country level to carry out these activities. It is true, however, that these rights are not evenly distributed, so that some municipalities do not reach this spending and substantially deviate from this planned amount, while others who have greater needs, this contingent, somehow in advance, is expected to exceed substantially. And those congregations found themselves in financial deficits or financial distress. In the structure of the expenditure on social protection in the item - additional and complementary programmes of the IMF, our ministry estimates that certain adjustments are possible and that targeted spending is more clearly defined, as our rough estimate of consumption points to a certain reserve of resources in this part. Therefore, we can see that this is more a problem of allocation of funds, allocation of funds. We would like to point out that the majority of those entitled to this right are severely affected by mental development or are motion-obstructed or otherwise in need of institutional protection services or home aid. Institutional protection, however, is also significantly more expensive in relation to the family assistant. Problems arise mainly in the provision of funds for the exercise of this right across all municipalities. However, we expect to define the criteria more clearly in the context of the amendments to the Social Protection Act if there is still ambiguity and there is a clear distribution of the criteria in this funding under the headings.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u226	Thank you. Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u227	Thanks for the partial reply, I have to say definitely when this family assistant reaches out to all potential users, this will be the largest budget item among Slovenian municipalities. Believe me, Mr. Secretary. That's what's going on. I come from Posavje, the municipality of Krško, Sevnice and Brežice also have items of 80 million per year on 3.4 billion budgets. Municipality Sevnica, a concrete projection is prepared, but it cannot be definitively, because the number is unknown and will not be known by the end of the year, but it is expected that the second largest budget item will be a family assistant. Whether this projection was well done at the level of this novel law, I am sure it is not, and this is a huge additional burden for local budgets such and different municipalities. I think that we should seriously consider that these new and new burdens, which fall just here and have fallen heavily on Slovenian municipalities in the past, are just a service service to provide such and different needs. I believe that this move may be good, but no one has checked the financial implications of Slovenian municipalities. You yourself find that the uneven distribution of the burden by Slovenian municipalities. Here in these cases it sticks out like something amazing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u228	Mr. Minister, a comment.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u229	I think your initiative is definitely in place. I accept these objections, or the comments you have stated, that the rise of this right is evident and will need to be considered more clearly in the future. However, as some municipalities provide these rights more explicitly or the commissions can show that the provisions are not clear and, of course, we can think in this direction that the citizens are not yet fully informed of this possibility. So, we take all these warnings into account, we analyze them, and when we amend the Social Protection Act, we also introduce them. As you are probably aware, the proposal for amendments to the Social Protection Act to be drawn up by the Government is that by the end of June, and Parliament should be in the autumn. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u230	Thank you very much. If I'm allowed a little bit of a metaphor, we have three more marathoners who have decided on the second round and also the last round and a handful of fans. I invite you to ask the second question of the Member of Parliament, Mr Miran Potrč, again to the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u231	Thank you very much. Mr Minister, the content of the amendments and the addition of the law on military war invalids on your part did not surprise us, as you were already, as a Member, unloving of the rights of participants in the national-liberal struggle. We are disappointed, however, that when you defend the law, you are using half-truths to show that you are not prepared to show the real legal basis and consequences of the proposed law that you want to incur a few ten truly high individual benefits to damage all military wars of disabled persons. Polly truths are much worse than lies. I argue that the existing solutions in the law are based on the obligation set out in the Constitutional Charter that military war invalids are not primarily and only social rights, but also on the recognition of the State for health problems caused by the defence of the country, that different invalids cannot be compared not only with the weight of the disability, but also with regard to the circumstances in which the rights to disability and pensions are not two competing rights, since military war invalids, as well as with the workers, are two entirely different bases. Therefore, Mr President, to avoid ambiguity in my questions, I ask you to state in detail the following: "What is the amount of disabled military disabled persons for each category of disability from the first to the tenth groups under the applicable law and the proposed amendments and additions proposed by the Government to see the actual difference? How many people are disabled in each of these disability groups? So how many disabled people and how much of your proposal will the disability be frozen and for how long? How many disabled people will have to decide by the end of the year whether the right to a disability or the right to a pension is granted because you do not allow for the new two rights? What do you think those rights enjoyed by persons with disabilities are, and what are the amounts of these rights, to go into such drastic changes and to abolish rights under the law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u232	Thank you. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u233	Thank you so much for asking. Your Honor, I am very grateful for this question. First of all, I'd like to point out that I'm not disliking with military disabled people. These proposals, designed by the Ministry and also adopted by the government, are some of the reductions in privileges that are disproportionate. We have also made this clear. That we've reduced the basic by 50% if you look at an article that talks about this and an article that means a transitional period, you see that these valorisations are only frozen. That's clear, and as a good lawyer, you know that. However, they are limited to those maximum amounts. Then I'll tell you the sums in order, what they look like over 600,000. But these, honourable Members and Members, are not pensions. These are additions, I stress again, allowances that go both to disabled people and to family members, including invalids go to family members, although they have nothing to do with disability, widows, children and so on. What are your amounts? We've also prepared a table that we're going to present to you. The table shows how many war invalids were granted war invalids in April 2005 and how much they amounted to an individual disability rate. Some information. The number of first category users, this is just this invalidity, 201 total amount 44 million 866.574, as I said, is for April, the average amount of 223216,79. Second category, number of users 223, total amount 35 million 498.809, average amount 159.187. Third category, 229 users, total amount of 27 million and something else that I won't be too long, average amount of 121.254. Fourth rate, 456 users, total amount 40 million and some, average amount 89.477, and so on. Aid and service supplement, this is the second supplement that goes also with - the first category, from 1.2.2005 onwards, when the valorisation was made - 220.836 tolars. First with a 25% increase, 276.046 tolars. Second category 110,418 tolars. Then we have a special disability allowance - [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] They're combining it. [[...]] First degree, 25% supplement, 55.209. First rate with an increase, 35%, 77.292. Second rate, 19%, 41.958. Third rate, 12%, 26.500 and fourth rate, 6% dose, 13.250. Then there is a personal disability, which is also in this amount of 220 thousand and down. I will now make total amounts of these supplements, and once again I stress that these amounts do not include pensions, under the law on pension and disability insurance. First order, we can, now we take the time when we're right here and read them in two hours. First user, in line, total 692,144 invalidity 218 thousand, supplement DPI, supplement for special disability of 54,500, supplement for assistance and service 272.503 and disability supplement 147,137, total 692,144 tolars. Next, 641 thousand. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u234	Minister, we're going to have to finish this slowly.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u235	I think that, just to say that family members are entitled: one member, two members, three members, four members and these users is one third of the family members. It's just a fact. In view of the fact that these are family members, we can say that they are social benefits. These family members have nothing to do with disability and not with other supplements. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u236	Thank you. Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u237	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, who is also responsible for the disabled. How can you prepare such radical changes to the law without cooperation with disability organisations? Why are you not prepared to go to interviews and find out where this is really about unacceptable heights, and I believe that in individual solutions it can go, but you hope, because of these certain heights and individuals, which are a few tens of them, by placing these unacceptable heights and thus excite even the Slovenian public, to ensure that you will exercise your interest in changing for political reasons the entire system of disabled military war invalids. And that's what's coming. How do you hope that it is not necessary to take into account the different levels of disability in the light of the different circumstances? How do you hope to claim that a working disabled person - can, if he works, also get a disability; a military war disabled, if he works, cannot get a disability. As you do not say directly - for the first time today, you have said that all disability freezes of their benefits will apply from 1.1.2006 onwards to all. For everything! Because everyone's base is reduced by 50%. Then say it differently! Some, however, will be subject to an absolute reduction from the 1st month following the entry into force of the law and you know well that the freezing, [[Thank God.]] Desiring to have two percent or less inflation means that the current height is frozen to death.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u238	Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u239	Thank you very much for the additional question. This is not a few decades, of course I stress it again. First category 201, second category 223, third category 229 These are all with extremely high supplements and so on. [[...]] It's not a tithe, it's a hundred. These are hundreds, people, 200, 220, 229, 456. We understand each other, but we know what a tenth is and what a hundred is. Why hasn't there been interviews with disabled organizations? The Council for Persons with Disabilities of the Government has not yet been appointed. Because of some disputes, who is supposed to be inside, but this is, I also made it clear in public that it is the responsibility of the disabled and their ability to appoint them into the world. Because it wasn't, it wasn't even possible. Last but not least, people with disabilities can participate, they are also invited, and we also have a debate in three readings where changes can take place. About the valorizations. Only some benefits are valorized, they freeze, and some are not. Together, some people with disabilities will still have about 500,000, along with pensions. So it is only high amounts and this is worth re-emphasizing. The possibility of change, as I said, as far as you are trying to make such a distinction, is, of course, your platform. At the same time, we have workers in textile factories with 80,000 wages, but when they have to survive others, they do not get a reliable salary. Excuse me, these receipts, the invalids who go to the children's family, are social benefits, and they're not to be paid or compensated, that they've done war damage or that they've become at war, because they weren't in war. Once again, this proposal, which was last adopted, such a law, was unreasonable, not social, not responsible, and thus the country must not work. The proposal we have drawn up is reasonable and individual persons with disabilities will be able to participate in a public debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u240	Thank you. As a matter of last resort, I would like to invite Mr Aleš Gulic to ask the Minister of Health a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u241	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In the previous mandate, the Ministry of Health had a protocol transport in such a way that the vehicle had a Renault lagoon, which was allocated to the Minister for personal use and then paid a credit rating for it. The former Minister decided to do so because he felt that a limited amount of resources in the health sector required a reduction of costs wherever possible, and this was also a personal example. The current minister, Dr. Andrey Bručan, designed 3,000-cubic Audi A6, TDI Quattro, which costs 14 million tolls a whole new one. Well, so he won't drag me by my tongue, let me say he bought a little used for 10 million tolars. However, the questions are, of course, as a consequence. They are also linked to the fact that, in addition to these contributions, health funds are actually collected from charitable actions, different clubs are collected, Lyons, Rotarians and so on, and it is clear that this is a burden. Questions: Why did Dr. Andrej Bručan buy such a vehicle and not half the cheaper one because they can be obtained with the same safety qualities? What does his conduct tell Slovenian patients, besides what he has already said, that waiting periods may even be longer because of this? Would it not be more appropriate to show a little more, say, affection for some minimal and not Baroque, in the area that runs it and continues to face a lack of money? And also this: Will he continue to deal with the money left by the predecessor to build a pediatric clinic? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u242	Thank you. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u243	Of course, I am particularly happy about this question because it shows, for the first time, the ignorance of things, and here I will be able to answer exactly what I would like to answer for a long time. As far as saving the former minister is concerned, this discussion could be a very long one, but in particular it would take too much time to point out all the costs that they had made in the field of health at the time from the failed reforms, the payments of many foreign experts who had not shown exactly anything, which amounted to at least a hundred times as much as that difference as you are saying here in the difference between this car. Let's go to the car! The Ministry of Health has the oldest car, which is 11 years old, and the youngest is now 4 years old. The car I got from the previous minister, who was driven by the driver - this car too, not alone, he had a driver, so he wasn't exactly saved, was he? - but he was in such a state at the time of surrender that when we came to a hospital for a visit, the chauffeur said, but I have a minister in here, and the doorman said, "Do you have a minister in here?" As you wish, you have a minister in this car. The car was also partially hit, with a general score of 80,000. Then there was another matter that was decisive. There was a carball, for which it was not the driver's fault, it was practically a so-called "total" and then we decided to buy a used car and instead of 14 million for 9 million 800 and I think we didn't overdo it, I think the car is suitable for a minister and such a car has all the other ministers in practice. There was no big problem with waste. As far as my modesty is concerned, you know me too little to know how modest I am and how modest I am. Those who know me know I am. And those who know me also know that I want them to order me -- let's say, just one question about modesty -- transport in an economic class on an airplane, in regular lines and so on. I think, as far as my modesty is concerned, ask those who know me, I will not be able to boast in this area, nor stand alone. But as for the other questions you've asked here, how much this will affect the pediatric clinic and how much my predecessor has left the money, as far as the pediatric clinic is concerned, I'll tell you that he's only left the money that he failed to use because of his inability to use. He only left that money. According to him, he left 10 billion tolars that he failed to use, do you understand what that is? And it has nothing to do with the pediatric clinic, and it doesn't have anything to do with it. So, as far as this is concerned, I will calmly say that this will not affect the waiting period, nothing will affect the pediatric clinic. The money provided for the purchase of this car has been provided for more than six months and we have decided to purchase a used car for the needs of the minister. And if you think that a 2,4 or 2,400 cubic engine would cost less than half of 3,000, you're wrong, you probably don't know the prices. I don't tell my patients anything. I only tell them that my ministry will certainly be better for them, and that even waiting periods, even though you said that I said they would be extended, I said maybe for some kind of waiting period, not in general, and therefore I think that this will have absolutely no impact on the extension of waiting species in the health care sector. But I also think that now some of the results show that things are moving in the right direction, that's in a better direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u244	Thank you. Mr. Member, is there any further explanation?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u245	I thank Mr. Andre Brucan for his answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u246	Thank you very much. And last of all, I would like to announce to Mr Mikhael Prevc that he is asking the Minister for Culture.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u247	Thank you again for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In fact, the Minister may have been able to answer this question earlier because it actually concerns the same subject, but I was told that these are two separate questions somewhere, so I put them separately somewhere. In this case, too, the issue of local and regional radio and television stations is that these local radio and television stations concluded contracts with the Ministry of Culture in 2004 on co-financing of programming projects of particular importance, but these contractual amounts have not taken place and will not occur because RTV Slovenia unlawfully refrains from paying these funds, which have originated since the entry into force of the Media Act, which is from April 2001, until the entry into force of the Constitutional Court Decision, which is until September 2004, is said to be 3% of the RTV contribution. As a result, a number of radio and television broadcasters have found themselves in extreme financial distress and also on the verge of survival. I therefore ask the following questions from the ministries. Does the government in this case have any mechanism to force the national RTV organisation to pay the funds, however, since in this case it is a matter of respect for the law adopted by the government, of course? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u248	Thank you. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u249	Thank you, Mr President, for the question. Now, in the first answer, we've explained a little bit. I would only say that, however, of these 773 million, which were promised and contractually committed in 2004, I would say that in November 2004 130 million tolls were paid out of intervention funds, and for the rest of the journey is the only one that is normal: that is, execution or rubble by domestic and administrative enforcement authorities, the tax administration of the Republic of Slovenia and the Ministry of Culture have already proposed that the tax administration carry out this exercise and that it is currently being decided. I can only say so much, so we have put this into effect and are waiting for a decision by the tax administration. We believe that this time this will be acceptable to the Ministry of Culture and that this execution will actually take place. In fact, RTV Slovenia maintains these funds in a special account, but has complained about all these matters, but special funds exist on RTV and are kept. So we really believe and hope that this execution will occur and that they will be affected, one would say, paid. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-18-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u250	Thank you very much. That's it. As Ambassador Barbara Žgajner Tavš proposed that the Prime Minister's response be discussed and we will vote on this proposal tomorrow, I cannot conclude this agenda item, but I am interrupting it. I also adjourn the 5th session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. I wish you a nice evening, a good run, a happy journey for those who drive, and, of course, thank you very much both to the representatives of the government as well as to Members and Members of Parliament for their efforts and for their patience. Good night.
