ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u1	Dear Members, honourable Members, colleagues, ladies and gentlemen! Please calm down and take your seats. I begin the continuation of the 4th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and cannot attend today's meeting of the following Members: Franz Kangler from 17:00 p.m. onwards, Bojan Kontič, Dr Marko Pavliha, Milan Petek and Rudy Veršnik. We're moving to four. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Declaration on Guidelines for the operations of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union in the summer of 2005. Mr. Rop, would you like a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u2	Dear Mr President of the National Assembly, Members and Members of Parliament, the esteemed government! Today, a very important point for Slovenia and its implementation in the European Union is being considered and, therefore, the LDS Club would like to participate actively and constructively in this point. I'm sorry we can't do that. As you know, at the previous meeting or one of the previous points of the meeting of the National Assembly, there was the inappropriate, uncultured and undemocratic conduct of the Member and Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr Pečet. Mr President, I have called on you to do the right thing to protect the integrity of Members and Members, in particular our Member, Mrs Majde Shirca. You didn't do it, on the contrary, you said that what happened was nothing special. We believe that this is a scandal and that this is unacceptable behaviour for Slovenia and lowers democratic standards in Slovenian politics and the Slovenian Parliament. As you know, Member Peca did not apologize to the Member of Parliament, and given that the Member did not apologize, given that you yourself did not show any hope in your conduct that such behaviour, such a relationship, would change, we exploit the second paragraph of Article 65 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and predict obstruction at this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u3	If you don't mind, I'd like to explain my point of view. The Vice-President shall also, when conducting the meeting, conduct it in full sovereignty, with all the rights and responsibilities that affect the conduct of the national assembly. And then, as a Member, I certainly cannot stop my work, and I cannot react, for the Vice-Presidents are not being appointed by the President of the National Assembly, but are being appointed and dismissed by the National Assembly. For this reason, I regret that the Liberal Democracy Group is leaving this item on the agenda; it is certainly their right to take advantage of it, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Barovich, do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Look, I understand all the dilemmas that have been in at least five years, as far as I was a member of this National Assembly, when we experienced obstructions and obstructions. I do not understand, however, that today's content is completely separate from all that has been happening during this state session, this meeting of the National Assembly. The content, once again, is completely separate. This is a declaration, ladies and gentlemen, which means [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u5	Mr Barovic, please make a procedural proposal [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u6	a solemn declaration of principles and rights. [[...]] And the solemn declaration of principles and rights has nothing to do with leading you, one, the other or the third Vice-President, so I would suggest to my colleagues and colleagues of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia that they use such obstruction when it is appropriate, not today.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u7	Thank you. Mr Potč also has a procedural proposal. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u8	Thank you very much. Mr. President. In the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, we felt that this issue could be addressed in accordance with the Rules of Procedure through a discussion at the College meeting. However, according to today's statement, we inform you that, in our opinion, your statement regarding your responsibility is contrary to the rules of procedure and means the transfer of the responsibilities of the President of the National Assembly to the work of the National Assembly. Article 20 states that the Vice-Presidents shall assist the President of the National Assembly in his work, shall be said in the work of the President, and shall carry out, in agreement with him, individual tasks in his field of action. In short, the President is responsible for the functioning of the work of the National Assembly and also for whether or not, contrary to the Rules of Procedure, which are offensive to parliamentary practice, the Vice-Presidents shall carry out their duties. We wanted to warn you in writing, but let us inform you that we are withdrawing from this meeting and that after 15 minutes we will communicate our further cooperation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u9	Thank you. Another procedural proposal. Mr. Patche, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like you to attend. Since the introduction got complicated because of me, I would only ask if I could explain. I mean, my performance isn't procedural, but it's like an explanation. And I believe it is in the interests of our only country, this is the Republic of Slovenia. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u11	Mr Pece, there is no debate, there is no explanation, only a procedural proposal is possible or an explanation for further action. [[...]] I would ask you to respect this in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u12	Mr President, I have always respected your interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, and I will do so this time too, so I would like to give my further vision in accordance with your second instruction, if this is possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u13	No, thank you, there is no reason and there is no debate. We therefore proceed with the 4th item of the agenda. The draft declaration was submitted for consideration by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I give the floor to the Prime Minister, Mr Janez Janša, for an additional explanation of the text. Here you are, Mr. President. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u14	Dear Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues. Thank you for your word. There is an important point on the agenda. Slovenia will soon complete its first year of membership in the European Union, the European Union. By joining the EU, which has meant meeting one long-standing country's priorities, the focus of action has been on efforts to meet the criteria for inclusion has been transferred to our will, to our will, to our conduct following the most effective operation in a situation where Slovenia is a member of the Union. The introduction of Slovenia into the EU has already been and is also in the future mainly dependent on our activities, abilities, initiative and also on our ingenuity. We have further said that we will establish ourselves in the Union if we act as a credible integration partner and as such we will also be recognized in the community. Our actual impact within the EU can be significantly greater than the actual size of Slovenia, our gross domestic product or formal political influence. Experience has shown that smaller countries within this community, which is already very large, reflect more flexibly and are also more easily adapted to the new situation. In this situation, Slovenia will also try to increase its influence in addressing the issues through strategic links that will depend on each time specific interests. Community action requires coordination of views, which is an opportunity for smaller countries to influence decisions by the quality of their proposals and joint action. After almost a year of full cooperation within the EU, we have passed our first membership tests relatively well. Slovenia has effectively integrated into the functioning of the institutions and the co-forming of EU policies. At national level, the coordination system between ministries and government services is rounded up, enabling the country to prepare its views on the acts dealt with in EU institutions in a timely and coordinated manner. The state has also regulated cooperation between the government and Parliament in the field of European affairs. During the first months of membership, Slovenia continued to adapt Slovenia's acquis to European legislation, prepare to enter the European Monetary Union and establish an external border. A significant part of the activity was also the negotiation of a new financial perspective, measures to achieve the objectives of the Lisbon Strategy, efforts to effectively draw on EU funds and support the further enlargement process of the community. In 2005, Slovenia continued to work on most of the priorities from before, while also joining some new priorities. Before entering the community, Slovenia identified the key tasks listed above in the field of European affairs in a document entitled the Declaration on Positions for the Functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the EU institutions. Similarly, this year's document or the updated proposal for a declaration of guidelines for the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the EU institutions in 2005 highlights our priorities in this time frame. The fact is that this document is being considered at the end of the first quarter, partly due to our elections last year, and to a large extent to the delays that have occurred within the EU itself, the new European Commission was also set up with a certain delay and the priority committee only presented its priorities this year. The main purpose of the declaration we are considering is to contribute to the coordinated functioning of Slovenia in the EU and, of course, to the effective representation of our national interests in these institutions. The drafting of this document with defined key tasks in the field of European affairs in the broadest sense also contributes to greater transparency in the functioning of the State and thus to the public's awareness of the activities of Slovenian representatives within the community. It seems extremely important to the Government that the State Assembly is also involved in the drafting of the documents. This material was made known to the home working bodies of this High Council and discussed in more detail both the European Union Affairs Committee and the Foreign Policy Committee on the document. The validation of the 2005 priorities in the National Assembly will in general certainly strengthen the legitimacy of the selection of priorities. In the future, the government will also endeavour to make its operation as transparent as possible and will forward to the National Assembly for consideration acts which fall within its competence under the aforementioned Act. The documents before you define the following for 2005 as key tasks of Slovenia in the field of European affairs: continuing the implementation of the Lisbon Strategy, negotiating the next financial perspective for the period 2007-2013, efficient use of European Union funds, continuing preparations for the takeover and introduction of the euro, continuing preparations for the establishment of the external border, further enlargement of the European Union, strengthening cooperation with those countries which are further expanded and, of course, strengthening cooperation with strategic foreign policy partners, and finally starting preparations for the presidency of Slovenia to the European Union in the first half of 2008. Allow me to take a short walk over these key tasks in 2005. First, with regard to the implementation of the Lisbon Strategy. The European Council, last week or Slovenia, together with the other members of the European Council on 23 March, put the Lisbon Strategy into a more realistic framework. In this more realistic context, the year 2010 is no longer mentioned than the year when Europe will effectively capture the most developed economies in the world, this has been unrealistic since then, but a lot of debates have been initiated around this border, a lot of energy has been spent instead of spilling into other objectives. Now these targets are no longer in the renewed strategy. The renewed Lisbon strategy now includes instruments to monitor the achievement of the objectives and elements or instruments that will allow for the exposure of best cases. This is no longer a general document to be interpreted in its own way. The renewed Lisbon strategy clearly sets out an operational framework with a three-year cycle. In April 2005, it is said that within one month the Commission will adopt an integrated set of guidelines that will include the broad economic policy guidelines and employment guidelines so far. Member States will present their national action programmes for the first time this autumn, and the European Commission will present its annual progress report on progress and, at the same time, its first review of the implementation of national strategies in January 2007. In January 2008, after the first three-year cycle, the European Commission will prepare its first strategic report. This will also be the period when Slovenia will already preside over the European Union, and we will make sure that our first presidency in the first half of 2008 will be recorded in history as a successful milestone in the achievements of the Lisbon Strategy, as it is now being renewed. The draft strategy for the development of Slovenia for the next period, which took place in the general public debate last year, has now been awarded with the work of the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development of the Strategic Council for Economic Development and other government institutions. The government will consider and adopt a short document. This strategy for the long-term development of Slovenia is essentially a Slovenian version or national version of the implementation of the Lisbon Strategy. The overall well-being of each individual and individual is at the forefront of this new strategy for the development of Slovenia. The strategy therefore focuses not only on the economic issue but also on social, environmental, political and legal relations. In view of such a set of objectives, the strategy is also a country's sustainable development strategy and, as a national strategy has already been said, within the meaning of a document that enables the implementation of the Lisbon Strategy in Slovenia. Of course, we take into account the specific development opportunities, including the backlogs of this country, and also take into account the goals that we have not yet achieved and some others have already. At the margins of adopting this renewed Lisbon strategy last week, following these discussions, which were both in Brussels and in the wider European media area, it is clear that the real test stone of negotiations in the implementation of this renewed Lisbon strategy is the Services Directive, which will be a very hard stone for the whole of the European Union. Without the liberalisation of services, in addition to the already free market for goods, the Union will not be a modern and open Union that could successfully compete in the globalisation process. Slovenia supports the adoption of the Services Directive. After the last decision of the European Summit, the European Commission will complete the first draft. However, there have been considerable differences in this debate between some of the old Member States of the European Union and most of the new Member States. The fact is that the new members are more prepared for further reforms initiated by these accession restructurings prior to the entry into the European Union and there is a considerable cross in the old Member States with these reforms. According to experts, this Services Directive, which would make the single European market a single service area across the European Union, would allow the creation of around 600,000 new jobs. Of course, it can be expected that most of these jobs will be opened up in countries that are more competitive or that, when it comes to new jobs, a new Europe will be able to derive significantly more from this single market, says the new Member States, regardless of the high principles set out in the European documents when it comes to specific issues. And this directive is a very specific thing. These movements are not very easy. To a large extent, not only is the implementation of the Lisbon Strategy, but the overall faster development of the European Union, including within this new Member States to which Slovenia belongs, depends exactly on the further liberalisation of the service market. From this point of view, I cannot help but comment on some of the protests that have also been expressed in Slovenia against this Services Directive, because, to a large extent, those who have protested have protested against new jobs that would have opened up if this directive had been adopted as soon as possible. Slovenia is competitive here in many ways. The transition will be gradual, where the questions are the most. We have the most of these issues, including elsewhere, and there will be transitional periods. But this is actually a directive that will have to be adopted if we want Europe to be what we have also enshrined in the new European Constitutional Treaty. On this or on this subject, I am pleased to inform the National Assembly that a new step has also been taken at the beginning of the previous week in the negotiations on the new territorial membership of Slovenia on the basis of the so-called cohesion or the so-called cohesion or NUTS 2 region. This is a territorial basis for the allocation of funds from the Union Structural Funds. It is not about dividing Slovenia into provinces, but it is about statistical division, which, if achieved, allows Slovenia to draw on cohesion funds also in the next financial perspective, regardless of when it will be adopted. Slovenia is a temporary statistical region based on accession negotiations by the end of 2006. Until then, as has been said in these negotiations, a final agreement on this type of division of Slovenia would have been reached, which would have been the most effective means of implementing regional policy in our country. Last year there was no way to move forward in these negotiations, the European Commission insisted that Slovenia remain one statistical region. As already said, in these negotiations last week, for the first time there has been movement, allowing Slovenia a significantly larger space of manoeuvre, even when it comes to negotiations on the next financial perspective. We estimate that this statement by the Commission is an important achievement, which, as has already been said, does not last leave us an open room of manoeuvre and allows for different variants, regardless of the speed of this process. The efficient use of European Union funds is one of the issues of critical importance for the future development of the country. In the area of cohesion policy, Slovenia has already placed active involvement in negotiations on new cohesion policy regulations for the next financial period and activities related to the effective absorption of cohesion policy funds as a priority in last year. With full membership in the Union, Slovenia has become involved in the work of the European Commission in monitoring and monitoring the implementation of cohesion policy in the European Union. We have been actively involved in its administrative and advisory functions since its inception in the framework of the Committee on the Development and Conversion of the Regions. In addition to monitoring the use of funds, the Committee advises Member States to carry out drawing procedures from the European Structural Funds and to ensure compliance with European Union rules. Thus, in principle, in practice, recent calculations by the Ministry of Finance show that Slovenia's net financial position in 2004 was not entirely satisfactory. This is mainly due, for the first time, to the expenditure side of the fact that Slovenia, as a Member State, has paid its share of the European budget for the first time [[Some more than 40 billion tolars]] However, on the income side, this is due to the fact that, in particular, due to the implementation of pre-accession aid allocations of around SIT 10 billion, the sum of these funds received for this number will increase, but there will be no more of these resources now that we are full members. Furthermore, this is due to the influx of European lump sums [[About 27 billion tolars]] , the influx of European agricultural resources [[5.5 billion tolars]] , inflow of European funds from other headings [[A few more than half a billion tolars]] and the fact that there were no inflows of European funds in the area of European Union cohesion policy. If we sum this up, we can conclude that if Slovenia did not receive in 2004 the funds we received from the pre-accession aid, the State would virtually be a net payer in the European budget. Of course, in real terms, the experience of the old countries of the Union shows that no country in the first year of membership in the community has been able to optimally draw on cohesion policy funds. The same applies to other new members, in addition to Slovenia, which we entered last year. The fact is that these projects are being prepared for a long-term process, with the European budget resources not showing up from the approval of the project for up to three years. For this reason, it is partly understandable that during the first months of membership in the Union a more significant influx of resources in this area was not possible to expect, but the result should still be greater than zero. In 2004, around 4 billion tolars were paid for the activities already carried out from the state budget, which is around 7% of the available resources, corresponding to the level of the EU advance received or the EU budget for 2004. It is true, however, that Slovenia did not submit any requests for payment to Brussels last year, which is why there was no formal drawing. When the government analyzed this situation, it organized itself to repair it. The work in this area is being accelerated. We are aware that all due attention must be paid to the successful use of European funds. For the attention of individual ministries seems to have fallen sharply in this area immediately after Slovenia's entry into the EU, which, of course, did not produce good results. This month, this year, the government adopted 34 measures to remedy the situation in order to establish a link between the various records, strengthen the control function and record the staff structure for the successful preparation and implementation of projects. First attention should be given to the programming process that will begin after 2005. After we have taken these 34 measures, we have found that the problem is the over-complicatement of the coordination mechanisms of the various authorities, shared competences, which we are now trying to simplify. Some comparisons have shown that last year Slovenia established the most complicated permanent system for drawing European funds from all EU countries. And how can local communities or those who enter such a system, for example, be found in such a system for the first time? With Slovenia's entry into the exchange rate mechanism in June 2004, Slovenia took an important step towards achieving the goal of taking over the euro from 1 January 2007. Through its cooperation in the exchange rate mechanism, Slovenia will meet an important criterion for the introduction of the euro, and in this time it will be necessary to continue with measures aimed at meeting the remaining criteria, as all of us have a key role to play in reducing inflation. In order to meet these criteria, further coordinated action will be necessary, and in part the restrictive functioning of economic policies, both governments and the Bank of Slovenia. Both institutions have committed themselves to this through the programme of entry into the exchange rate mechanism. Slovenia, by entering ERM 2 or Slovenia, commits to continuing its public financial consolidation policy, which is necessary to achieve a macroeconomic balance that meets both the Maastricht criteria and the principles of a partially updated European Stability and Growth Pact. By confirming this change or, as some say, reform of the Stability Pact at the March European Council, Slovenia is largely pleased, and we are particularly pleased with the part of the Pact that strengthens its preventive work. This will in the future enable more effective prevention of crises or situations that need to be treated with more painful measures. Slovenia also responds to the fact that the reference borders have not changed because we have turned our policies towards it. The compromise reached, which has taken place without material sacrifice of the foundations of the Stability Pact, is, in our view, of great importance for the stable development of the European Union in the coming years. At the same time, when the government has adopted these conditions, it has committed itself to continue to effectively implement structural reforms that ensure greater economic flexibility and increase its competitiveness, achieve macroeconomic balance and implement structural reforms, thereby improving business conditions and significantly improving the chances of achieving a higher standard of living for the population. This year, in addition to the efforts we will be making to meet the substantive criteria for taking over the euro, we will continue with technical preparations for the exchange of currency. In February, a good month ago, the government adopted a plan to introduce the euro. The technical preparations shall thus include all relevant bodies and institutions responsible for taking over the euro in the monetary and economic fields, in the field of financial institutions and public administration. Particular attention will be paid to the introduction of double labelling, which will be introduced early enough to avoid unwanted abuse. Slovenia has already successfully made the transition from a dinar to a tolar in difficult circumstances, so of course we see no reason why it would not succeed in technical terms even in the transition to the euro. The continuation of preparations for the establishment of the external border will be a key priority of the country in 2005, and is therefore also mentioned in the list of these tasks. The establishment of effective external border management is important for Slovenia, inter alia, because of its geographical position as a border country of the European Union, which is responsible for effective control and control of 670 km of the European Union's land external border. At the time of the adoption of the Declaration of Positions for the Functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the Institutions of the European Union in 2004, Slovenia, within the framework of the establishment of the external border, sought to reflect the strategic documents considered by the Council of the European Union in 2004 the clear commitment of all Member States of the Community to solidarity and also to the fair sharing of responsibility, which also includes the financial costs of establishing an external border. The Hague programme adopted last November by the European Council, which represents a new five-year Community programme in the field of justice and home affairs, includes the said commitment to solidarity in setting up an external border. Further enlargement of the European Union as one of the priorities. As you know, Slovenia has always advocated an open-door policy, it is said that the European Union is expanding and we are a strong advocate of this policy within the European Union even when it comes to the whole region of the Western Balkans. In January 2007, Romania and Bulgaria are likely to become new members if the expected scenarios are followed, although there have been issues in some European Union institutions recently that may also delay full membership. Last December, the European Council adopted decisions to open negotiations for membership with Croatia and Turkey. The other Western Balkan countries have a more or less open European perspective in theory, but at least at the end of one phase. With regard to the further enlargement of the European Union, Slovenia will continue its efforts to keep the doors of the European Union open in the future, subject to all the criteria and conditions for membership. In fact, it should be very clear that stability in the region, stability in the Western Balkans, which is in our strategic interest, will not be clearly visible without this objective being realistically achieved within a certain time frame, while meeting certain conditions. All other alternatives are worse. Not only for these countries, but also for Slovenia. The whole region is still facing a series of unresolved status and constitutional issues. These issues must also be resolved by providing long-term answers to open questions. Slovenia, which is very close to this region, is also trying to influence other Member States to keep them conscious. The whole Western Balkans must, in our view, remain high on the agenda for the entire international community as well. In this context, transatlantic cooperation is irreplaceable and also essential to the success of addressing common threats. We are also committed to enhanced cooperation with Russia, which is a strategic partner of the European Union and an important factor in addressing crisis situations in the immediate neighbourhood of the Union. Slovenia, as President of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe and an active member of the European Union, will also advocate as much coordination as possible between the European Union and the OSCE. Synergies and complementarity of efforts are key to resolving open issues and frozen conflicts in the immediate neighbourhood of the European Union, where these potential crisis hotspots are practically opened every week. Your Honor! As is known, the Republic of Slovenia will face an even greater challenge after the OSCE Presidency, which is the Presidency of the European Union in the first half of 2008. This option was given to Slovenia as the first new member, which is both honor and recognition, and of course also a great responsibility. Since this decision was known, we have established appropriate links with Germany and Portugal, with which we will chair the Union in the troika in 2007, the first half of 2008. The exact modalities of the Presidency, which are not defined by the Constitutional Treaty, remain partially unclear, will depend largely on the ratification process of the Constitutional Treaty there by November 2006 and on the very success of ratification. At the moment, after these talks, we can say that the tendency is to divide Germany and Slovenia into one and a half years in a way that Slovenia will preside, as was said, in the first half of 2008. The Presidency of the European Union will be one of the priority national projects already undertaken by the government with all seriousness for Slovenia. The organisational structures are already in place, a narrower working group on the preparations for the presidency will look out for preparations in a strategic sense and set political priorities. Preparations will focus mainly on five key areas: the Presidency programme, the Human Resources Programme, communication with the public, logistics preparations and the financial plan. This process will involve all ministries, which, of course, have already identified key persons for their areas of preparation for the presidency. This Presidency will enhance and consolidate the international visibility of Slovenia, with good work, with the assumption of good and efficient work, which will be able to enhance its reputation in international economic, financial and business circles. The latter will indirectly have a positive impact in the direction of strengthening Slovenia's economic ties in the world. Slovenia will be able to actively work towards strengthening transatlantic relations, strengthening European Union relations in a new neighbourhood to address open crisis situations, strengthening partnerships with all strategic partners of the European Union and with all other Union priorities. Dear High Council! This was a short walk across the key tasks ahead of the country in the field of European affairs this year. Some have already been implemented, some have already started in last year and we continue to do so. We must be aware that Slovenia, as an equal member of the European Union, is co-forming decisions to further develop the entire enlarged Union, that this is an important and very responsible conduct at the same time. The actual impact of Slovenia can be greater than our physical size, Slovenia can contribute to the common objectives of the European Union through a constructive approach and fresh ideas. From what I have said, it is practical to conclude in itself that in the coming years the engine of the Lisbon Strategy is likely to contribute to significantly faster growth within the community, particularly the new Member States, which continue to maintain the pace of accession efforts, reforms and the fulfilment of the objectives which are a formal and declarative objective of the whole of the European Union. However, when it comes to practical measures, there is usually more will in the new Member States than in the old ones. Dear High Council! At the end of this introduction, I stress once again that the government will also try to act as transparently as possible in the future or, as is said with foreign, transparently, in the field of European affairs. Here we greatly appreciate the debate and proposals on the Committee of the National Assembly on European Affairs and also on the Committee on Foreign Policy. This together represents the whole of which we also draw on these fresh ideas, which are particularly necessary if a small country in such a large community as the European Union is to be properly implemented. I want these fresh ideas to come from this tall house as much as possible, and I promise we will gladly use them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u15	Thank you, Prime Minister, Mr. Janez Janša. The Declaration was addressed as competent working bodies by the European Union Affairs Committee and the Foreign Policy Committee. Mr. Potch, you want procedural? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u16	Thank you very much. Mr President, I would like you to allow me to procedurally explain our decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u17	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u18	Thank you very much. In the Group of Members of the United Nations Social Democrats, we are convinced that the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union is of such importance that we have to participate in it. We want to help shape the position and direction of the Republic of Slovenia, because our perspective, position, interests, opportunities for our economy and our citizens and citizens depend in many ways on the functioning of the European Union. In particular, we know or regrettably believe that, on this issue, it cannot be counted that the unacceptable conduct of the Vice-President of the National Assembly can be sanctioned in any way in order not to participate in the meeting and in such an important item of the agenda. While, Mr President, we are disappointed that, at our warning that we are going to the consultation - without having a formal obligation, you have had the right - you have not interrupted the point and may have called the leaders of the groups of Members to the consultation to show that you want to act as president on behalf of and for the benefit of all Members and Members and the entire national assembly, not just the coalition. That's not how you did it, and you didn't take advantage of that opportunity. We also believe that there are many examples in which your promise to achieve new quality in the relationship between coalition and opposition and additional value in the functioning of the National Assembly is not always and fully realized. Likewise, you did not take the opportunity you had just to point out how, in favour of the reputation of the National Assembly and in favour of respect for the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, both of which are directly your obligations under Article 19 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, to take care of the functioning of this Assembly. You haven't taken advantage of this opportunity. Once again, I would like to point out that this is why we have decided to alert you to this obligation. We expect the College of the National Assembly to warn and together find that action as it has been in recent days, regardless of whether you feel that it is not so bad and at least has its own style, only significantly exceeds the limits of tolerance in the relations of the President-in-Office with the Members of Parliament, in order to assist in this, because it is on you personally and on the coalition the greatest responsibility that this Parliament will enjoy in the future. In anticipation of such a relationship and respect for the rules of procedure in the future, we will participate in this item today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u19	Thank you, Mr. Run. I was informed that Dr. Rupel wanted to discuss it on behalf of the government. Here you go. Presentation of the opinion of the Government. Here you go, Mr. Rupel.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u20	Dear Mr President of the National Assembly, distinguished Prime Minister, honourable Members, honourable Members, distinguished colleagues, colleagues, representatives of the media! Years ago we listened to lectures and read texts entitled Slovenians and Europe. At that time, we have not imagined that Slovenia could be in Europe, in the European Union and that maybe one day, and that that day is today, and it will no longer be necessary. I think it is necessary to discuss this declaration in fact in connection with the disappearance of this "in" link between Slovenians and Europe, because we are Slovenians in Europe. Europe is with Slovenians, Europe is impossible to imagine without Slovenians. The European Union is a global player, Slovenia has become part of this influential club, both economically and politically, with its membership in the European Union since May last year. And, of course, no one is aware that this was a historic step for our country. Slovenia is an active participant in this global game. If I play a little geography. Slovenia in the European Union not only borders Croatia but also borders Turkey, also borders Belarus, Russia, Ukraine, Maghreb countries and so on. It has borders everywhere where the European Union has borders. For the European Union in the foreign policy area, 2004 has been very diverse and very diverse. Important steps have been taken to deepen and coordinate the external and security components of the European Union. The Treaty of Constitution for Europe was signed, and a decision was taken to continue enlargement with Croatia and Turkey. The European Union then took over the NATO operation in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Progress has been made towards third countries and regions. Here I refer to the Western Balkans, then the Middle East peace process, Iraq, Iran, for example. The Union's cooperation with strategic partners such as the United States of America, Russia, China, Canada and international organisations has deepened. In all these activities, the Republic of Slovenia played a constructive role and assumed its share of responsibility. In 2005, the European Union will continue to be a global player in terms of ensuring stability and development, both in its immediate neighbourhood and in the wider international security environment. In this context, the Republic of Slovenia will strive to promote its own qualities and interests. Ladies and gentlemen, the European Union is an unfinished story, a dynamic process. The Union’s success depends on its ability to deepen integration processes and to continue to expand to the new Member States. A clear signal to countries that, in meeting the criteria and conditions, an open road to the Union is the best way to ensure stability and the further development of the European continent. In this light, the Republic of Slovenia will continue to support the early launch of accession negotiations with Croatia, as the further enlargement of the European Union in the Western Balkans is in our country's original interest. In this context, the conclusions of the previous EU foreign ministers should also be understood. The door, also mentioned by the Prime Minister, remains open when all the criteria are met. Our country will continue to advocate that the Western Balkans remain high on the agenda of the Union and the international community. It is in the Western Balkans that the EU assumes ever-increasing responsibilities in the security field. I should mention civilian crisis management missions in Macedonia and Bosnia and Herzegovina and take over SFOR operations since NATO last December. The Slovenian contribution to these missions is highly valued within the EU, and we are also building the status of a responsible and equivalent partner. The year 2005 this year will be a turning point in many ways for the further stability and development of this region, I am talking about the Western Balkans. Political, economic and social stabilisation processes in Kosovo are still not completed. The failed assassination of President Rugova is a reminder that there is a very thin line between stability and confusion in the province. The final solution to the Kosovo issue is a long-term process which is inseparably linked to the European perspective of the entire region. Our country advocates that the EU assumes a greater role and greater responsibility in Kosovo. We generally agree in the EU that it is not possible to return to the situation before 1999, that when we discuss the future of Kosovo, it is impossible to support the division of the province and that, of course, it is not possible to support the integration of the province with any Albanian-speaking or Albanian-ethnic community in neighbouring countries. The European perspective of Serbia and Montenegro is equally or even more important. Slovenia in the EU is very interested in filling the space between Slovenia, the north or north-west, and Greece in the south-east. In this regard, let me say that Serbia has a slightly different opinion on Kosovo's future. Towards those three points that I just mentioned, they set three different points. Only one agrees that a return to the year before 1999 is not possible, otherwise they are not for the independence of Kosovo or for autonomy. They say it takes less than independence and more than autonomy. Our country has repeatedly made it clear within the EU that it is impossible to expect positive developments in the Western Balkans, in our neighbourhood or anywhere else without constructive and coherent cooperation with other partner countries and international organisations, either in America, Russia, the United Nations or the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe. The strong EU also provides stronger transatlantic cooperation. Successful processes within the EU, the real introduction of the euro, enlargement, European security strategy, progress in the area of common foreign policy, justice and internal affairs are fundamentally changing the content of transatlantic cooperation. The European Union is becoming an increasingly equal and globally responsible partner. The Republic of Slovenia will continue to work within the European Union to strengthen its strategic dialogue not only on security issues but also on economic development and monetary issues. Russia, of course, is also a strategic partner of the European Union. With the latest enlargement, the interest areas between the European Union and Russia are increasingly intertwined, which is a new challenge for a comprehensive deepening of ties and cooperation. For our country, relations between the European Union and Russia are also of particular importance from the point of view of our Presidency of the Organisation for Safe Cooperation in Europe. Solving existing and open issues in the immediate neighbourhood of the European Union is a frozen conflict, for example, for Kosovo, which will not be possible without constructive dialogue with the Russian Federation. How important it is to be prepared for such a dialogue, events have shown just recently. You will recall that after the events in Georgia and after the events in Ukraine, there has been a great deal of discomfort and great criticism by the Russian Federation and that this time it has not happened the same with regard to Kyrgyzstan, but with the help of the OSCE we are trying to achieve a different, more partnership relationship in solving this really complicated issue. The objectives and interests of the European Union and the OSCE are intertwined and complemented. We believe that it is of great importance, although he has already used the word before me, and I will repeat it, the synergy between the European Union and the OSCE. We are therefore interested in as much coherence and coordination as possible between these two activities, I cannot say to organisations, because the European Union is much more than an organisation, these two communities. The implementation of the European Neighbourhood Policy is closely linked to matters dealt with by the OSCE. These are, for example, democratisation, human rights, the resolution of frozen conflicts; then, the strengthening of security in the neighbourhood of the European Union, in the neighbourhood of Slovenia. In some ways, the European Security Strategy is the central strategic objective it mentions. In this context, the OSCE is a very relevant organisation for the EU's common external and security policy. The OSCE itself is in the midst of important changes, and Slovenia was the one that started the process of transformation by appointing a group of prominent persons to talk about what changes can be made in these days. It is not only the OSCE in the midst of such changes, but also the European Union is in the midst of such changes, why else would it prepare or prepare a new constitution, why it would still elect such thorough and bitter debates in the European public. The United Nations organization is also in the midst of major changes, including Kofi Annan, Secretary-General of the United Nations, and has started a debate on how UN institutions can be reformed. Let's say the Security Council, how can some of the so far untouchable policies of the United Nations, such as humanitarian intervention, etc. be changed. Therefore, the support and cooperation of the European Union in reforming our OSCE organisation will be crucial. I'm going back to 2004. At that time, two decisions were taken which will be extremely important for the future of the Republic of Slovenia within the European Union. It was signed by the Constitutional Treaty for Europe, which has already been ratified here by the Republic of Slovenia. And a decision was taken on the Presidency of the Republic of Slovenia to the European Union in 2008 in combination with Portugal and Germany. As the Prime Minister has already said, there is a challenge before us, a great opportunity for our country to consolidate its reputation as a country capable of taking on its share of the responsibility for development and stability of both the European continent and the wider international community. This is my contribution to this debate on the declaration, on the guidelines for the functioning of our country in the institutions of the European Union this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u21	Thank you, Mr. Secretary, Dr. Ruple. Mr Koprol, the Secretary of State responsible for European affairs, will also speak on behalf of the proposer. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u22	Mr. President. Dear Members and Members, the rest are present. Each year, the Council of the European Union examines thousands of legislative and non-legislative acts. Some of these acts have a major impact on the situation in us, and some do not affect the areas concerning Slovenia at all. It is therefore necessary to highlight for Slovenia the key areas to which we will pay our attention in the institutions of the European Union over a certain period. The 2005 Slovenian Priority Paper identifies areas that Slovenia will pay more attention to this year, as well as the previous guidelines for establishing our country's position in these areas. The priorities are therefore the basis for ensuring that Slovenia's efforts in the European institutions focus on key areas and that Slovenia's voice in Brussels is uniform. Allow me, as Secretary of State for European Affairs and Head of Government for European Affairs, to devote more detail to two of the key tasks for 2005. I am thinking of negotiations on the next financial perspective and preparations for the Presidency of Slovenia to the European Union in the first half of 2008. One of the key tasks of Slovenia this year is to actively participate in the negotiations on the next financial perspective of the European Union with a view to a successful conclusion of the negotiations. As you know, the current financial perspective of the European Union expires at the end of 2006. The formal debate on the scope and structure of the financial perspective for the following financial period began after the European Commission submitted a proposal for a financial framework for the period 2007 to 2013. Following the plan set out in December last year, the European Council adopted a rather distorted basic guidelines as a basis for further work. The June agreement on the next financial perspective is ambitious, but certainly the right objective, which Slovenia is working hard to achieve. The adoption of the financial framework at the European Council meeting in June this year would practically ensure that we remain fully eligible for the most part of the European Union's cohesion policy. However, if negotiations were not successfully concluded at that time for any reason and would have been carried forward in the coming period, Slovenia would still still receive a significant amount of funds as a statistically affected region, but would, of course, seek the realization of Slovenian interests in any of the additional possible solutions available to us. Slovenia has actively participated in the discussions on the financial perspective so far, and we want to keep it or even speed it up until the end of the negotiations. Last but not least, the February meeting of the 17 Member States in Brdo pri Kranj, with which we wanted to contribute as much as possible to the convergence of positions and to prove that by insisting on the time frame, we are serious about the negotiations. A new meeting of the 17th was introduced at the Brdo meeting. In view of the fact that this time the host host of these meetings has informed the Luxembourg Presidency of the discussions, the response to this action has been positive and this practice is now being maintained. In the coming months, accelerated negotiations will take place at the level of the special meetings of the Committees of Permanent Representatives and of the Special Ministerial Conferences with a view to completing the negotiations in a timely manner. To answer whether an agreement is possible in June, it is still too early. The current debate shows that there is still a considerable gap between Member States' views on both the scale and the structure of the funds themselves. Nevertheless, we expect their convergence to take place in the coming months, and calls for negotiations to be accelerated are therefore increasing. The Luxembourg Presidency, however, will move the debate from the principle of exchange of views to the stage of real negotiations as soon as possible by means of a new way of work. We doubt, however, that the extension of negotiations would automatically lead to a better final agreement. The agreement is a goal that needs to be achieved and it will therefore be necessary to bring the positions closer to each other in the coming months. Let me also briefly touch on the views that Slovenia is seeking to promote such a structure and the level of funding for the next financial perspective, which will enable the Union to deal effectively with the challenges of increased internal differences in the level of development between Member States and to be able to pursue the objectives of the Lisbon Strategy and strengthen its role in the world. In doing so, of course, we are in favour of such an agreement, which will provide us with the most favourable combination of elements to achieve the three strategic objectives. The first, development objective, which means achieving the sustainability of economic growth and continuing the process of real convergence by increasing the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy under the conditions of active implementation of the Lisbon Strategy. The second, security and foreign policy objective, which includes strengthening the security and foreign policy situation of Slovenia as members of the European Union, under the conditions of joint financing of the Union's external border and the active involvement of our country in the creation of the external action of the European Union, and in particular its policies towards South-Eastern Europe. And the third public financial objective, which foresees maintaining a stable public financial position under the Maastricht fiscal criteria, increasing the contribution of public finances to the achievement of development objectives and maintaining the position of the net recipient of funds from the budget of the European Union during the next financial perspective. In the negotiations, it is never possible to talk about intermediate results, as nothing is agreed until everything is agreed. I can only stress that the substantive guidelines on the next financial perspective proposed by the Commission are in line with our expectations and wishes and, in principle, acceptable to all Member States. I will therefore, in the negotiations that follow, together with the other Member States, seek such an agreement that will, on the one hand, take into account the proposed substantive guidance proposed by the Commission and, on the other hand, be able to solve the problems of those countries which advocate more restrictive European budget due to overpayment. We believe that we are capable of this Member State. The next important task I would like to discuss is the preparation for the Presidency of Slovenia to the European Union in the first half of 2008. The fact that Slovenia has been elected as the first among the new members for the presidency presents us with a recognition and a great opportunity to consolidate our reputation as a country capable of taking on its share of responsibility for the development and stability of both the European continent and the wider international community. At the same time, the decision confirms that Slovenia's successful involvement in the functioning of the Union is also recognised by other Member States. The Presidency will be an extremely demanding national project. As soon as Slovenia has decided to chair the European Union, to launch preparations, to establish a structure for the management and coordination of the preparation and presidency of Slovenia to the European Union and to identify the main groups of tasks related to the preparations for the Presidency. As already mentioned by the Prime Minister, a narrow working group was established in early January, under the leadership of the Prime Minister, setting up political guidelines and priorities for the Presidency. The operational preparation and implementation of the Presidency under my leadership shall be carried out by a broad working group for the Presidency, composed of representatives of individual ministries and bodies involved in the preparation of the Presidency. The tasks relating to the preparation and implementation of the Presidency have already been divided among the so-called sub-groups for the Presidency, which are led by the competent authorities for each area. This is how the government has already begun to prepare the Presidency programme and the first draft of the Human Resources Plan and the education plan is being drawn up. There is also a programme of communication with the public and promotion of Slovenia during the Presidency and a programme of preparation for the organisation of the Presidency from a logistical point of view. By the end of June 2005, project tasks will be developed for all areas of preparation. These tasks will define in more detail the tasks of the sub-groups, the institutions for their implementation, the deadlines within which they need to be carried out and the costs associated with them. The project tasks will take into account both possible implementation of the Presidency, with or without a constitutional agreement for Europe. Preparations for the Presidency shall take place in cooperation with the co-chair countries, Germany and Portugal, the General Secretariats of the Council, the Commission, the next President-in-Office of France, the European Parliament and the other Member States. Dear Members and Members! We have therefore entered a very difficult period of action within the European Union, which offers Slovenia many opportunities. The tasks entrusted to us are understood first as a recognition of our work so far, and then as a great responsibility and a challenge for our future work. We believe that we will make the most of our opportunity and the benefit of the Union and prove that we are up to the most demanding tasks of the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u23	Thank you, Mr. Koprol. I now give the floor to the President of the Committee on European Union Affairs, Mr Anton Kokal, to present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u24	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the respected government! In the beginning, let me wish to all of us that the Easter atmosphere we have enjoyed in the last days will also be drawn through this debate and throughout the year, particularly in the field of work within the European Union. At its 8th meeting, on 11 March 2005, the Committee on European Union Affairs considered the proposal for a declaration of guidelines for the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union in 2005 and the priorities of Slovenia for the work of the Council of the European Union in 2005. For the first time in the National Assembly this year, we are considering both documents, under the provisions of the Law on Cooperation between the National Assembly and the Government in matters of the European Union and under the new chapter of the Rules of Procedure relating to the handling of European cases. The document was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the national assembly under Article 5, paragraph 2, of the aforementioned Act and Article 154.f, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. At first, the proposal for a declaration and priorities pursuant to Article 154(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia dealt with 12 parent committees which sent their opinions to the competent committees by means of amendments within the time limit. In this work, the European Union Affairs Committee carried out a left-wing part of the examination of both documents, since, apart from the parts relating to the common foreign and security policy, it considered the whole document as such. At its meeting, the Committee considered the opinions of all 12 working bodies and identified itself for their amendments. With the amendment of the Committee, we have included the priorities in the proposal for a declaration, making them an integral part of it. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia also explained its opinion on some of the amendments. Mr Marcel Koprol presented the proposal for a declaration and priorities at the meeting as her representative. In his opinion, the central purpose of the documents is to strengthen the consistent functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the European Union, to effectively represent the national interests of the Republic of Slovenia in the European Union and to inform the national assembly and the wider Slovenian public of Slovenia's priorities in the European Union. As Chairman of the Committee on European Union Affairs, I would like to brief you on the course and on the key points of the consideration of the two documents. As it is said, they are substantively connected and complement each other. The proposal for a declaration highlights the 10 priorities of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union, which follow the three rounded sets. First, we took priority, where the debate was particularly lively in the chapter of the next financial perspective. The question has been raised as to whether to include a provision under which Slovenia should support the overall scope of the budget of the European Union in accordance with the basic proposal of the European Commission, in particular in favour of achieving the objectives of the Lisbon Strategy and Cohesion. Following discussions and arguments on the usefulness of such negotiating tactics, such an amendment was finally voted. The debate on the amendment to the cohesion policy chapter was no less controversial. The debate has shown that there are still a number of unknowns in the current phase, particularly as regards the conclusion of negotiations on the next financial perspective. In the area of social policy, two almost identical amendments were proposed, referring to the Slovenian candidacy for the seat of the European Institute for Gender Equality. The amendment proposed by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons was adopted. The proposal for a declaration, however, has a debate on the amendment, which concerned, for example, that no agreement on the next financial perspective would be reached during the Luxembourg Presidency. It is so important for Slovenia that, on the basis of a specific declaration, today, at the time of the pre-accession negotiations, in which it wants to continue its discussions on division into regions, discussions continue on division into three regions on the basis of already prepared negotiating points for territorial division and achieve that Slovenia will be a European statistical classification of territorial units, divided into three cohesion regions. The amendment with such content was adopted. The hottest was the amendment proposed by a representative of the Slovenian National Party as an amendment to the Committee. Following this amendment, Slovenia's priorities in the area of enlargement of the European Union should not favour the support of one country; it was a different understanding of the text and the amendment tabled that all candidates, without exception in accession negotiations, must meet all the conditions before inclusion. After a lengthy discussion, which also came to Croatia's participation with the Hague court, the amendment was not adopted. I have thus briefly outlined the debate that took place on the committee responsible with regard to the proposal for a declaration of guidelines for the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union in 2005 and the priorities of Slovenia for the work of the Council of the European Union in 2005. It is up to us, dear colleagues and colleagues, to support and thereby draw up guidelines for the functioning of both the government and the competent and parental committee to deal with EU affairs in 2005. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u25	Thank you, Mr. Kokal. I give the floor to Mr Joseph Jerovšk, Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Policy, to present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u26	Thank you very much. Mr President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, ministers and ministers. At its third regular meeting on 11 March, the Committee on Foreign Policy, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 154 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, considered as a competent working body the title material which, pursuant to the second paragraph of Article 5 of the Law on Cooperation between the National Assembly and the Government on matters of the European Union and Article 154(2), f, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, submitted the examination and acceptance of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. In the introduction, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr Dimitrij Rupel, presented both documents focusing on the issue of foreign and security policy and the enlargement of the European Union. I must say that today, Mr Minister has again been very comprehensive in informing this National Assembly of what the Committee on Foreign Policy has also informed, so I would not take up his debate on our Committee, of course, touch on all these enlargements of the European Union, stressing that Slovenia will continue to defend its position that, taking into account all the criteria and standards of the Western Balkan country, they have a clear European perspective. It has also, of course, touched on current issues concerning the enlargement of the European Union or the start of negotiations with the Republic of Croatia, the further status of Kosovo and, of course, transatlantic relations. In this he stressed that the visit of US President George Bush, on 22.2. in Brussels, gave new impetus to transatlantic relations. In doing so, the Republic of Slovenia is working towards constructive cooperation between the European Union and the United States of America. As today, he also stressed the particular importance of the Russian Federation as a strategic partner of the European Union. Finally, the Minister for Foreign Affairs presented Slovenia's preparations for the Presidency of the European Union. Following a brief discussion, the chairman of the Committee asked the Minister about the adoption of a constitutional treaty for Europe and certain pessimism, which was to occur in some Member States of the European Union in the autumn of 2006. It was also interested in the fact that the text of the priorities indicated that the Republic of Slovenia, as an advocate of human rights, would advocate concrete positive movements in the field of the lifting of the embargo, respect for human rights in China, without mentioning the issue of lifting the embargo on the sale of arms to China, which was one of the main open issues in the European Union's relations with China. And given that the position of the European Union here is different from that of the United States of America on this issue, whether there has been any harmonisation of opinions when the President of the United States visited the institutions of the European Union. In response to the first question, Minister Rupel explained that they are quite calm in the European Union with regard to the adoption of a constitutional treaty for Europe. Even in the UK, which is considered the main test stone. In his reply to the second question, he explained that, given the progress made in respect of human rights and the number of positive processes achieved in China, the European Union was inclined to lift the embargo on arms exports and strategic materials in China, but that decision had not yet been formalised. Committee member Jožet Školč wondered what the statement made by Prime Minister Janez Janša at the meeting with Secretary General Nato on the subject of Slovenian policy towards Iraq meant and whether it meant exceeding the current policy of the European Union towards Iraq. Minister Rupel explained that Slovenia, as a member of the European Union, will contribute to the implementation of the European Union's policy towards Iraq and participate in the training that will take place in third countries. After the discussion, the Committee adopted an amendment which is more technical in nature to decide on the positions of the European Union in its individual cases and to take into account, as a starting point, the guidelines and views emanating from the material of Slovenia's Priority for Work in the Council of the European Union in 2005, which is an integral part of this declaration. The adoption of the amendment, together with the amendment of the Committee on European Union Affairs, will be included in a joint proposal for a declaration which will form an integral part of both reports. After the discussion and the vote on the amendment, the Committee voted on the proposal for a declaration on guidelines for the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union in 2005, including the text of the priorities of the Republic of Slovenia for the work of the Council of the European Union in 2005, and supported it unanimously, with ten votes in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u27	Thank you, Mr. Jerovska. Ambassadors and Members of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia invite them to end the obstruction and return to the Chamber, as the presentation of the opinions of the members of the groups on the orientations of Slovenian-European policy begins. It is not good for Slovenian democracy not to hear the critical opinion of the biggest opposition party in such an important debate. Therefore, a presentation of the views of the groups of Members is to be made. First of all, Mr Jožef Horvat, who will speak on behalf of New Slovenia, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues, all present and well greeted! Today, two very important documents are before the National Assembly for the Republic of Slovenia, a proposal for a declaration of guidance for the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union in 2005 and Slovenia's priorities for the work of the Council of the European Union in 2005, which, according to the New Slovenia Group of Members, are a logical whole, as also concluded by the competent committees of the National Assembly, the European Union Affairs Committee and the Committee on Foreign Policy. The content of the declaration is further elaborated in the priorities of Slovenia. Its main purpose is to strengthen Slovenia's consistent functioning in the institutions of the European Union and thus contribute to the effective representation of Slovenian interests in the Union. In a comprehensive document, the government has presented all the important priorities that the country will pay attention to in European affairs this year. It thus identified the negotiations on the next financial perspective for the period 2007 to 2013, the implementation of the objectives of the Lisbon Strategy, the efficient use of Union cohesion funds allocated, the continuation of preparations for the takeover of the euro and the establishment of an external border, the continuation of the enlargement process and cooperation with the countries of the Western Balkans, cooperation between the European Union and the OSCE and preparations for the Presidency of Slovenia to the European Union. In New Slovenia, we agree that negotiations on the next financial perspective of the European Union are one of the most important areas of Slovenia's operations in the European institutions in 2005. Slovenia is working towards such an extent and structure of the next financial perspective of the European Union, which will, on the one hand, enable the Union to effectively face the challenges of internal cohesion, competitiveness and its further development in the coming years and, on the other hand, will allow Slovenia to draw more resources from the budget of the European Union than it will pay. For Slovenia, this is the most important arrangement in the area of cohesion policy, which will have to contribute to reducing the territorial, social and economic differences of the enlarged Union and thus enable the effective integration of the new Member States. The situation of Slovenia as a net beneficiary of the European budget is strongly dependent on the efficient use of the Structural Funds and the Cohesion Fund of the European Union in both the existing and the next financial period. The effectiveness of spending is, last but not least, one of the key arguments for the allocation of a favourable amount of cohesion policy funds in the context of the negotiations on the next financial perspective 2007-2013. In New Slovenia, we also stress as a priority the promotion of appropriate reforms that lead to the achievement of the objective of making the Union the most competitive in the world through investment in knowledge, research and development. We also underline measures to create an entrepreneurial environment, to promote investment to improve productivity and to strengthen key growth factors such as education, research and development, and transport and communication infrastructure, to improve the functioning of the internal market, to increase flexibility and efficiency of the labour market and to develop sustainable development. In Novi Slovenije we estimate that the documents under consideration have the right content. We are also convinced that in Slovenia, with the consistent implementation of the documents under consideration, our efforts will successfully focus on the fact that all citizens of the European Union will continue to discover the European pearl, Slovenia, a paradise under Triglav. There's obviously a lot of interest. If you are a Dutch architect, a Swiss pharmacist, a German brewery or a Spanish goods dealer, you can clearly discover interesting niche in various areas in Slovenia. So we remain a prepared site for European entrepreneurs and artists, and we can certainly offer Europe quite a lot. We just need to be careful that we are always aware of what we are offering and not allowing ourselves to swallow another hand at the fingertips, but that we are carefully monitoring the mutual benefit of new connections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u29	Thank you, Mr. Horvath. Mr Jakob Preseknik will speak on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u30	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, ministers and other representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The Declaration on Guidelines for the Functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the Institutions of the European Union in 2005 and, of course, Slovenia's priorities experience its first acceptance after Slovenia's entry into the European Union. In recent years, we have largely coordinated the legislation and institution of the country, now after entry, our task is to actively co-create a joint stay in the European Union, to join in the global global market and to join in solving global political problems, and not least that Slovenia will contribute its share to efforts to expand the European Union into our neighbourhood. Responsible institutions of the country of Slovenia are expected to co-create future European co-operation with the implementation of Slovenian priorities and to act not only as an enforcer of common agreed policies and to do so at home. The programme presented by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia was a good basis for dealing with the working bodies of the National Assembly and with the amendments supplemented by a good basis for the active participation of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union and the promotion and enforcement of Slovenian interests. Finally: the Slovenian People's Party's Group will support the proposal for a declaration and the priorities of Slovenia in 2005. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u31	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Bogdan Barovic will speak on behalf of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues, colleagues, government representatives. Today we are talking about a declaration, a proposal for a declaration on guidelines for the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union. An integral part of this declaration means that we are also talking about it, but the second chapter is that of the Republic of Slovenia, and these are the priorities of the Republic of Slovenia. We adopt the Declaration for the first time on the basis of a law on cooperation between the Government and the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, and that is good. The Declaration means, and this is most important; a solemn declaration of principles and rights, or a political statement on international issues. Therefore, it is not as insignificant as it seems in terms of participation, non-participation, in terms of justification or ineligible absence or absence. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia stated on its working bodies, in particular on the working body of the European Affairs Committee: the central purpose is to contribute to the effective representation of Slovenia's national interests in the European Union. What else should we do in the Slovenian National Party than believe! But about this later in a chapter called the continuation of the enlargement process. In the area of financial perspective, the government said: Slovenia’s main objectives are to draw more resources from the European Union budget than to contribute. Here. But then: in the area of the Lisbon Strategy, the government said it was mainly about employment growth, but later on. The government said in the area of the enlargement process of the European Union, that is, the specific chapters set out in the declaration are: Slovenia supports enlargement, and the priority is enlargement or pre-accession negotiations of the Republic of Croatia. And it states in the declaration that it advocates such a way, taking into account all the principles that have been applied in other countries' past solutions. But I'll talk about it a little bit later. It's also about a constitutional agreement for the EU. The government says: Slovenia is for the implementation of the contract. Okay, we're all in favour of a contract, but one on the door to the nose, the other on the referendum, taking into account the 11 referendums that have already been announced. And now to the point. Dear colleagues and colleagues! It is important to know that the declaration means a solemn declaration of principles and rights. And we're going in order. Effective representation of Slovenia's national interests in the EU. These are the tasks and activities of Slovenia within the Council of Europe and the European Council. If we just move from chapter one or chapter one to chapter Continue the enlargement process on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, that is not the case. The proof is the continuation of the meeting of the European Affairs Committee after that meeting, when we have considered the declaration and, of course, its constituent part, this is the programme, when, despite many proposals from the new amendments, Slovenians have exceptionally adopted certain provisions which apply to the neighbouring country, if they do not need this and this. All those of you who were there can swear that this was the case. Financial perspective of the government: to draw more resources than to contribute. Until, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, this country and this government will not know where we are and what is going on, we cannot write and speak on the competent committees, I say, I say to the Committee on European Affairs that at NGC level 2 the Republic of Slovenia should be divided into two or three regions, or perhaps one: or either. It's not working! Why isn't it going? Let's let people know once. I asked clearly and loudly in June whether we will be net recipients or net contributors in the period 2007-2013, this country should negotiate the starting points for the financial perspective. This is a clear question for all of us. Current situation: the country's gross social product or the product of the Republic of Slovenia is slightly over 74%, which means that if the country of the Republic of Slovenia were one region and if we managed to survive this position in June, then let us remain one region. Unless we already know that we will not, at least it was from the talks, means that we must have Slovenia, the only starting point is not two or three, no, two regions no, three regions. The only starting point for three regions! But knowing that it will be the only one, if we divide it from the west to the east, the country to the three regions, that the only eastern region will be the one that will be the net recipient of cohesion funds, in particular, as well as structural ones. Slovenia, the country cannot afford to be a net contributor for the first or second year of its EU membership. He can't! There's two million of us. We've got, we've heard, a lot to do! And we can't write in a declaration that we don't really care about one, two or three regions, we can't! It is necessary to make calculations, it is necessary to say that we have a net social product of 74.25% and that in June we have to fight positions, that we have one region and that we will be net recipients. This government was not prepared, beautiful or ugly, nor to say or admit, nor had it had this information. We can't speculate and play if we've decided to go to Europe, we're going to Europe. It's a vague position on this level. If it were clear, it would be completely different, at least as far as the Slovenian national parties concerned and its opinion. The Lisbon Strategy. Employment growth. Yeah, who's against it? Nobody. We are the first in the Slovenian National Party, although we were Eurosceptics, but if we are already inside, who is the State of the Republic of Slovenia doing in the area of the transitional period for the labour force? [[...]] Nothing. Nothing and nothing! For example, Slovenia must employ, for example, again the Slovak labour force. Germany, Italy, France have acquired a transitional period and will not employ Slovenians. They won't! Is this about the growth of employment? We don't just talk inside this country, we know how we care! We must see Europe as a larger country. We cannot compare the internal relations between the country and the European Union, which we are, in one segment where we have our rights as a country. The enlargement process of the European Union is, of course, a chapter for itself. The Slovenian national party is absolutely critical in this area. Nobody in this country, nobody, including the Prime Minister, including the Foreign Minister, has and cannot have the right to put negotiations with neighbouring Croatia as a priority. She doesn't have it! He can't have it! Our position must be that the State of the Republic of Slovenia supports all negotiations with all countries that meet the conditions. Let me remind you, there are many of you who were here, what it was like when Slovenia joined the European Union. Remember 10 years ago. What Italy was doing and what Austria was doing with Slovenia. In zero, it demanded everything from Slovenia to nothing that Slovenia has done so that it can come and become a member of the European Union. Let's go, let's go! What are we doing? What are we doing? We allow it at the next meeting of the European Union Committee, even allow exceptions, all must be made by the neighbouring country. This isn't about Croatia. Who doesn't want me to move the Schengen border? We all do. But we said: yes, Croatia under all conditions except, except Not except! [[...]] It can't be! It can't be except for! In the Slovenian National Party, to tell you the truth, there were doubts or suspicions, or the claim that someone in the framework of a client policy is conducting talks with a neighbouring country, not within the country of the Republic of Slovenia. If the views of the State and the parties were the same, fine. However, in our view, a party policy within the European People's Party, or whatever you want, cannot force against the neighbouring country in order to gather. What's the point? What's in it for us? What happened to the Bay of Piran? Have we solved at least one problem? We were asked by the Italians and the Austrians, in fact, to do everything they had made up. Not to blackmail! We all want Schengen to move on. But everyone has the same conditions. Turkey was together with Bulgaria and Romania. I was there myself. Where'd she go? Get back! Another level lower than Croatia. And I'm not fighting for Turkey! "Conditions," as it says, "the enlargement process must continue to be the same for all." Not - except the opposition colleagues will confirm, we do not know how long we have fought over the amendment to write in this amendment such a dictatorship that would be acceptable for the neighbouring Republic of Croatia and for the country of the Republic of Slovenia. No one wanted to accept it. Why be greedy, why be down, why be - I don't know, I don't know. The whole of Europe has signaled that it is not yet time for pre-accession negotiations. All of Europe! We have therefore warned, without being identical to the other countries of Europe, that we should be reasonable and look at Slovenia's path and what it has done. I believe that the Republic of Croatia has done a great deal. Slovenia has also done a great deal, and we were at the last meetings before Slovenia entered the European Union, but they said: yes, but! In the field of law, you haven't done enough of the backlog of the trials. And then some Hercules came along, and I don't know what kind of programs to coordinate it. The same applies to all other countries. And we cannot write in the 2005 declaration that we support only one country, but no matter what cooperation with the countries of the Western Balkans is written. Since the dictatorship in the declaration 'continuation of the enlargement process' can mean: what if it happens - I mean - that the Republic of Serbia and Montenegro today reach the level that they are in the same position as our neighbours? I'm talking to you. This "continuation of the enlargement process" means that we support only Croatia and no one else; others then forward, Turkey and so on. It's not working! We cannot enter into a declaration that, once again, I stress the solemn declaration of principles and rights and the official declaration of one country on international issues, we cannot put something like this in the declaration. We can't and we can't! With regard to the Constitutional Treaty for the European Union. Okay, we were the third to ratify the Constitution for the European Union; that was the will of this Parliament or part of this Parliament, not all of us, and we did it. And it is right that we are in favour of implementation, but this implementation of the Treaty is, as stated on the Committee on European Affairs: we will do our utmost to convince other countries to support the Republic of Croatia, the neighbouring Republic, in order to start pre-accession negotiations. Sorry we didn't make it, as we can see, the results are here today. We failed, but if the same story is true, what if one of those 11 countries can happen, believe me, look at the low declaration, the Nice declaration, how it happened, the story with Ireland, for three years. What happens next? Slovenia will chair the European Union. True, I believe that at the foreign ministry they are preparing to form certain groups, I believe. But to whom is it clear today whether Slovenia will preside with two countries, either alone or in a so-called troika? Who knows! And believe me, of the eleven countries that will hold referendums, not all referendums will succeed, at least in one country certainly not - in Britain it is very sceptical. And then we'll be the ones -- we'll, if we do, we don't know that today. It's dangerous to write such things in a declaration. We do not want anything bad in the Slovenian National Party, we were Eurosceptics, we remain Eurosceptics and Eurorealists, but if we once adopted the rules of the game, let's stick to them all! Let's stick to them, please, everybody! The declaration, along with this program, you know, is not such an innocent document, it's binding! If we accept it today, it is binding as well as accepting the euro - who is not in favour? We're all for it! We are all in favour of having a single currency once, not to trade dinars for euros, not to change currency all over the world; but, again, I say, but, in the back, people, there is a social and financial policy that must bring about an increase in economic development and productivity and an increase in income, because believe it or not, from experience today costs one coffee anywhere around half the euro, believe me, when 2007 I give a banal example, the euro introduced in the Republic of Slovenia will not be half the euro, but one euro! Do you know what that means for 200 thousand coffees? Do you know what this means for the pockets of people who are on the edge of social life today who do not have social backing? This is not a demagogy, these are the facts that bring -- we all want to have the euro in 2007, but this euro must be strong, it must be like one euro in Ireland, I don't know, in other countries, except in three countries, Sweden, Denmark and Great Britain, which they don't want -- why not, I don't know. Allow me to conclude this and I ask you, Mr President, to allow, on the example of the Government, the presentation of the opinion of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group by my colleague, Mr Sašo Pece. I'm talking about a presentation based on the time we have. Thank you very much for your attention. Once again, in the Slovenian National Party, colleagues and colleagues, with such a declaration, so loose that we have a whole programme behind us, we cannot agree.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u33	Mr Barovic, in order to present the proposaler or the opinion, the government has announced several names and those names have been taken into account. In your presentation, you are the only ones listed and we cannot involve others.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u34	Mr President, I understand you, but in my documents, which I had on presenting the views of the Government, the views of the Committee, the Committee on European Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Policy, three names were mentioned, the Prime Minister, the President of the Committee on European Affairs and the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Policy, but I did not have them, but I took this example as an opportunity, given that we did not have written information.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u35	Thank you. We continue to present the views of the groups of Members. Mr Vili Rezman will present the position of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Mr. President. All those who endure, my greetings to you. And let me begin by saying that, given the fact that everyone who spoke today has mentioned the importance of this meeting today, the question arises in the air: is it really so important if almost half or perhaps even more Members and Members are not here? It seems as if the practice of sitting in the foyer and wandering the parliamentary corridors will become more important than working in this Parliamentary Chamber. But we need cooperation and partnership, like the European Union, like Slovenia, we need to point out as the fundamental objectives of cooperation, partnership, reciprocity, mutual assistance, peace, stability, so that we can achieve some fundamental objectives, however. And these objectives include, first of all, preserving what is possible, starting from the other end, because it is usually first said what needs to be done for the economic race. So, to preserve what we already have, whether it's a culture, an identity of ourselves, or that it's a preservation of the environment in general and of nature in particular. Secondly, what is very important is, of course, economic development in a positive sense, because the growth of eoips itself does not in itself mean a positive shift. And the third, which is also one of the fundamental objectives for us in the European Union, I think, not only here in Slovenia, is to make a better life for the welfare of people. All of this, therefore, is not possible to achieve a better life for people, beyond nature, beyond the preservation of the environment. Not without economic development and without highlighting the social elements of individual declarations, of course not, especially for those who are in a minority who are different and do not have the power to exercise their own interests. And of all the things I have just mentioned, we find something in the DeSUS Group of Members in the declaration and in the tasks ahead. That is why we will support this, actively supporting it, but we would like to say that we also have a specific position in this regard, mainly in two ways: for the first time in the implementation direction and for the second time in the substantive direction. With regard to implementation, as regards the application of what is now being written - and the declaration has been repeatedly mentioned - we must be aware that it is a matter of great diversity not only in the European Union but also in individual countries, but also in us; as for values as regards interests as regards objectives, so it will be very difficult to implement what we can easily agree on at the principal level. Therefore, it is necessary to set clear targets, it is necessary to find out what are the measures to be followed, and that, after we have done our own national programmes, we are also trying to do so. As far as content is concerned, it is true that the economy is important and that the economy, economic races, entrepreneurship, marketability, competitiveness and so on and without all this, of course, is not working. However, as we advocate an integrated approach, the social dimensions and dimensions of environmental protection must also be stressed. Unfortunately, we don't always find this in these documents. Let me just say that there is not one in the declaration between the ten addresses that would be on the subject of social measures or on the subject of environmental protection. However, there are many others who may also be implementing this, which I am stressing especially now, but it would also be good to stress this explicitly, explicitly, especially because many committees on which we have discussed these things from individual sectoral ministries have very often not been. The priorities slightly correct this, those topics which are not found in the declaration but more marginally. Let me just mention that a more binding, more firm attitude is needed and that we can find a possible compliment in this way to read some other documents at the same time. Let me just read the title of what the Commission set for 2005-2009 as a strategic programme and it says that it is a partnership for European prosperity, for prosperity, for solidarity, for security and that the fundamental objectives are long-term prosperity, solidarity, social justice, freedom and an increase in quality of life. And when we accept these declarations, we will, in fact, only be at the beginning of the path that we need to take. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u37	Thank you, Mr. Rezman. Mr Milenko Ziherl will speak on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u38	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Nice greetings to representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues and those present in the Chamber. I am pleased that we are considering these two documents on today's two important anniversary, the anniversary of the birth of General Rudolf Maester and the first anniversary of Slovenia's accession to NATO. We have considered the priorities and declarations on the committees and on the home committee. The discussions were quite boisterous, sometimes very active, constructive, and this means that there was a great deal of interest in both documents. In the next financial perspective, we expect that the European Union's origins will be quite difficult, as some countries insist on 1% of the gross social product as a contribution to the common fund, while Slovenia's target for which Slovenia stands is 1.14%. Then there were doubts as to whether we would still be net payers or net payers after the enlargement, as a result of the so-called statistical impact could fall and as a region, Slovenia as a whole, could fall among net payers, but we have the latest assurance that Slovenia can be organised in 3 statistical regions under the NUTS2 system, irrespective of the 2003 directive, which defines it more precisely. Slovenia has free hands now until 1.1.2007 and, if the need for reorganisation appears, under the NUTS2 scheme, in order to be able to join. The Lisbon Strategy is also a priority. The European Union has found that it is lagging behind the most competitive economies in the world, and this backlog began in the 1980s and continued in the 1990s. Thus today's gross social products, products in the largest countries, such as Germany, France and Italy, are lagging 30% behind the lowest. The Lisbon Strategy has set itself the goal of making the European Union the most competitive and dynamic and knowledge-based economy in the world by 2010, which will ensure full employment and economic and social cohesion. The interim status report, the so-called Kok report, showed that the measures of the Lisbon Strategy were not being implemented and the Luxembourg and British Presidency therefore wanted to give new impetus to the implementation of the Lisbon Strategy by preparing a renewed Lisbon strategy. One such event was also a meeting with representatives of parliaments of all 25 Member States, where they wanted through parliaments to influence their governments to advocate a renewed Lisbon strategy. At this meeting, the biggest debate was on the Services Directive, which could somehow be a renewed even challenge, as greater competitiveness from the new accession countries to the Fifteen could lead to some social movements, some willingness to education, and thus give the Lisbon Strategy a new impetus where there is some skepticism. From 25 countries, we have heard 25 different views on the Lisbon strategy, which was to be expected, because each country has just left its origins. We support the renewed Lisbon strategy, particularly because they have identified priorities more. A three-year report on the state of the Lisbon Strategy will also produce better results. Well, within the framework of the tasks, there is also a common agricultural policy and fisheries where we have the opportunity to obtain certain funding from rural development and funding from the common policy. I'd like to mention expansion. We support the signing of the accession treaty with Bulgaria and Romania and the opening of negotiations with Croatia and Turkey. Although the start of negotiations with Croatia has been postponed, it is hoped that it will continue as it has been said that the Commission of Luxembourg, Great Britain and Austria will examine the state of Croatia's cooperation with the Hague court. Well, in the Constitutional Treaty for Europe, I think that our country can be an example to others or an incentive, because, as we have heard, there will be a referendum in eleven countries and a story from Slovenia can have a positive impact on these countries. We will therefore support in the Slovenian Democratic Party the proposal for a declaration on guidelines for the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union in 2005 and the proposal for priorities prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The activities envisaged are extensive and difficult, making them transferable in the coming years. Within the framework of the proposed guidelines, there will be a need to respond quickly if there are changes in the world that will require the completion of the objectives set. As support at the time of entry into the EU has been large and implemented on the basis of a political consensus, we expect that this climate will also be so in the context of Slovenia's further activities within the EU. Slovenia has the opportunity to participate actively as a full-fledged member in the first year. All political groups, civil society or so-called social partners, will need to be involved in the successful implementation of the activities of the priorities and declarations in order to participate as actively as possible. As we consider the proposal for priorities and resolutions to be a good one, the Slovenian Democratic Party's delegation will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u39	Thank you, Mr. Zichrl. Mr Franc Horvat will speak on behalf of the United List of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u40	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear representative and representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues and others who are accompanying this debate! First of all, I would like to say that Members and Members of the United Nations Group of Social Democrats will support the updated proposal for a declaration and a programme of priorities for the government's functioning in the EU institutions in 2005. However, in terms of constructive opposition, we have made some concrete proposals and additions, we have also made them in the form of amendments, and we are grateful that many or most of them have been accepted, both for operating in EU institutions and for doing things at home. We are aware that it is a matter of dealing with very important content, on which to a large extent the realization will be justified by the high expectations of citizens and citizens of Slovenia in the first years of full EU membership. This will depend largely on the continued economic and social development of Slovenia and the well-being of its citizens and citizens. The current reading does not, in our opinion, diminish the fact that the European Parliament and the European Council have considered in the past days and, particularly encouragingly, have reached a strong consensus on the key issues of future development of the EU, in particular the Stability and Growth Pact and the Lisbon Strategy. With the agreements reached and the conduct of government representatives and our MEPs and Members, we can be pleased. Of course, the story with the adoption of a resolution in the European Parliament and with the conclusions of the Council is not over, but rather an encouraging starting point for further difficult activities. This fact increases the urgency of our consideration and in particular increases the responsibility of the Government, the National Assembly and others for the further development of the European Union and Slovenia. As colleagues and colleagues from the parliamentary group will discuss individual issues, I am focusing on some issues, particularly in the field of economics, finance and social affairs. And I'm going to focus on that in particular. [[in pomegranates]] "domestic tasks" of the Government, the National Assembly and others for the successful implementation of Slovenia's membership in the European Union. First, a few words about the Lisbon strategy. An agreement on a new start to the Lisbon strategy is a joyous one. This is without exaggerating the crucial issue of the existence and development of the enlarged European Union and the well-being of its citizens and citizens. In assessing the causes of the failure of the 2000 conclusions, which has also been a major reason in our public, professional and general, in addition to taking into account the changed international circumstances and the pre-optimistic objectives in the short or too short term, the fact that the ambitious objectives were not followed by the European budget, which was relatively reduced to 1% in those years compared to national budgets, and those objectives were not followed by policies, economic and other, at the level of the European Union as well as in individual Member States. It is obvious that, at last, both in the EU’s leading institutions and in the Member States, it is accepted that the enlarged European Union has no better alternative than the revised Lisbon strategy. It is necessary to relaunch this strategy, with a focus on faster stable economic growth and on ensuring more and better quality jobs, which is, after all, the objective of the European Constitution which we have ratified in this Parliament. This is not only a new hope, as some say, but our belief in the fate of the European Union and its citizens and citizens in an increasingly globalised world. There is likely to be no further corrective examination without fatal negative consequences. An integrated approach to sustainable development is important, by applying all three elements, economic, social and environmental. At the same time, cohesion policy is extremely important, economic, social and territorial. It is of paramount importance for the implementation of the Lisbon Strategy to reach a compromise on the Stability and Growth Pact. In disregard of this pact, even by the States proposing this pact, the Pact has become an objective obstacle to development, especially for growth, even though it is in its title; both are important, stability and growth. Therefore, change offers an opportunity, which is also important for Slovenia, because we urgently need faster economic growth. Slovenia already adopted a strategy for economic development years ago to a large extent covered the orientations of the Lisbon Strategy. The quality report on development that we have received before the recent, objectively and objectively assesses the developments so far and the opportunities for the future. We support the effective management of the Lisbon Strategy in the parliamentary group. It is necessary to adopt the national plan as soon as possible as envisaged by the Union for all countries in order to assume their most responsibility for the implementation of the strategy. We are committed to establishing as soon as possible the responsible and competent coordinator of the Lisbon strategy and development activities at ministerial level, because there is the highest responsibility for the government. We advocate timely consideration of key issues relevant to the development of Slovenia and the European Union in the working bodies of the National Assembly, including the new economic development strategy to be adopted by the Government in these days. In order to successfully achieve the objectives of the Lisbon Strategy, the involvement of social partners, NGOs and local and regional communities, science and others will be essential. It is more obvious - and, according to the European Commission's recent views, this should finally be clear to the greatest skeptics - that in order to successfully implement the Lisbon Strategy and, in particular, to make more efficient and more efficient use of the European Union's resources, the early regional organisation of the country will be necessary, and we are not allowed to be late. For the successful implementation of the Declaration and the Programme of Priorities, and in general for the successful implementation of membership in the European Union, cooperation and consensus between political parties, social partners, NGOs and others will be important. A few words about the financial perspective already mentioned. The leaders of the European Union also at the meeting mentioned earlier in the European Parliament, President of the Council of Junker, President of the Baroso Commission, President of the Parliament Borel, and also leader of the Lisbon Kok Group, although cautiously, rightly stressed that without an increase in the overall scope of the European budget, the revised Lisbon strategy would not be possible. This is confirmed by the practice and views of individual Member States, including the latest. Therefore, Slovenia must take a firm stand in the negotiations to increase the total volume of over 1% as close as possible to 1.14% or to the European Commission proposal. The fact is that the "old members" insist on sharing a European cake so far without increasing the overall scope of the European budget, in particular for the objectives of the Lisbon Strategy, such as science, development, education, cohesion, employment, therefore it is not realistic to expect a more favourable position for the new members and even for Slovenia, or especially Slovenia, regardless of its development. Effective acquisition and use of EU funds is one of the main tasks of the government and other institutions. More than alarming is the fact that after the very effective use of pre-accession aid, which was used there 97% and was among the best candidates who on average benefited only 63% of the resources available, there is a dramatic deterioration in the situation last year and even worse the situation at the beginning of this year. Poor pumping will be a bad way to negotiate a new financial perspective, because they will tell us, "What do you want, because you didn't even benefit from it what you could!" Just the desire to continue to be net recipients and even such successful negotiations will not be enough, this is confirmed by practice. It is therefore essential to ensure in particular the following - and this is the primary responsibility of the government and the government coalition - at government level, it is necessary to ensure effective organisation, coordination between the departments, to establish the responsible authority and the minister for this task. In addition to effective governance, it is essential to professionally strengthen government bodies to prepare programmes and implement the use of structural funds, including financial management. It is necessary to improve the effectiveness of the preparation of programmes at regional level, regional organisation, regional and local agencies and so on. It is a particular concern to focus on professional staff at national, regional or local level with the necessary knowledge and experience of the European Union's activities. In order to attract more EU funds, cooperation with neighbouring Member States of the European Union and with the candidate Republic of Croatia and with regions within the European Union will also be important. It will be necessary to continue with successful preparations for the adoption of the euro, with the assistance of the recent amendments to the Stability and Growth Pact. And to conclude, let me just say a few more words about the chapter of international relations, which will be discussed in more detail by my colleagues. Slovenia, through the Presidency of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe and preparations for the Presidency of the European Union, is gaining recognition, a great recognition and, above all, great responsibilities and opportunities at the same time. It is important to focus on strengthening cooperation between the OSCE and the European Union with a view to working together as closely as possible. The OSCE Presidency and later the European Union also provide a great opportunity for more effective cooperation and dialogue between the European Union and the United States and for the transatlantic dialogue with the Russian Federation and other countries and regions in the world. This is useful both for the EU, the global world and, in particular, for the enforcement and visibility of Slovenia and for the role of the European Union and the world. In doing so, we should not neglect the national interests and priorities of Slovenia, in particular the continued regulation of relations with neighbours. One of the priorities and opportunities should be, both within the OSCE Presidency and in preparation for the Presidency of the European Union, in the enlargement process of the European Union, in cooperation with the countries of the Western Balkans. This is in the interest of the region, the European Union and, in particular, Slovenia. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u41	Thank you, Mr. Horvath. There will be a debate between Members and Members. There's a Master Maja Potrat's word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u42	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Members and Members of Parliament, distinguished representatives and representatives of the Government! I would like to discuss those things which, perhaps from my point of view, are somewhat different in the context of what is an all-out support for the declaration of guidelines for the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union in 2005. I attach, like everyone else, that Slovenia is aware of the seriousness of the implementation of the Lisbon Strategy's set objectives. To ensure that all European institutions, as well as each Member, are committed to the implementation of these objectives, it is absolutely clear that they should clearly define increased economic growth and employment as priorities for the European Union's development breakthrough under the Lisbon Strategy. That's what it says in the declaration. And in this regard, I would like to clarify some of my views on the declaration, which has already received some answers in the debate on the declaration, and I have pointed to some things with my question. If employment is to be so high, 70% is forecast, then we should use all human resources. It is not only in Slovenia that the educational structure of the female part of the population is significantly higher than that of men, and I am also making Europe's efforts to ensure that this relevant educational structure is also followed by better employment opportunities for women. So I asked the government, on February 16th, why she gave up the prospect of running for the seat of the European Institute for Gender Equality. In the meantime, I also received an answer to this written question. In response, there are many things that are actually the result of the amendment tabled to the declaration. In response, the Government is pleased that the declaration now states that Slovenia will pay particular attention to the possibility of running for office of the European Institute for Gender Equality. The European Union Committee on Labour, Family and Social Affairs, and later the European Union Committee on Affairs, were given the impression that Slovenia would be able to run for office of the European Institute for Gender Equality. Although Commissioner Spiedla Ljubljano mentioned among the three potential candidates for this seat, the Slovenian government does not seem to attach such an important role to the future financial perspective of €53 million, as far as it is intended for the functioning of this institution, in order to make it appear necessary for it to have a slightly greater lobbying activity in order to obtain the seat of this European institution. Why do I find this very interesting? This is because everything else that can be heard from the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs is going more in a direction that does not say that this country will pay particular attention to the appropriate conditions for the compatibility of professional and family life to be a priority. On the contrary, how else can we imagine hearing a series of measures that only talk about how to promote family policy is less likely to be heard about what measures we intend to take to ensure that all that is necessary for the well-being of women in the workplace is taken care of; how this will be done, given that working time has changed, given that a lot has changed, but even we hear that government care for children after 3 years of age is intended, or should I conclude from this that care for children by 3 years of age will be left to mothers and domestic protection, which means that women, in particular those in better jobs, will become uncompetitive in the labour market. There is much more to be said about this subject, but let me refer to demographic data, because we always refer to demography because we say that no action will fail if we do not ensure that more children are born. Data for 2005 from one of the research institutes in Washington, D.C., as I mentioned earlier, suggest that Slovenia is one of the lowest among those European countries where a percentage of the female population is up to 15 years old. That's 13%. This means that, for this coming generation of girls, we expect them to address the deficit in the nativity that we are experiencing in these years. I would like to see that these girls are also given the same opportunity to have the same opportunities to combine their professional and family lives, and I am also asked whether the concern for women's reproductive health is in fact as high as elsewhere in Europe if some of the data from this same study are telling me what the risk is and what the maternal mortality is. For if we have achieved a relatively good condition with regard to the number of births of living children and have one of the worst infant deaths, this is certainly not the case with the health and life of the mother. And with these issues, it would be good for us to work at the research level and therefore I thought it was worth the effort to make it more effective and more active to advocate an institution for equal opportunities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u43	Thank you, Mrs. Patrati. Mr. Anton Kokalj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u44	Thank you for your word. The proposal for a declaration on guidelines for the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union in 2005 became one document on the proposal of the EU Affairs Committee and the Committee on Foreign Policy, including Slovenia's priorities for the work of the Council of the EU in 2005. The document that we are adopting today is a relatively general document that still leaves much of the government's manoeuvre at work in the world of ministers and the European Council. Nevertheless, a relatively poor knowledge of the issue related to the functioning of our country within the EU has been demonstrated in the consideration itself in the National Assembly. This is due to large-scale matter and also to the still over-accessibility of information to the wider circle, including to national parliaments. In fact, national parliaments depend primarily on the speed and efficiency of government work. Communication is established between us, but our assessment is too slow, for things follow each other very quickly. The time for decisions or to take opinions on government positions before the Minister goes to a meeting of the Council of Ministers may be examined by the competent committee for only one day, that is indeed difficult. It is even harder if the most competent people from the government cannot come to the committee, which is sometimes understandable. However, the procedure is pointless when, for example, at the time of the consideration of confidential material on the Committee, the same content appears in public as the position of the Republic of Slovenia. While the declaration does not speak of this issue, it is not because the formal procedure between the Government and the National Assembly is regulated by a special law, but for the successful and coordinated work of the State of Slovenia it is necessary to carry out this cooperation in practice to the extent that the shortcomings will no longer arise. Of course, Slovenia is not looking for the most appropriate way of cooperation between the government and Parliament in the field of European affairs. Most of the members, especially the new ones, are trying to find this path, but this is also conditioned by the culture of work of the state authorities, which is increasingly pragmatic, accurate and consistent from the south to the north of the EU. In Scandinavian countries, we know that Friday afternoon is not at all questionable for the work of the EU Affairs Committee and also for the work of other committees. At the same time, we know that, for example, in neighbouring Italy there is no such thing at all. We also have this year's year of testing the operation of last year's adopted changes within the EU. In this spirit, the problems have also been highlighted, and in this spirit I myself support this year's declaration of guidelines for the work of the Republic of Slovenia in the EU institutions in 2005. It is very important, however, that we monitor implementation closely this year, both at government and at other levels, and, on the basis of the findings for the following year, we prepare an improvement in everything that is necessary in order to also enjoy the fruits of our joint efforts in the great society of the European nations. On this occasion, I would also like to welcome the constructiveness of the United Nations Group, which remained in the debate, because in the past, we know that there has always been great unity and cooperation among the opposition at the same time with regard to European themes. That is why I also call from this city for the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia to remember the times when it had to negotiate itself and when it needed support. This is about Slovenia, and in fact there is no place for politicisation, as has been said many times before. In this regard, it is also important to establish more concrete cooperation between the Government and the National Assembly on the promotion of the European Constitution. I do not think it is time for us to fear that the European Constitution will not go through the referendums. While we must be prepared not to go, we must do everything we can to help us through these procedures. We know that a whole lot of consultations and cooperation on key topics relating to the further development of the European Union are taking place at the level of the European Parliament. And it seems to me that this is also very relevant to the realization of what we have written in this declaration. Next week, the debate of the European Parliament's national parliaments in Brussels will focus on the next financial perspective and three weeks on the Stability and Growth Pact. And in this context, I call on all members of Parliament to try to devote themselves more to the content required by the European issue in their home committees. The European issue is no longer an external issue, which has become a very strong and very important internal topic. And in this context, I also thank the ministers who have stayed here today in this debate because they are also giving us a signal in some way that they want to work with Parliament in advance and also to solve things that will be difficult for Slovenia sometimes; we know that Slovenia is currently at the forefront of the financial perspective, because it does not know exactly how the matter will develop further. And here I think that cooperation between Parliament, especially our committee, and the government is extremely important. The topic of the Lisbon Strategy, which is currently very noticeable, requires - for the first time in the history of the European Union - cooperation on the lower levels of European institutions. I think that for the first time, the European Commission has turned directly to national countries, to national parliaments, because it is simply no longer a matter. And I think it is very important that, within the national parliaments of countries, we put the problem or further development of Europe - currently expressed as a tool, the Lisbon strategy - to the lowest possible levels. I call on the government itself to consider including the municipalities in the preparation of the Lisbon Strategy's objectives, and this very serious and intensively, and to make it known to citizens, in an appropriate way, that it is indeed about the future of us and our children. The matter that we can see in the debates in Brussels is actually more serious than we sometimes think. In this context, I think it is fitting to draw attention to the fact that in the past it has not been done enough to draw funds from European funds where they could be. Of course, I would have expected, as I mentioned earlier, from the current opposition to cooperate here and to try, based on its experience, to correct what may not have been managed in the past. In particular, it is about helping to regulate those instruments that will ensure that we are significantly more successful in the field of finance than we were in the past. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u45	Thank you, Mr. Bones. Mr. Sasha Pece has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u46	Respectable presence, those who are in the hall, and those who are in front of the microphones. Allow me to speak myself in connection with today's continuation of the meeting, in connection with the point of course. I will therefore see that I do not violate the rules of procedure, which I would not, of course, allow. I must admit that I have never realized that I have the power to influence that one third of the national assembly does not participate in the meetings of the national assembly. If I had known that in the past, in the previous term, then I would have used my power in any way when I proposed a criminal code, i.e. a law that would further sanction rapists and pedophiles. Because the fact is, if I knew about it at the time, this law would be adopted today, because it was in the Liberal Democracy and the United List that opposed it. There have been many other laws that I personally consider to be very reasonable if then certain political parties that are obstructing today are not present. However, as for the events themselves and today's reason, as announced by Mr Tone Rop, for their obstruction, otherwise, according to my assessment, a completely inappropriate obstruction at this point, when we are talking about an extremely important matter, I must also as Saša Peca, as a Member, and as Vice-President of the National Assembly, say just one short matter, so I will not be indebted. The rules of the National Assembly must apply to all. And it is time for these rules to be learned also within the framework of the Liberal Democracy Group. If someone is violating the rules of procedure, of course he should be told. And allow the final matter, as an apology, which has been made by the media to me, I emphasize, by the media. You know, it's hard to take an apology as a voluntary request if it's not even addressed to it. The Liberal Democracy Group addressed the request for an apology to the media and to another part of the leadership of the National Assembly. I estimate that if anyone seriously expects an apology from me, at least that apology would be addressed to me. But not that way. And for that very reason, I see that it's all about filling the media space. In my opinion, it's very incorrect. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u47	Mr. Pece, please stick to the point.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u48	Way to go. [[...]] However, to all those who are trying to misuse maliciously, at least last week's event, I hereby conclude, please read Rule 79 of the Rules of Procedure, which speaks of removal from the sitting. Among other things, you have also voted in the framework of the Liberal Democracy Group, the United List and some other parties, so, gentlemen, the rules that you have adopted are adhered to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u49	Thank you, Mr. Pechet. Mr. Yes has the floor, procedurally, Mr. Potsch. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u50	I'd like to ask you to explain. Was this a debate under the agenda item? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u51	Mr Potč, there has been so much talk today about all other things, but not about this point, so I would like it to end with procedural matters and with the questions of the Rules of Procedure. You also spoke not of a procedural question, but of a long and wide explanation of your dissatisfaction with my leadership, and I did not interrupt you. Mr. Only Bevk has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u52	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! I will, of course, stick to the agenda item, this is a proposal for a declaration on guidelines for the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union, and I will not abuse the rules of procedure, so I ask that you, Mr President, take the practice into your own hands and run the National Assembly by the Rules of Procedure. Large economic and social disparities in development between individual regions and countries hamper the sustainable development of the community as a whole. This is what the European Union has learned very early, so decades ago it started implementing the so-called cohesion policy and one of its priority economic policies. To achieve these objectives, a total of 35% of the European budget is now available in the European budget. Slovenia has also become acquainted with cohesion policy in the years leading up to its accession to the European Union. Thus, our country, like other acceding countries, has received so-called pre-accession assistance from the European Union in the form of Phare programmes and pre-accession instruments Ispa and Sapard. The European Union's pre-accession assistance had yet another important objective, namely to prepare new members for a more efficient absorption of the Structural Funds and the Cohesion Fund. With the end of Agenda 2000 at the end of 2006, the current financial framework for the cohesion policy of the European Union, which allocates €213 billion to economic and social cohesion in the period 2000-2006 for the Structural Funds and the Cohesion Fund and €22 billion for pre-accession assistance and €22 billion for structural assistance to new members, a total of €257 billion. We can all agree that these are extremely large funds. With effect from 1 May 2004, the Republic of Slovenia has been given completely new opportunities to draw funds from European funds, so it is clear that the priority of the Republic of Slovenia since then is to effectively draw on the Structural Funds of the Cohesion Fund of the European Agricultural Guidance and Guarantee Fund and the Schengen resource. It will depend largely on the ability to draw on those funds effectively, whether Slovenia will also be a net beneficiary of the European budget by the end of 2006. The so-called pre-accession aid has benefited the Republic of Slovenia at both the state and local levels in the good 10s, and even very well compared to other acceding countries. If it is to believe in data, in the period before 1 May 2004, when it became a full member of the EU, the Republic of Slovenia took advantage of this aid by 97%, while the average for 10 new EU members was only 63%. It is right that we will be able to boast at least about that high a percentage in the future. The effectiveness of spending is, last but not least, one of the key arguments in the declaration for the allocation of a favourable amount of cohesion policy funds in the context of the negotiations under the next financial perspective 2007-2013. I will support the 2005 Declaration on Guidelines for the Functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the EU Institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u53	Thank you, Mr. Bevk. Mr. Ivan Grill has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u54	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr President of the National Assembly, distinguished ministerial assembly, colleagues and colleagues! On 1 May 2004, Slovenia became what Slovenian citizens wanted for many years: we joined a group of countries that are closest to us both in the field of culture and in the field of our mentality. Unfortunately, we have been far behind in the economic field in these past decades, and today this difference is much greater than it was decades ago. However, we are facing a whole new set of opportunities today to ensure that we are able to reduce this gap. We have real opportunities to get close to the EU's most developed members in due course. Why do I call the most developed? The EU's statistical indicators of development, as a whole, may have declined with the latest enlargement and will also be further reduced by the entry of the new countries, as all these new countries are also severely lagging behind Slovenia, so in Slovenia we must aim to bring the EU's most developed countries closer exclusively to the average of development. Of course, we must also follow in this respect the preservation of European criteria for social society and the preservation of a clean environment. Slovenia now has a unique opportunity to actually get closer to its objectives. I am pleased that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has also been aware of this and has made this very clear in the documents presented with the title of the Republic of Slovenia's Priorities for Work in the Council of the EU in 2005 and in its Declaration on Guidelines for the Functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the EU Institutions. For both documents submitted, it is also of particular importance to me that the two documents follow the operational programme of the Council of the European Union for 2005. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in its proposal for a declaration of guidelines for its operation within the framework of the European Union, puts 10 priorities at the forefront of which Slovenia will work towards the best possible realization in the coming months. I believe that these priorities are good, completely realistic, actually feasible, but also particularly measurable. Surely one of Slovenia's most important priorities, as we have heard many times today, is the implementation of the Lisbon Strategy, which, in the light of the 2000 content, is now possible to measure it in achieving its objectives. This seems important to me, and also that Slovenia takes into account the development strategy of Slovenia when drawing up its national action programme for the implementation of the Lisbon Strategy. In its presentations of priorities, the Government has very clearly identified all activities in economic, cultural, educational, social, environmental, political and other fields. The priorities of Slovenia follow the objectives covered by the strategy for the development of Slovenia and are also taken as far as possible into account in the identified priorities of the European Union. The activities envisaged are extensive and difficult, which will make them transferable in the coming years, and it is also important to me that all these activities will also involve young people. I welcome Slovenia's support for the proposal for a new Youth Programme, called "Youth in Action", and the initiative to conclude a new Youth Pact. I am convinced that the objectives set can be achieved much easier if we include young people in these efforts. The successful implementation of selected priorities will certainly lead Slovenia in the coming period along the path of faster economic, technological innovation and social development, with a number of new quality jobs opening up to our young people in Slovenia. Since Slovenia now has the opportunity to participate actively as a full-fledged member in the first year, it is right to involve all political groups and civil society in this project and to participate actively. I fully support the proposal for a declaration on guidelines for the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the EU institutions in 2005, with a proposal for priorities prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u55	Thank you, Mr. Grill. Mrs. Marjetka Uhan has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u56	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A respected government, Members and Members of Parliament. I will only touch on a few priorities, recommendations on the priorities of the Council of Europe as well as Slovenia in the field of agriculture. The agricultural sector is expected to become competitive, sustainable and to contribute to greater public benefit as it receives public funds, so it is written down. As long as we see agriculture in the light of mass food production, we can write off our competitiveness in Slovenia because we are too small. Thus, it will be possible to produce sugar beet in Slovenia, so it happens with livestock farming in individual areas that have been abandoned in a mass way, so it can also happen with other agricultural branches. Each agricultural reform has led to the collapse of many farms. Nevertheless, the remaining farms produce more food than all farms in the past, which means that the intensity of existing farms is increasing. This, on the one hand, can be the competitiveness of European agriculture and, on the other hand, organic farming is also a priority in these recommendations, which is contrary to this intensity. In particular, we will give priority to organic farming, since in Slovenia, despite a decade of professional work, only 3% of such farming is fighting. I'm sure Slovenia has the possibility of expanding in this direction. I argue that such farming in Slovenia is significantly more, except that farms are not in the process of identification and registration due to the small size of farms, the cost of recognition and identification of such farming. Therefore, it would be wise to work on simplifying procedures and also to stimulate such farming. So far, it has been worth diverting to organic farming mainly to larger-area farms because they were stimulated to the surface. If, on the one hand, we have recommendations for organic farming, it is logical that recommendations for the absence of genetically modified organisms follow. Slovenia supports the absence of genetically modified organisms in organic food, while others support as low a threshold as possible as for regions that would be free of genetically modified organisms. Slovenia should advocate for the absence of genetically modified organisms, but be it for the whole of Europe, not for us to be smarter than the smart again, and thus for us to sew ourselves and our growers, and in Europe, or genetically modified organisms will be something everyday. And I can't imagine how these areas can be isolated today because we're dealing with living organisms because we know that miles and miles of pollen is being carried and so on. The whole region will be able to use organic seed, and in the seed produced it will be observed by the genetically modified organism, and such a farm will be punished or not recognised as an organic farm, and so on. The same is true of Natura. We have identified more than a third of the area under Natura in Slovenia. We limit farming to ourselves, but we can't take any more. I just want to say that genetically modified organisms are an extremely sensitive topic that can have extremely unpredictable consequences, both for health and for the economy itself, and a wider professional debate is needed in Slovenia before we decide. But I support thinking in this direction. I also support the proposed proposal that Slovenia advocate mutual recognition of the registration of plant protection products on the Slovenian market, because we now have an extremely narrow range of active substances, preparations for individual plant species or their diseases and pests. It applies in particular to products used in cultural plants which are produced to a lesser extent. Since we do not have registered certain products for these plants for financial reasons in Slovenia, it happens in practice that funds not authorised are used. Sometimes they are even toxic, but above all there is resistance, resistance, and unnecessary natural poisoning. I support Slovenia's priorities in 2005 with the proposed comments and, above all, to represent its interests in the negotiations, to take account of its natural characteristics and specificities into account, while at the same time not forgetting the unpredictability of nature. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u57	Thank you, Mrs. Uhanov. Mr. Janko Weber has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u58	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! In particular, I would like to stress that in the history of the Slovenian state, the government has far more powers than ever before. In the institutions of the European Union, of course, the government will have the power not only to try to prepare implementing acts but also to prepare material that will be the basis for legislation. In fact, the legislative and executive authorities have been given to this new government in the institutions of the European Union. This is a very important starting point. And when we talk about the Lisbon strategy being one of the key documents for the successful further development of the European Union, which is talking about increasing economic growth and employment, we should also try to achieve an appropriate social policy and environmental policy. Europe is therefore aware that successful economic growth and employment are certainly also interfering with the environment and possibly even with the reduction of social rights. Therefore, it seems to me that the government's work in this area will have to go in this direction in order to achieve a balance in this area in Slovenia, which will at the same time ensure comprehensive development. But not just urban development, because when we talk about cohesion funds, it means that we only talk about larger centres in Slovenia and that we forget about those other funds, especially the structural ones that can benefit from smaller places, smaller municipalities, more remote places. Therefore, there will certainly be a great deal of concern in Slovenia to be devoted to these funds. We also have a very important task ahead of us, the establishment of an external border of the European Union. This is one of the tasks that the other members or at least a large part of the members do not have before them. Of course, we will have it, and it will be one of the most important. However, I would like to point out that it is not enough at the external border to carry out only the construction of infrastructure and to carry out security and inspection controls, because there is also a perfectly normal life in this area, and in particular it will be necessary to ensure adequate conditions for this life to ensure jobs and that economic growth, despite these additional constraints, will be sufficiently encouraging for investors. I think that if the government actually wants to achieve the successful development of Slovenia, it will have to give a great deal of attention to this issue. If it remains only within these frameworks, as we can currently read in this document, then, of course, it will become a very big problem to settle mainly in the border area. I'd like to add the following. 35% of the Slovenian territory is included in Natura 2000 and it is not enough that in this document, although there are additions that have occurred on the basis of a debate on the Committee on Agriculture, to check and try to achieve in particular additional payments for environmental and countervailing measures, this is the area of agriculture, but I want to say that agriculture is one of the parts that can contribute to the settlement of the Slovenian countryside. It is also necessary to implement economic policy and employment policy in the Natura 2000 area as well as in all other areas. Since Natura 2000 is the farthest indeterminable document we have adopted in Slovenia before Slovenia's entry into the European Union, I would point out that, of course, in all its negotiations, the government faces this problem and if it turns out that Natura 2000 is in fact not an advantage, but, in particular, a great obligation to preserve nature, which, of course, can also result in reduced economic growth in these areas, a reduction in employment opportunities, thus resulting in rural emptiness, it seems to me that the Government will have to return this document to the procedure of Parliament of the Republic of Slovenia and then, with such an updated, revised document, approach to the negotiations that await the government in these relevant commissions that will deal with Natura. This segment seems extremely important to me, and sometimes we put it too much on the side, but it has a really very big impact, because 35% of the surface has no other European country that is included in the European Union in Natura 2000. Probably not because it would be an advantage, but mainly because it is a great obligation. If the government considers that this obligation goes beyond our capabilities, I really urge that a serious revision of this document be made and that we try to establish comparable starting points, as all other European Union countries do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u59	Thank you, colleague Webber. I invite my colleague, Joseph Jerovska, to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Two very important documents are before us for the position of Slovenia or for its functioning in the institutions of the European Union, which is a declaration and also Slovenia's priorities for the work of the Council of the European Union. These two documents are accepted as the basis for the functioning of the government and Slovenia at some important time, in an important year, because this is the first year of full implementation of our membership and at the same time the year of Slovenian Presidency in the organisation for European Security and Cooperation. This imposes special duties on Slovenian politicians and, therefore, it seems completely unreasonable to me that on such an important foreign policy topic there is solating, getting off the train of joint acquisition, the common foreign policy of Slovenia. There is no time for such solstice, gathering political points on foreign policy issues. In my personal opinion, this time is not yet here. Slovenia has very serious tasks, our country is facing a broader, public and not only European Union, but because of its OSCE presidency we have seen a recent crisis in Central Asia, where Slovenia has, of course, been engaged through this Presidency. As a result, a number of matters have been discussed at the Committee on Foreign Policy and the Committee on European Affairs during this period. It is legitimate, of course, that there have been different views on the committees, especially with regard to the enlargement of the strategy, the enlargement of the European Union, and in particular the current issue of enlargement or the start of negotiations with the Republic of Croatia. In a number of parts of the Slovenian public, Slovenia was dominated by the opinion that Slovenia could use dental policy here to return the blow to the Republic of Croatia and dictate what the Republic of Croatia was doing unilaterally, unilaterally with the so-called economic zone, with the Drnovšek-Račan border agreement, etc. Of course, it was one of the legitimate options. I think that the Republic of Slovenia and its foreign policy have rightly decided that it has taken pro-European policy forward and has not returned to these surviving patterns of foreign policy, but that it has also in some way learned or understood that the neighbouring Croatia is the hostage of the former Racan government, which was not credible in relation to Slovenia and not in relation to the Hague court. For this and many other enlargement issues, offering a European perspective to the Western Balkan countries, I must stress that many eyes are open to Slovenia. Our parliamentary delegation under the leadership of the President of the National Assembly was recently on a visit to Serbia and Montenegro, and I must say that, in fact, these nations, if not their own policies, expect much from Slovenia and therefore it is important that in the institutions of the European Union Slovenia sends the right messages to these places not only because of these countries as individuals but also because of our economic interests. Our economic interests are extremely important, which is why it is a very short-term policy that would only count on daily policy effects. For this reason, as Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Policy, I must express my regret, the great regret that today this unimaginable precedent has taken place, that a political party actually interrupts a consensus reached among political parties on cooperation in the field of the European Union. It was for approximation, but I think that this was in some way true, and that at that time, under the leadership of the then foreign president of the party, the Liberal Democracy also participated in this joint consensus. Today, this party no longer looks like it and goes into the area to announce obstruction at the point, which, in my opinion, is not wise or reasonable or is unimaginable precedent to go into obstruction because of a matter that they otherwise predicted. They predicted they would obstruct the meeting by holding a vice-president. During this time, they sharpened their attitude. It is probably precisely to make them exit from the common policy in the foreign policy area. I hope he'll take over his mind. For look, if so radically other parties have responded, then I must say that the foreign political committee has fallen terribly low from this party, the Foreign Minister of the Five-Colons, and so on. Where would it lead if all the customers behaved like that? Where would that lead? And I must say that this point has many international implications. For this reason, I reiterate my regret at this point that internal client points are being collected. I think we need to get ahead of ourselves. In view of the fact that this has happened, I think this is central, so I would not touch on other points which have been extremely extensively worked on by the committees. I conclude with the true hope that Slovenian policy is still very uniform with regard to the priorities of Slovenian policy in the world of Europe and the orientations of Slovenian policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u61	Comrade Jerovšek, thank you for your submission. Before I give the floor to the following, I would only ask all Members present and Members to leave a comment on the decision on the obstruction of the meeting or the continuation of the meeting to consider the item on the declaration of guidelines for the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the EU institutions in 2005 to the one who is conducting the obstruction, i.e. the Liberal Democracy. Please, if the following speakers adhere in particular to the content of the act before us. I'd like to take the floor with my colleague, Happy Friend.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u62	Mr President, thank you for your floor. Greetings to the government, colleagues and colleagues! The Slovenian National Party raises the obvious question of whether Slovenia is an equal member of the EU. The financial obligations of Slovenia are known. The OSCE Presidency and in 2007 and 2008 will also require a substantial part of Slovenia's budget. And if we are to become from a country that is drawing on funds, also a country that will donate funds to the European Community, it is also necessary to say that financial commitments will be significantly greater for Slovenia in the coming period than they are today. Of course, it is also necessary to mention that the ability of our government administration today to obtain the funds that the EU is currently offering. This ability of today's government is very small. We are losing millions of money in euros, and what is gained by not respecting what is agreed on, whether in project implementation or in this context, because we do not donate our resources, we must return many times. I myself have asked this question of the Member State, to which, unfortunately, I have not received an answer until today. Of course, Mr Janša's promises of employment are meant to be made in 600,000 jobs, which will be open to all new EU members. As a member of the Slovenian National Party, I am interested in how many of these jobs will belong to Slovenia or how much fresh capital the European will be willing to create a new added value in Slovenia. It's about promises that are just promises. In the Slovenian National Party, we would like to have clear answers when we talk about what is positive, to also indicate what will be negative. The likeness of the adoption of a constitutional treaty for the EU has been quite clear on our part. We believe that this constitutional charter is not compatible with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, because it can bring further complications. And on this point, even the constitutional court seeking answers to these questions cannot answer or receive this answer in a short time will bring new dilemmas and new open questions. Of course, when we talk about how we will continue the enlargement process, it is also important to stress that Slovenia, as a member of the European Community, the EU, is not protected, is not equal in territorial inviolability. We know that there are already great excesses on the border, either with Croatia, Austria or Italy. Above all, the latest images of this piano picture show us that our foreign policy did not take the necessary steps and did not protect Slovenia's interests as it should. Days ago, a gentleman living just outside the border received a letter from the Croatian authorities [[Mr Škof Anton from Sečovlje 1, which is his house number]] That they're gonna tear his house down. Our official policy, although it has been informed, has not done anything until today; nor do I believe that it will do anything essential and that this house will also be demolished. It's Europe! We are in the European Community, the border issue with Croatia is not resolved, and we are defending Croatia's interests, and we even write this in a declaration as valuable as it is before us. When we talk about how Europe is helping us to do this, our thinking is very serious - Europe has not given us any support on any of these issues. So why be a european? More than a hundred reasons for being pessimistic in this area are why the Slovenian National Party, as has already been said by my colleagues, cannot support this declaration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u63	Thank you. According to a statement by colleague Martin Mikolič.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u64	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected government, respected colleagues and colleagues! The Declaration covers the Republic of Slovenia with strategic importance the most important areas to be discussed and decided in the institutions of the European Union this year. Our views and orientations in the functioning of the institutions of the European Union are clearly set out in the declaration. We can simply say that the declaration sets out the most important priorities that we will have to implement or defend as successfully as possible in the framework of the European Union this year, in particular in order to achieve our objectives and expectations and the common strategy of all the members of the European Union. Of course, we will only be able to achieve everything in the declaration through a transparent approach to the tasks that we must carry out in the European Union and on the domestic soil, such as the urgently needed European-oriented state budget - so that we can draw maximum European resources - or the elimination of a series of structural imbalances that make it impossible for us to achieve the objectives of the economic development strategy. The renewed Lisbon strategy, which we support, is that the European Union must focus on the fundamental tasks that are important for increasing growth and employment. The revised strategy does not mean neglecting the social aspect, as creating conditions for higher growth, a better business environment, opening new jobs and providing better jobs also reduce poverty and social disparities. In doing so, the transition to a knowledge-based society plays a key role, as investment in knowledge would make it possible to tackle the challenges of the future more effectively when it comes to employment and higher growth and updating labour legislation and social policies. Surely these are also challenges for the underdeveloped areas of the Republic of Slovenia, which are not today interesting for investment, economic development and thus for the creation of new jobs, due to the large infrastructure problem. I would like to reiterate the declaration's chapter on the efficient use of European Union funds that these funds could reduce the difference between developed and underdeveloped areas, but these regions or local communities will have to provide money for investments because without their own share you cannot run for tenders. These are facts that the government must be aware of. If the local community has a co-financed project of 75%, the local community must provide 37.5% because, as we all know, VAT is not included as a eligible cost. Therefore, together with quality projects, it is very important how individual ministries will coordinate in this and coming years with regard to the necessary funding for co-financing in the national or local budget, in particular due to the efficient use of European funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u65	Thank you. I'd like to take the floor with my colleague Aurelia Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u66	My colleague Peca, I will be extremely brief, given that you are in charge of this meeting and that I avoid the fate of my colleague Shirchev's last encounter, I give up the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u67	Thank you for your interesting position. We continue after the review or list of discussers, and I invite mags to the floor. John Kramberger. We continue to invite my colleague Bojan Kontic to the floor. He's not in the hall either. We proceed with the invitation of colleague Aloys Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u68	Respectable present. Thank you so much for saying that. There is very little time left for our Group of Members. I would also like to begin by touching myself that, in fact, the institution of obstruction has been in some way abused today. The holding of the meeting, which, according to my assessment, was in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, of course has nothing to do with today's debate. But each parliamentary group can make its own decision. If I only briefly touch on some of the discussions of the speakers, I should point out two. First of all, I would say that I have heard many good suggestions on the part of Mr Ferri Horvat. But it is necessary to say here that the previous government has not benefited well from the funds of the various funds of the European Union. Before this government, it is now a major task to actually correct this issue and to get more money from Slovenia from these titles. As far as the hints here are concerned, whether this government or why this government is not seeking a gender equality seat, Mrs Potrata, I could ask here what the Robb's government has done in this direction. The lady's not here right now. And, of course, I could say that this government is actually working towards the harmonisation of professional and family life. If any government in this area has started to do something and even properly presented these matters to this Slovenian public, it is in fact this government, which we named just over a hundred days ago. I have little time left, so I would touch myself in the context of the common agricultural policy, which, of course, as far as the European Union is concerned, meets one of the key issues and will also be in the future. In Novi Slovenija we have a lot of promise from this third pillar of the common agricultural policy. This is from the part about rural development. It is also about the rural area where I hope to say that people live significantly worse than they do in cities, at least in some of the elements more developed in the area of improving municipal infrastructure, and in particular that there will be an enormous emphasis on the development of complementary activities during this mandate. However, I am afraid, and this is my personal opinion, if such an enlargement of the European Union is to take place, as is planned, that Turkey, which is mainly an agricultural country, will begin to enter this process more intensively, so that, of course, at that moment, we are all counting on it slowly, most of this European money will not be diverted. About whether the contribution will be 1% or 1.14% [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] I will end immediately, from Mr Ferri Horvat, that the government must make an effort to do so, and of course I hope to say that we will not decide the Slovenians, but those who are much, much bigger. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u69	Thank you. My word to my colleague Barbara Žgajner Tavš.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u70	Thank you very much. I will touch Croatia in the beginning, but I really only touched it because in the introduction or in the introduction, one sentence stabbed me. Today, despite the clear position of the European Union, we hear that Slovenia's tendency is, and last but not least, the declaration, the concerted functioning of Slovenia in the European Union. Please! We are therefore in the ignorant attitude of the government, poor willingness or unwillingness to cooperate with the legislative branch of power in the consideration of such a very important document. I'll point it out one more time. There were no top government representatives at the meetings of the working bodies, as well as the large European Affairs Committee. Although the content of the Lisbon strategy, employment policy, economy, cohesion and so on has been decided. For the future of Slovenia, themes of extreme importance. And then it looked something like this. The representative of the SVEZ is proud that Slovenia has acquired more funds in the past than it has paid. However, he overlooked the important fact that in 2004, Slovenia had used up or spent only 7% of the funds allocated from various Slovenian funds. Finally, for about 17 billion tolars, for which projects have already been approved on the programming boards, Slovenia has not yet submitted payment requests to the European Commission. The net financial position of Slovenia is unsatisfactory, was one of the sentences in today's opening presentation. That's what the data says. Sadly, however, the government or the competent service does not know how this will take place in the area of the future financial perspective. Today, the government does not know what is better for Slovenia, one, two or three regions at NUTS level 2. The government representative's explanation, I quote: "at this point, Slovenia is probably not worth regionalising at NUTS 2." Power is interesting. It's only the government that analyzes today. There is also great criticism for the former Minister for European Affairs, who has stalled, and today he is a great messenger and advocate of the three regions. Finally, we have also heard the United List today talk about an unacceptable delay in the formation of regions. Funny, the fact that they didn't finally have politics in their hands. Yeah, it's true. The data show that the division of Slovenia into three NUTS 2 regions is in fact a very important protection for Slovenia to obtain funds specifically from the Cohesion Fund. Then who's cheating? The Prime Minister also mentioned the Services Directive. Those who are supposed to protest against this directive are expected to protest against new jobs. New jobs in the most competitive countries. It would be interesting to get, say, information on how many jobs the EU has brought to Slovenia. I am aware of the data on the migration of Slovenian production to foreign, more competitive markets, the new unemployed due to non-competitiveness due to the EU, and could even mention it. There's one more thing I'm going to mention. At first glance, it is only about the word game, and the point is important. The declaration states: Slovenia places particular emphasis on measures to extend the working age of older workers between 55 and 64 years of age. There was no Minister of Labour on the Committee which considered the declaration in this part. The ministers' representatives do not know whether it would be better to say work activity. And if then there's a fear that retired workers will have to work hard to survive their retirement until, I don't know, xy years of age. The government will consider this was the answer to the parent’s working body. I don't really have time anymore, so I'm going to finish, but I still have a lot to say concretely about the declaration. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] From what I've seen and heard, it's hard to say that the government knows what's good for Slovenia. I'm not going to say that the government doesn't know what it's doing. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u71	My colleague Tavš please, if you finish, for the first time.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u72	I'll finish, I'll just finish the sentence. [[...]] It is likely that citizens and citizens will be the first to experience not [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u73	Colleague, please finish, another time. I'll take your word for it for the third time.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u74	Thank you very much. I just wanted to finish my sentence. [[...]] I certainly can't pin it on or support it. [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u75	We continue the debate. On the basis of the applications, colleague Kristian Janc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u76	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Government representatives, colleagues and colleagues! I must say that much has already been said in today's debate about such an important document as the declaration and also the priorities of the Republic of Slovenia in 2005. Many written, many important goals, what Slovenia will do this year, and there are certainly great expectations of the Slovenian government, including the National Assembly, especially the new coalitions, how it will be part of this challenging task. Slovenia is on an important test. This is the first year in this story in the European Union that we will step on this hard real ground and, of course, slowly come from the big words how nice it is, how nice it is, how happy we are when we are in the European Union. However, citizens and citizens expect results. The results will be those acts that count, and voters and voters will also judge us by these acts. I am confident that we will be able to achieve all these priorities, which are few, in this document to the fullest extent possible. In particular, I think of some who seem very important to me, they are Union cohesion funds. We have been here so far, ladies and gentlemen, more or less unsuccessful. Whether we will be more successful in 2005 and will be able to draw as much resources as possible for less developed regions, which are quite significant in Slovenia. I come from Posavje and we must be among them. I hope that the country, I hope that local communities, social communities and other carriers will be more successful, so that we will team up well people who are familiar with this preparation of documents that are very difficult, precise and many times inaccessible to certain local communities. I hope that we will join forces, energy here and really be very successful in this story. We are talking a lot about economic development. It seems to me that this is a story that is at the heart of every country's success, every local community, every region. We've got some hard work to do here. Many societies, many industries, are rushing into decline, the number of unemployed is rising, especially those with lower education, restructuring will be difficult, in short a difficult area to deal with, and the state has promised a more environmentally friendly environment to Slovenian entrepreneurs, a more burden-reduction, in short, that friendly environment for each new entrepreneur. Whether we succeed in this will depend primarily on this government and this Parliament. Employment is an extremely important thing, which is so well-written. I fear that this will be rather unrealistic and difficult for the whole of Europe and Slovenia to deal with, however. Agriculture. We've heard from him before. This is our advantage, rural development, to keep at least that part of those who insist in the countryside, because there is also an increasingly empty Slovenian countryside and here I see one opportunity if we succeed in stopping at least a part of it and ensuring that the minimum conditions for Slovenian farmers to stay where they are, so that they will not all escape to the larger cities and thus further empty the Slovenian countryside, landscape and everything that belongs to them. I think we have an important and responsible mission here. This is what the European Union is offering, and it is up to us whether we will take advantage of this together with the country, the municipalities, the regions and so on. It is my great pleasure that we have also made one important unanimous decision in this national assembly to enable Slovenia to preside over the European Union. This is certainly a great recognition of this young country in the European Union and of course a great opportunity. I hope that this demanding project, perhaps the largest in Slovenia so far, will also be successfully implemented in 2008. Don't make me say it again. I think at that time, we're going to work to establish a team of those people who know, know, and are going to be able to carry it out. Those citizens and citizens, who are not few today on the verge of living hard to find a job, do not find it, even in those environments where I come from, and every day I am in contact with many people, but I hope that this government and this national assembly and this story will take a step forward, for which it ultimately has this support, has this support to come forward. There will be a lot of synergy, a lot of partnership, of reciprocity, and above all hard work to make sure that future generations of Slovenes and Slovenians live in this part of Europe, where we live, which is certainly the most beautiful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u77	Thank you, Comrade Janc. My word, Mrs. Bredo Pecan.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u78	With regard to the declaration, I would stress four key points, in the framework of the Lisbon Strategy and the negotiations on the next financial perspective. In the context of both points of the declaration, I would like to stress that the Government should pay particular attention to the Green and White Paper on services, in particular services of general interest, in terms of the distinction or substantial understanding of the difference between services of general interest and services of general economic interest. It is about ensuring that there is no competition in the field of services of general interest, which are largely within the competence of regions and municipalities in all the countries of the European Union, that is why we have no regions, so that we have services of general interest in the implementation of municipalities, so that municipalities are joined together by establishing public companies and public institutions that provide these services of general interest, while services of general economic interest, which the European Union has defined long before Slovenia became a full member, are already leaving to competition, liberalisation and, above all, privatisation. It is said that we do not allow even in Slovenia the monopolistic position of telecommunications, electricity, transport, energy and so on, other energy, except electricity. I believe, however, that the government in this area of services of general interest - this is not only about compulsory education and basic health care services, but also a whole range of other services which are not provided by the Slovenian Constitution, but also by the constitutions of other countries, but which could have appeared in a competitive fight in the European market through the logic of the European Union. However, here the situation of the provinces and in particular in our municipalities is too important for these services to actually be carried out in the interests of users in particular, it is said that they are accessible, that they are also affordable and that they are generally widespread. It is therefore necessary to ensure that services are of general interest and to ensure that local communities and regions can decide on these services, as regards the management, financing and provision of the basic infrastructure needed for them, but not be subject to a competitive fight throughout the European Union. The second area I would like to draw attention to, and this is particularly with regard to the Lisbon Strategy, is the organisation of working time. On the Committee of the Regions, we have already discussed the new vision of the organisation of working time within the European Union on individual commissions. The fact is that it appears, I can say, very conservative, if not even back in time, a reverse philosophy of understanding the organisation of working time. 48-hour worker [[weekly]] , which was the beginning of the 20th century for workers, now suddenly, due to a very liberal understanding of the organisation of working time, it is possible that the shift in working time within a narrow time zone may extend to 70 hours per week. I believe that this way of understanding the organisation of working time in the context of the tradition that we have in Slovenia, while protecting the rights of workers on the basis of the labour law and collective agreements that we have in Slovenia, of course, is unacceptable, unacceptable to us, and I think that the Ministry of Labour in the individual commissions dealing with this subject should require that the organisation of working time does not repress but progress. It is said that the achievements that have been achieved in the organisation of working time and in the allocation of working time achieved in the past century would not be lost because employers want to have free working time for their employees, as they do at that time. That is why I think it also explains that working over regular working hours is a matter of decision by every employee, that those workers who come into a working relationship are in the initial working relationship that they want to earn more, and therefore it is right to allow them to go far beyond the agreed working hours of 48 hours a week. These are all the very clear intentions of employers who want, not only with working time, but with the lifetime of workers at their disposal. I believe that Slovenia has certainly achieved a very high level of workers' rights in this regard and should also preserve and defend these rights from, I will say, according to domestic, capitalist, neo-capitalist "lesefer" methods that are born in the European Union, in particular in the United Kingdom. The third thing I would like to point out is that the Cohesion Fund and the Structural Funds have already adopted a Regulation on the European Fisheries Fund, which will be in operation in 2007, and is ready for a new financial perspective 2007-2013, where Slovenia is given the opportunity today and not only in 2007 to participate in the use of these funds in order to revive and, in particular, encourage the re-development of sea fishing in Slovenia. In recent years, I hope that, not because of the government as a whole, but because of individual ministers and individual workers in individual ministries, there has been total chaos and disorder in this area, that fishermen, I can say, are fishermen, cannot talk, I cannot say this about freshwater fishermen and aquaculturers, that they are completely disoriented, that they did not even know what to do, that they will be able to maintain their profession, that they can continue what is for Slovenia, not only in my opinion, but in the opinion of many people, extremely important. The presence of fishermen at sea also declares, demonstrates our sovereignty in our territorial waters. If we do not know how to ensure that fishermen can continue their work, that at least in Slovenian territorial waters they can hunt freely and above all enough to survive themselves and their families, then I think we have no relation to showing clearly and without compromise that we are masters of our sea, even if it is small. Therefore, I believe that the country, in particular the Ministry of Agriculture, should, not only with its experts, but also with the intensive involvement of marine professional fishermen at sea, and also with all three municipalities in Slovenia, draw up a national programme for the development of marine fisheries, which will provide a perspective and a long-term development of marine fisheries over the next decade. The fact is that this is one of the essential tasks, despite the fact that it is a foreign gross domestic product in Slovenia, this is a negligiblely small percentage. I think that in some things it doesn't matter how much money we get from them, but what it means symbolically. Finally, despite the fact that we have heard today the revelations of how the United List of Social Democrats in the previous government had the opportunity but did not take advantage of it, I would say that it is necessary to separate between the statistical regions recognised by Europe as planning regions, while the provinces for which our Minister was responsible in the area of internal affairs and which has prepared a very good law on the provinces, not the regions, while the minister covering the area of NUTS 2 dreamed of other things instead of doing what was really important. The fact is that all the decision-making, planning and reporting of projects in the EU for cohesion and structural funds has remained at the hands of ministries, that local communities, which, of course, neither of these statistical regions we have, are too small and that the EU does not consider them partners in the allocation of structural funds and cohesion funds, which is why, of course, each matter has been decided by a separate department. Thus, comparing the NUTS region and the province is only proof that some people in this round area, which, as my colleague said last time, reminds me of another round space, shows that some colleagues do not know what the differences between one and the other are. It will be necessary to adopt a law that has already been drawn up and that the parties of the entire national assembly have negotiated and discussed in the previous reference, but have not been prepared to make such a law that would enable the landscapes to live, but would not yet be assured, I would stress that the EU could pass decisions on the resources of the Structural and Cohesion Funds to these provinces. These regions are not meant as partners in cohesion in the EU. The partner is only such a province, such a region that exceeds a certain number of inhabitants, and we in our 11, 12 or 14 provinces, of course, did not guarantee it, could not guarantee it, nor was it the objective of these provinces to have European resources, but was the objective of these provinces' administrative, political organisation at the second level of local self-government in our country. It appears that the government did not consider it necessary to find that these regions, however, need to be set up before the new financial perspective so that equal partners can be involved in these negotiations. As it all appears, like the previous government, this one wants to make centralistic decisions. The President of the Committee of the Regions visits the EU tomorrow. As far as I know, I, my friend, have three more minutes and 16 seconds at my disposal. Please, if you'll stop waving at me because it's wrong. You, Mr. Vice President, could say something to someone on this account sometime.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u79	Please proceed with your debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u80	I'll keep going when I want.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u81	All right, but you're running out of time.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u82	Yes, thank you. I get it. I therefore believe that the decision of the Government not to go into the establishment of the provinces and regions is wrong and reckless. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u83	Thank you. We continue the debate. A colleague of Franz Sušnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Dear Presidents, ministers, representatives of the government! Today, when we address the priorities of the Republic of Slovenia for the work of the Council of the European Union in 2005, and if I refer to the area of agriculture and rural development, which includes a very important place in this document, and take into account the fact that the highest and highest share of sovereignty has been transferred in agriculture to the institutions of the European Union, I cannot help but underline or express my satisfaction that in this chapter the priorities of Slovenia are repeating words such as "simplifying", "unifying" and "strengthening" the national interest. I think these three concepts must be the red thread of our representatives' action in this area. This is why I am convinced that action in the past towards simplification, unification and enforcement of national specificities in the field of agriculture has been insufficient or insufficient as it should have been. I would like to recall all the present, I think that all of you are aware of this, that in the agricultural field we are the most incomparable in comparison with the agricultural actors in the developed European countries, and that there is a need for a special sense of specificity in this area if we are to stop the negative trends in agriculture, which are reflected in the continuous decline in the economic and economic situation of Slovenian farms, and consequently by the deterioration of Slovenian farms and the extinction of our farms. I am convinced that those officials of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia operating in this area will also listen to such debates and I reiterate that they will work towards simplification, unification and, above all, the exercise of national interests. I will not specify in which areas this is necessary. However, it is certainly the veterinary area and all agricultural policies that should be dealt with in a special way. When we discussed this document on the Committee on Agriculture and also on the Committee on the Environment and Space, which we confirm today, the debate took place on the subject of the financing of Natura 2000 measures. We have already heard today that we have declared 38% of the area as Natura 2000 in Slovenia, or even according to some data, and, on the other hand, in this document, you find that there is still insufficient knowledge of the scope and sources of funding for Natura 2000 measures. In the debates on the committees and also my debate today goes in this direction, I am sure that there is a need to revise these areas. Look, according to some of the data I have, and I think they're correct, the Natura 2000 area has also been declared the Voglajna area, which is an industrial channel in Celje, where until 10 years ago there was no living thing in this channel. I believe that if we carefully examine these areas, we would find more similar inconsistencies. However, I think that this must also be done because everything in this area is too unknown from the point of view of financing the actions of these areas. This seems necessary to me also because we are ahead of making management plans for the implementation of these measures in Natura 2000 areas, but we are making a marked departure here, because we have as many as three and a half times or more areas declared as Natura 2000 areas compared to comparable countries, this must be something wrong. If I circle this topic. I would stress once again the disagreement between the members of the Committee on Agriculture and my opposition to the fact that the financing of Natura 2000 measures should in no way be and could not be carried out under the burden of other agricultural policies. It just can't happen. I believe that you representatives of the government have understood the message from this debate and from my point of view. I simply agree with my predecessor, too, in this area we need to take a serious look at whether we are really so rich and not least capable of declaring ourselves as a special purpose area of special protection, which, at the end of the phase, represents some cost and, on the other hand, limitations in terms of economic management of this area, if I look at this segment of agricultural development. I would also like to conclude by thinking that one year after joining the European Union, the time has come for all our representatives to vote in the field of agriculture. in the sense of exceptions, several of these exceptions, as in the case of older or old members of the European Union - I give, for example, only France, which has more than 200 exceptions in the way and conditions of production of traditional agricultural products, in which case this is cheese. I think that in this area we have given up too much of our time, and I believe that the time has come when this indulgence is no longer necessary and necessary, and these exceptions are essential if we are to stop the negative trends in rural displacement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u85	Thank you, Comrade Sušnik. Mr. Ferri Horvat has the floor, and he's giving it up. The last on the list of applicants is Comrade Milenko Ziherl.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u86	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'd like to do it myself very briefly. I am pleased to see the progress of today's debate - although I miss the members of the opposition - because we will meet with these topics and tasks throughout the year and there will be opportunities to identify ourselves with them. However, I would point out only a few things, perhaps the broadest task or set of tasks, is the Lisbon strategy. In the newspaper Finance, we have tracked the report of an independent English institution that has checked - because this year it is five years since the publication of the Lisbon Strategy's tasks - and it is on one of the tables where the overall performance of the tasks carried out is Slovenia in an enviable seventh place, which means that the tasks have been well carried out. However, the second table is a little more worrying, reporting on progress since 1999, where Slovenia is in the eighteenth place. I therefore believe that there are still many tasks ahead of Slovenia that will have to be achieved or that the Lisbon Strategy needs to be given new impetus and new energy. Then there is a table showing the individual sets of tasks under the Lisbon Strategy, namely, how many countries have already been implemented or the legal basis has already been adopted. Some tasks have not yet been carried out. The best situation in the field of women's employment is where 57% should be achieved by 2005. Sweden has become very involved in this area, which is also the most successful by the common result. However, Hungary is the most successful in progress. One more thing about the Lisbon strategy. The Slovenian economy also supports some approaches, namely, to modernise investment in research and development, to stimulate knowledge transfer between academics or between theory and practice, it is said that as many research tasks as possible for the economy, so that researchers may be financially stimulated; as we had the opportunity to read, interest in science and technology is small and the next generation does not show any greater interest. Above all, the economy also expects the removal of bureaucratic barriers to the establishment and registration of businesses. Thus, we see that the Lisbon Strategy is a set of tasks that will have to be tackled to get the right place in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u87	Thank you. We have thus exhausted the list of Members and Members of Parliament who have been declared. A government representative has also been reported for the debate. I'd like a representative of the government, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u88	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the Members and Members for their contributions, for their comments and for their support for the proposal for a declaration before us today and on which the debate is under way. In the response of the Government, I would like to combine some of the comments and thoughts you have made and I will also try to respond to them. A few words were intended to divide Slovenia into the so-called cohesion region or NUTS 2 as we call them, and in relation to this issue through negotiations on the next financial perspective. In doing so, let me stress that the negotiations on the division of Slovenia into so-called cohesion regions are primarily aimed at more effective implementation of regional policy in Slovenia and at reducing regional differences. As you know, the current policy in this area has not met all the expectations. It is true that the NUTS division of Slovenia, while also linked to the question of the extent of the influx of cohesion policy funds, since NUTS 2 regions are, after all, a territorial basis for their division. However, I would like to point out once again that it is not at all that Slovenia, without the said division into the so-called cohesion regions, would not be entitled to any means of cohesion policy, which the government has already explained several times, not least at today's session. Even less so, in this case, they will automatically become net contributors to the European budget. Then there is the idea that Slovenia will pay more during the next financial perspective, and due to poor drawing, the net pay position threatens us. It is likely that Slovenia will contribute more to the European Union budget in the next financial period than it is now, as our payments are directly linked to the size of the European Union budget, which draws on each other. We believe, however, that an increase in the European Union's budget will also provide us with more resources to draw up, in addition to greater commitments. We agree that our net budgetary position depends on our ability to actually draw on the European Union's resources over the next period. While Slovenia is effective in drawing on the European Union budget in various areas. However, some delays have indeed occurred in the first year of eligibility for the European Union's Structural and Cohesion Funds. The Government has taken note of this, has taken measures and has taken important decisions in this regard. This was also discussed more extensively by the Prime Minister in the introduction. We will do everything in the light of current experience to actually draw on the funds that have been delayed. However, it should also be added that we inherited these delays. These are not delays that have arisen during the functioning of this government, and we are also trying to resolve them as good masters. The next point to which I would like to respond is the extent of the funds that Slovenia supports 1.14% of gross national income. Based on the substantive priorities set out in the Communication from the European Commission, the government estimates that the European Commission's proposal on the overall size of the EU budget is an appropriate starting point for negotiations. All tasks in the period 2007 to 2013 will not be possible without an adequate level of EU budget resources, but until the exact extent of these resources it is not appropriate to define, as the negotiations are still in progress. We've heard many times today that we're still negotiating. Finally, because we are only at the end of March and the deadline for the conclusion of negotiations, as we all know, is at the end of June, thus linked to Luxembourg's presidency. Then I'd like to say a little bit more about Natura 2000. The method and procedure for defining Natura 2000 sites are laid down by Article 4 of the Habitats Directive. Areas corresponding to the criteria of the Birds Directive have been established by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, sent to the European Commission and thus concluded the procedure in this part. However, for areas under the Habitats Directive, the State has drawn up a proposal for areas, accepted it at the government in its previous mandate and sent it to the European Commission. The appropriateness and adequacy of the sites, together with the European Commission, will be checked by means of a specific procedure at biogeographical seminars. Only professional arguments shall be taken into account when coordinating the proposals and changes for any other reason are no longer possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u89	Thank you. All the advertised debaters who wanted it got their word. Since the time for discussion has not yet expired, we have one hour and 47 minutes left to discuss, and I ask whether there is anyone else who wishes to discuss it on the basis of Rule 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. Please raise your hand to those who wish to do so. Each of the discussers has 5 minutes at their disposal. I'd like to take the floor with you, Mrs. Bredo Pecan.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u90	When Mr Pojbič, who I sincerely thank for his rudeness, disturbed me, I wanted to say something that is, I think, interesting for all of us. Mr Straub, President of the Committee of the Regions at the EU Parliament, is coming to Slovenia tomorrow. The government in its declaration did not consider it necessary to mention that one of the important working bodies of the European Parliament, the Commission and the Council is the committee of the regions through which virtually every legal project or decision of the Council of the Union or of the Commission or of Parliament is going through. Mr Straub will speak in particular about decentralisation in the countries of the European Union. I think that Slovenia in particular needs clarifications regarding decentralisation, the need for decentralisation. In particular, because Mr Straub is one of the leading members of the European People's Party and is therefore likely to run into open ears in the government here in Slovenia, where two parties are members of the European People's Party. For this reason I believe that the language they will speak will be very close to you, and you will be able to accept his instructions and his advice with an open heart and with an "open minded" as it is called. I hope it will be successful and Slovenia will finally embark on the path of decentralisation by also establishing the provinces, both the Slovenian People's Party and the Slovenian Democratic Party, together with New Slovenia, strongly resisted. I am sure that Mr Straub's work will be very successful in these two days and that he will also leave some positive traces in Slovenia. The Committee of the Regions, as it is said, is also a constitutional part of the European Constitution, which we can say we just endorsed in this House. It is said that the region, the province, will also become a Slovenian target. Good luck to the provinces in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u91	Thank you. My colleague Bogdan Barovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues! Once again, I stress that the declaration is not such an innocent document, especially because it is accompanied by the priorities of Slovenia, which, if they were read very precisely, are also contrary to the principles, the global principles defined by the declaration. But I have listened carefully to the distinguished gentleman of the government, who I know is trying, I believe. He said that it was mainly about reducing regional disparities, and he was also talking about drawing on cohesion funds. I don't want to repeat myself, but I would like to stress, colleagues and colleagues. These stories written here are 3, 4 years old. We had, no matter who was in power, guaranteed three years ago that in the financial perspective 2007-2013 absolutely Slovenia would be a net recipient, which is logical. A small country with 2 million people who hunt technology development. Unfortunately, two years ago it was "it will be" before the year "we don't know". Today we heard, "probably." A little earlier, the distinguished representative of the government said " Slovenia will contribute a little more". I am afraid that in the coming year, when this financial perspective is adopted, Slovenia will contribute everything and get nothing. And it's not about asking me, let's compare Slovenia with Slovakia, Hungary, Poland, or any other country. They don't give a shit. They have 30, 40, 50 million inhabitants. They have absolutely no interest in the Maastricht Treaty, nor are they interested in restrictive fiscal and income policies, nor are they interested in social and employment policies, because they are a valuable workforce for large countries that have adopted a transitional period for the movement of labour. It means there's a lot of Poles to come to work, I'm talking about Germany. There's a lot of Czechs, I'm just saying, come work in France. What about Slovenia, with two million inhabitants? And it says in the declaration: continuing preparations for the takeover of the euro, ERM2 policy, Banka Slovenije in cooperation with ERM2 with its monetary policy ensures the stability of the nominal rate through restrictive, fiscal and income policies in accordance with the Maastricht criteria. If we look at the Maastricht Treaty, there's very little fighting criteria in this contract. In addition to the introduction of a single currency, there is also a majority vote, the European Parliament's competence, security policy, judicial cooperation, internal affairs and the opening of three new pillars. Look, if someone doesn't want or doesn't want or can't know the exact policies because of the abundance of work, please don't deceive the Slovenian people and we're back there. We will impose a restrictive fiscal, income policy in order to introduce the euro in 2007. All right, we'll have it. When we have to be absolutely strict about all the rules, and this same country next to it, I say again, it doesn't bother me, it could be any other one, it offers opportunities, if you can't do it, but put a little bit past it. And if you can't do that, give it some time. Who will feel a restrictive fiscal income policy? Who, who? Slovenians! Probably not a neighbouring country. We have to fill it out. We have to fill it in for ERM2 so that we have the euro in 2007. We must artificially reduce inflation. We raise excise duties on oil derivatives, and so on - who knows little about the economy, knows. We have to do everything in the zeros so we can achieve something again. But at the same time, in the same declaration, we leave some others to do what they want. It is not fair to our Slovenians, not least, I do not really care, we are in Europe and we will see what happens in 2007. But I will tell you that we will not be net recipients, we will not be net recipients, and I will also tell you that this severe restrictive fiscal and income policy will hit Slovenia's pockets mainly, even though Slovenia will look like a good, big, qualified, honest, working country with a large gross social gross product. This big gross social product compared to the European product, and it beats us because we're good. But we let others do what they want. That's why I'm not going for a declaration.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u93	It is also the last one to be reported for discussion. I'd like to take the floor with my colleague Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u94	Thank you very much for saying so, Mr President. As objectively as it has been for several years in the country of Slovenia, which has been monitoring developments on the world stage, it is clear that Slovenia should carry out these priorities, both for work in the European Union and for work at home, without any mortgages on itself. If our product is to be upgraded to be market-oriented, we need to relieve it, and we need to place much more added value into it, so that this product will pass on all the obligations that the real sector has as a net payer to the country in order to maintain the job that is present and to accelerate employment growth and overall growth. This is our obligation and our necessity. It is good, however, that we are in the European Union, that we are an equal partner of the European Union, and that we have taken up the relevant documents that further impose these tasks on us or suggest that we carry them out. Of course, the issue of the Lisbon Strategy is at the outset here. Of course, the Lisbon Strategy is a good thing. It's also a good thing that she's being half-audited now. Those who closely monitor matters find that Europe is such - we always look at everyone, even in our Parliament, first local, national interest, only then we think European. America is different here and therefore it will be difficult to achieve or overcome American thinking, the American economy. But let's be optimistic. How, though, can the goals we set ourselves with this document be achieved primarily here at home? Nothing but a synergy policy of ministries or a policy run by ministries. The Prime Minister must have the right goal and the right vision, but how do you do that? Nothing but the preparation of appropriate amendments to laws and the drafting of new laws and other regulations. Therefore, only if the Cabinets have teams capable of doing so will the objective be achievable in this matter. And they can do it very quickly. These are the priorities for 2005, and very much of the time to start extremely intensively is not. Therefore, one of the priorities, which we do not mention here, is the setting up of good cabinets capable of doing so. And it's a shame to burden ourselves with whether we will employ one more person or one less person. We need capable, efficient cabinets, and I expect that in the first place from the government. I therefore expect that Parliamentarians too will soon receive a whole range of relevant proposals. That's when our story in Parliament begins. When I had a little follow-up to the debate on individual work bodies, I could see that some cabinets really need a few more activities to do this. I want them to be deployed as soon as possible and to submit relevant documents as soon as possible, which will ensure that these priorities are achieved, and even more so in this year's year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-29-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u95	Thank you, Comrade Brenčič. This concludes the debate on the proposal for a declaration. As no amendments have been tabled to the proposal for a declaration, we are moving on to a decision on the declaration. Before we go to the vote, I ask Members and Members to check the functioning of the voting apparatus. Since I do not see any complaints or concerns about the work of the voting apparatus, we are moving to a vote. We're voting. There are 48 Members present in the Chamber, with 44 Members voting against 3 Members. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against three.]] I therefore note that the proposed declaration has been adopted. This concludes this agenda item. I conclude the 4th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much. Goodbye.
