ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u1	Dear Members and Members, ladies and gentlemen! We begin the continuation of the 6th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and cannot attend today's meeting of the following Members: Feri Horvat, Anton Kokalj, Stane Pajk from 1 p.m. to 2 p.m., Jakob Presečnik, Dr. Mitja Slavinec, Janko Weber. At the same time, I inform you that this moment is still under way with the College of the President of the National Assembly, so a few Members will join us as soon as they are done with the College. We're moving to 2. Period of the day - Second defence proposal for a law on the suspension of the validity of the law on the social rights of the Republic of Slovenia. In doing so, I remind you that the total time of discussion has been announced for 35 minutes. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to a government representative for further explanation. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The Government proposes to the National Assembly the adoption of a law on the termination of the Act on the Social Advocate of the Republic of Slovenia, since the scope of the work of the social defender of the Republic of Slovenia has been significantly reduced by the abolition and reduction, while also by the gradual completion of individual court proceedings relating to the protection of social property. The reports on the work of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia clearly show a trend in reducing the number of court proceedings relating to the protection of social property. According to the State Report of 31.12. last year, only 32 cases were still pending. In addition, the Ombudsman did not receive any new audit reports in 2004, nor was any action brought. In view of the above, the Government proposes the adoption of a law terminating the Act on the Social Advocate of the Republic of Slovenia and the Social Advocate of the Republic of Slovenia shall be abolished within two months of the entry into force of this Act and shall cease to function as a standalone state authority. Unsolved matters under the competence of the social defender - therefore only 32 open cases - will be taken over by the state defence, in accordance with the proposal for a law. The current officials and other employees of the social defender of the Republic of Slovenia will, as public servants, enter into a working relationship with the Ministry of Justice. It's 7 current officials and 7 public servants. The allocation will be regulated in accordance with the applicable law on public servants. In this regard, the Government would like to stress that the provision of the Act on the takeover of former employees by the Social Advocate of the Republic of Slovenia guarantees continuity in relation to the working relationship. However, as regards the current officials, it is also ensured that the provisions of the Act on Officials in the State Authorities, which, as the first of its rights to officials after the end of the term of office, provide for the conclusion of a work relationship with the relevant job. The Ombudsman and his deputies, who have been assigned cases pending the termination of the operation of the Social Advocate of the Republic of Slovenia, are therefore only responsible for, I emphasise, 32 open cases, after taking over the staff of the Ministry of Justice, are temporarily transferred until the conclusion of the open cases and have the same powers and powers as the social lawyer and his deputies under the Law on the Social Advocate of the Republic of Slovenia prior to the entry into force of this Act. Another feature of this law is that pending cases under the jurisdiction of the social defender of Slovenia are resolved in the courts as priority and urgent. The purpose of this provision is to put an end to the procedures in which the current social defenders are involved as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u3	Thank you for further explanation. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as the parent working body. I ask the chairman of the committee, Mojco Kucler Dolinar, to present the report of the committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u4	Thank you very much. Nice greeting, all of it. At its 6th session, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for the Internal Policy of Public Administration and Justice considered a proposal for a law on the termination of the Act on the Social Advocate of the Republic of Slovenia. The draft law therefore proposes the abolition of the social lawyer of the Republic of Slovenia as a state-owned body, in view of the abolition of the powers conferred by that body in the field of the protection of workers' rights from a labour relationship, and of changes or decreases in powers resulting from changes in the substantive rules, which has significantly reduced the scope of the work of that body. Under the proposal, pending cases under the competence of the Ombudsman will be taken over by the State's defence. The current officials and others employed by the Ombudsman will, as public servants, enter into a working relationship with the Ministry of Justice. At the meeting, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service identified some of the proposed amendments submitted to the Committee for its adoption by the Ministry of Justice, which, although partially followed the comments of the Office, the representative also gave an opinion and said that the solution to the bill was somewhat unusual, since it puts the termination of the law first and only predicts that certain issues should be regulated. It noted that it might be necessary to consider phasing out the Authority and gradually reducing the number of employees. Next. She also pointed out that the reports of the Ombudsman on the Home Economics Committee would only be considered now. This fact was also somewhat appalled by social advocate Anica Popovic, and she said that herself and her deputies - the social advocates - had no effect on the fact that the cases in the courts had been dragged down for so long and that not all things had ended because of the judicial backlogs. However, she pointed out that they had faithfully and carefully carried out their work, and she herself had advocated the gradual abolition of this institution. In the debate, the members and members of the committee did not object to the draft law, which is also evident from all the votes cast, since both the proposals for amendments and all the articles of the bill were adopted without a vote. The Committee has adopted some amendments to an article, an integral part of the report you have received is a supplementary proposal for a law prepared by the Committee by including the amendments adopted in the draft law for the second reading and proposing it to this assembly for adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u5	Thank you. Following is a presentation of the position of the members of the groups. First reported is the position of the New Slovenia Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u6	Thank you very much, again. In the case of the social defender of the Republic of Slovenia, it was a specialty of ours, partly inherited from the previous country, concerning the powers the social defence had until the entry into force of the Labour Relations Act until 1.1.2003. On the other hand, it has also been entrusted with a very difficult task, which is to protect the social property in accordance with the rules on property conversion, which, according to the opinions and already well-known views of our Group, has tried to do its job, but perhaps not always with the necessary commitment and diligence, otherwise we would not have talked so much about damage to social property throughout this period. At least some procedures, which must be recognised, have been successfully completed, as we can read in the last report of the Ombudsman for 2004. It is tragic, however, that the reports for the past years, in 2002, 2003 have not even been addressed by the competent committees of this National Assembly. The reports for these years were not discussed on the Committee on the Economy until last week without discussion. Of course, it is a little late to discuss that it could lead to concrete conclusions and, on the basis of this, some improvements. Otherwise, since 1995, paragraph 1 of Article 1 of the Act, the Social Advocate of Slovenia has been written down in a somewhat transitional period and also in the end, as it is stated that it should work until the completion of the proceedings relating to the protection of social property or until the entry into force of the new law governing working relations. The institution of a social defender was conceived as a transitional institution of our country. By implementing the Labour Relations Act, he lost one part of his powers and the number of matters relating to the protection of social property was smaller or belonged to him in 2004. So there are still 30 cases open. It does not seem acceptable to us that although the social advocate has for a long time warned of job cuts, there was nothing curly and perhaps two years ago a possible solution to the gradual abolition. The resources for the work of the social defence, deputies and employees are provided from the State budget and this measure also reduces unnecessary expenditure and, on the other hand, by the acquisition of employees by the Ministry of Justice, this represents a step towards the human resources strengthening of the Ministry of Justice. According to the figures, it is only human resources that are fed when compared with some other countries. This will certainly be useful for the Ministry to carry out various checks on both prosecutors, courts and notaries in a more appropriate manner. The abolition of the Ombudsman will not be at the expense of the completion of the pending cases. The continuity of the resolution of these cases will be ensured by the transfer of open cases and the takeover of the responsible social lawyer or deputies through the Ministry of Justice to the State Defence Office. In relation to outstanding matters, we also support the proposed solution in the case of New Slovenia, the Christian-Human Party, whereby all outstanding judicial proceedings and administrative disputes in which the social defender took place should be considered as a priority. According to the New Slovenia Group, these cases will be able to be completed in a qualitative manner, so they will not go to the detriment of open procedures and in the manner proposed by the government with their proposal, because they will be done by the same people who have worked so far and as we have heard at the hearing of the home labour body, I think that these are probably three still in the process of solving matters. We will support the proposal for a law on the termination of the Act on the Social Advocate of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u7	Thank you for the presentation of the Group's position. I would like to take the floor by inviting the Member of the Slovenian People's Party on behalf of the Parliamentary Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u8	Thank you for your word. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the social defender of the Republic of Slovenia. Since the powers of protection of workers' rights from a labour relationship have been exhausted by the Ombudsman and the introduction of social property is almost in the past, the social advocate is hardly left to work. We are also pleased to accept the Government's proposal that the Government or the Ministry of Justice will assume its obligations as regards employees of the State Advocate of the Republic of Slovenia. We also support, in accordance with the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the extension of the deadline for the termination of the action of the Social Advocate from one month to two months, although I would like to point out that in the Slovenian People's Party's Group we have endeavoured to ensure that this deadline is acceptable to us by the end of this year, but this deadline is also acceptable to us for a period of 2 months, so that we will fully support the proposal prepared by the Government and adopted the amendments on the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u9	Thank you, Comrade Kangler. The following is a presentation of the position of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u10	Your Honors are here! We regret, in the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members, that the basis of this law is the report of the Ombudsman for 2002 and 2003. According to our assessment, the reason for this law should be the content of the situation which the State or Government of the Republic of Slovenia has known for some time. If this practice, which is also introduced by the current government, is a reason for amending the law to be solely a report and not the content of the actual situation, then, of course, this country is not best recorded. But as for the law itself, what does the law that is before us suggest? According to our assessment, three changes. First time. The abolition of a social defender for the purpose of reducing his powers, which is of course positive. Another time. In order to reduce the volume of work, this is likely to be a logical consequence, i.e. the law, of this new fact. Third time. Rationalisation of budgetary resources. All three of the reasons given by the Law or Explanation given in the Rapporteur of the National Assembly make sense and support. As regards the transfer of tasks, i.e. the content of the Social Advocate's Institute itself, we are talking about outstanding matters, it will come to the State's defence, which, of course, is very reasonable and, on the other hand, it is questionable to see the law in force. If an institution that has not been able to resolve a particular case for 10 years has not been able to do so during this period, it is unlikely that it will be possible to expect only another name of the institute, but with the same staff, because the law also provides that transfer of intellectual property or transfer of workers may be a little unrealistic, according to our assessment. As far as we are concerned in relation to employees, at least to some extent this law protects the interests of employees. According to our assessment, it is also a very important other area, which is the area of the financial consequences of a law that will not have law, and is one of the few laws that will have no financial implications today. We hope it stays that way. As far as the opinions of the legislative legal service are concerned, they are, of course, relevant to our assessment and we support them in the Slovenian National Party Group of Members. However, we would like to highlight two questions that we want the Secretary of State to answer or give us a written answer during the debate. First time. As regards the transfer of funds, which are defined or why they are received by the Ministry of Justice, if they are always and strictly both on the home labour body and in practice trying to establish a distance between the Ministry of Justice and the State Defence. Another time. As I have already pointed out in the part of the content earlier, some of the cases are before the courts in this title, as regulated by the content of this Act, which has been open for 10 years now, and these same people, to whom their working relationship will be transferred, should be concluded as soon as possible. We fear that such an explanation, or tendency, of the proposed law, is, of course, exaggerated. However, in any way, in terms of pursuing all the three objectives that I said at the outset, we will not oppose the draft law in the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u11	We're moving on to the session. Following is a presentation of the position of the DeSUS Group of Members. Here you go, Mr. Mag. Franz Gniedarsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members and Members. Our parliamentary group will support the law on the abolition of social defence for the following reasons. Otherwise, the important function of this organ is slowly expiring because it has fewer and fewer belongings to it. At the same time, it must be noted that this body is not to blame for the fact that some things are not finished because it has not been able to influence the work of the courts. It is true, however, that at the same time that this body is removed from the law, the continuity of resolving pending cases on the one hand, will be taken care of by workers on the other hand, so that we think the matter is as it should be. At the same time, the law has no financial implications, so our group will also support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u13	Thank you. This is followed by the last submitted parliamentary group. The position of the SDS Group will be presented by colleague Dimitrij Kovacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u14	Thank you so much for saying that. Colleagues, colleagues! The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group supports the proposed law on the abolition of social defence. The fact is that most of the social defence's tasks are exhausted and new tasks like this will no longer be achieved due to the changed ownership structure in Slovenia. Therefore, further insistence on the preservation of this institution, which is a relic of the past, as we know from the preceding period, with the name of the social self-government advocate. Today, the continuation of this institution would be some sort of anachronism. It is true, however, that in recent years the Ombudsman had an important mission of the Ombudsman in the privatisation process when he cared or should be concerned about the legality of the transformation of social property into private or state property. This process has often been very questionable. We are convinced that there has been considerable damage to social property in the past period of the transformation of social property into private property. The public defender has successfully resisted many attempts to damage social property. And there was a lot going on with him, because he couldn't even be aware of everything. We believe that, in its entirety, the social defender has managed to prevent only a small part of the damage to the social property that took place during the property transformation phase. In doing so, of course, we do not want to say that this institution was unnecessary at that time. It was definitely necessary. It should be both organisational and human resources-based, but it should also have clearer and more competences. However, the previous political authorities did not seem to have much to do with the negative phenomena that have taken place in parallel with the process of transformation of social property. Nevertheless, in some cases, the social advocate worked well and prevented some attempts at wild privatisations, which is all recognition. Unfortunately, however, because of limited systemic options, as I have already said, it has not been possible to stop much of such wild privatisations, especially where this has occurred with greater or less political support. However, we no longer need a social advocate as a state institution today, so the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group supports its abolition. However, it is right that all outstanding cases continue to be brought before the competent courts in order to ensure their priority treatment, so that these cases will be brought to an end as soon as possible. It is also right that all those working on these unfinished cases continue to do so, temporarily within the State's defence attorney, and after completion continue to work within the Ministry of Justice, where all employees are also formally transferred by the enforcement of this law. As it is said, for these reasons, we support the proposal in the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group and we will also support the proposed law.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u15	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the bill, it is not possible to discuss the articles, so I am concluding the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, the assembly will vote on the law tomorrow, on Wednesday 18.5., after the final paragraph of the agenda has been completed. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 3. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Guilt Correction Act - Shortening Procedure. Here I remind you that the total time of discussion is 45 minutes. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to a government representative for further explanation. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The basic law on the correction of wrongs was adopted in 1996 and the purpose of the law was and was to remedy the injustices committed by or without the abuse of law to a wide range of individuals in the territory of the present Republic of Slovenia between 15 May 1945 and 2 July 1990. Since the principles of the rule of law in Article 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms in Article 15 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia are among the most fundamental or guiding principles of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia or of the entire legal order of the Republic of Slovenia and since it is necessary to ensure their effective enforcement and protection in practice, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has proposed certain amendments and additions to the law on the correction of wrongs that would satisfy those principles. A fairly significant change to the enforcement of rights under the law on the correction of wrongs is the extension of the time limit or the extension of the time limits for the submission of requests under this law, i.e. the requirements for recognition of the status before the Commission of the Government of Slovenia for the correction of wrongs and the requirement for a review of the judgment. The other more important provisions of the bill are as follows. First time. Introduction of the concept of victims of post-war illegal death. Another time. It is possible to submit a request for a review of the judgments handed down by military courts established in other countries, the successors of the former Yugoslavia, of course, with appropriate legal guardians. And for the third time, the provision which prevents compensation from being obtained by persons who, under the rules on pension and disability insurance, may apply a family pension after the deceased person is entitled to death, and the deceased person has not submitted a request for a law on the correction of the wrongs. If I finish. All proposed provisions constitute the sole implementation of the principles of the rule of law laid down in Article 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, namely the provision of higher legal certainty, which is also one of the preconditions for social security, and respect for the personal dignity provided for in Article 34 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u17	Thank you for further explanation. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as the parent working body. I ask the chairman of the committee, Mojco Kucler Dolinar, to present the report of the committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u18	Also, at its 6th meeting, on 4 May 2005, the Committee considered a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the correction of wrongs. At its 18th meeting, the College of the President of the National Assembly decided that the draft law should be dealt with in a simplified manner. The proposed amendment to the law is intended to allow individuals, in accordance with the rule of law and respect for fundamental human rights, to submit claims under the extended time-limit for their submission, in accordance with proposal 31.12.2007. A special provision also allows for the submission of a request for a review of judgments handed down by former military courts established in other countries - the successors of the former Yugoslavia - and amends a provision that prevents the collection of compensation to the heirs of persons who have not submitted a claim under this law. All the provisions therefore represent the enforcement of the rule of law, the provision of higher legal certainty and respect for personal dignity. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service summarized the opinion of this service in writing and drew attention to the question of the designation of beneficiaries, i.e. the appropriateness of changing the term "after a war-torn person" to "victims of unlawful deprivation of life". She said that the law in force had been in force since 1996 and that most of these persons had already been in possession of a legal decision, making it a matter of sense for the legal and regulatory services to be able to change the law later. In the debate, some members and members of the committee opposed the draft law because they did not think it appropriate to extend the deadline for the third time to apply for a revision of the judgment. They also do not consider it appropriate to change the designation of beneficiaries. They also raised the issue of sufficient funding to meet all the requirements. Representatives of the proposer, i.e. representatives of the government, referred to two decisions of the Constitutional Court requiring the extension of the deadline. On the financial implications, however, it was said that there are currently only 260 new requirements at the Ministry, which will not bring a greater financial burden. It must, of course, be borne in mind that the purpose of the law is to remedy the injustices which the State is obliged to correct. Members were also interested in the interpretation of the concept of illegality, as introduced by the new designation of beneficiaries, in which the applicant replied that the new name was not a substantive amendment to the law, but merely a more terminologically appropriate, more humane word. Thus, the new term makes it clear that it is an unjustified deprivation of life contrary to the rule of law. Some other questions were raised. However, other members of the Committee felt that the proposal for a law was necessary because, by now, all beneficiaries had obviously not submitted an application or exercised these rights. Perhaps also because the public concerned, especially the elderly, has not been sufficiently informed about the deadlines. They also said that the extension was appropriate. On the financial side, however, it was said that the minimum fundamental rights were being corrected. No amendments were tabled to the bill and some amendments were adopted by the Committee. The Committee further adopted all the articles of the draft law, which are also an integral part of the report. All the articles of the bill and the two amendments were adopted on the Committee without a vote against. The Committee therefore also proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a proposal for a law.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u19	Thank you. Before presenting the views of the parliamentary groups, allow me to welcome guests from Brežica High School. Welcome to our house. And we're continuing the session. Following the presentation of the Slovenian People's Party's Group, Member Brenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u20	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Good-bye, everybody! The amendments introduced in the law on the correction of wrongs are quite routine in nature and are practically without prejudice to the law in a substantive sense. A key novelty is the extension of the time limit, both to apply for the recognition of the status of the correction of wrongs and to apply for the revision of judgments issued to individuals by courts in the former SFRJ. In view of the fact that a number of applications for this issue are still being addressed to the Government's commission for the correction of the injustices, it is perfectly reasonable, in accordance with Article 2, of the Constitution, that the drafter of the law also submitted to the National Assembly an extension of the sliding period from 31.12.2004 to 31.12.2007. Therefore, the Slovenian People's Party's Group will also support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u21	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the position of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. Ambassador Barbara Žgeiner Tavsh.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u22	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! The new law, which we are adopting today again after a reduced procedure, which has in fact already become a specialisation of the new government, is not at first sight even disputed. Guilt needs to be fixed. If we believe the figures that the government has pointed out on the home work body, 260 applications have arrived after the deadline for submitting applications under the applicable law to the competent commission. Despite the fact that all beneficiaries have obviously not made use of their rights, I must raise the question of how the government can ensure in its financial impact assessment that only a small number of justified beneficiaries can be expected. What does a small number mean for a government? In the first few months of 2005, only or only 260 deposits. However, the deadline for this proposal is to be extended until the end of 2007. How can such a period, that is, a period of almost three years, be presented with such unrealistic or inaccurate predictions? Members of the SDS and New Slovenia have pointed out that the entire public concerned has not been sufficiently informed of their rights and therefore the law is necessary. Let me recall that the law has been in force since 1996, which we have not least heard today, and that the deadline for submitting a request for a revision of the judgment is extended for a third time. It does not need to be noted, however, that the extension of the deadline is in fact a minimal problem. What is at stake, and what the National Legislative and Legal Service has also pointed out, is the change of the terms from "after the war-killed person" to "victims of post-war unlawful deprivation of life". The reasons for the proposal by means of a so-called editorial correction are, in fact, a ridiculous force. On the other hand, the relevance or appropriateness of the proposed change of designation that may alter the status of victims is also questioned. Finally, the use of the term "opportunity" is also disputed. This was pointed out by the law enforcement service. The circle of beneficiaries after the amendment of the law is also somewhat unclear. You don't want us to have one law, that's the basic law on the correction of injustices, the same beneficiaries with different decisions and status. And let me point out once again the provision of the new Article 16, which also confers on eligible investors the right to compensation under Article 5 of this Act. This is a right that eligible investors, i.e. those who respected the law and filed an application within the statutory time limit, could not apply. And I'll point out something else. Gentlemen of the ruling coalition explain among the financial effects, and I will summarise: "that it is a matter of correcting the minimum injustices that will not last too long for the country, especially if the part of its privileges under the protection of the homeland are waived by all those who have enjoyed various ratings for more than 60 years, thus contributing to the unity and unity of the Slovenian people." [[...]] I'm sorry, but this contempt, specifically from New Slovenia, tells me that the government's intentions in extending the deadline alone are not so urgent. Even less so, it is an excessively humane purpose of the government. The deadline for submitting a request for a review of judgments handed down by military courts in the former Yugoslav countries has been extended for the third time. The deadline for the entry into force of the status of a war invalid in the war for Slovenia was only two years. Ignorance or ignorance of legislation or only delay of time in the last, that is, war invalids in the war for Slovenia, did not worry anyone. Although it was about, some would probably dare even repeat it, a privilege. I claim the rights of the defence of the homeland to Slovenia alone.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u23	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the position of the DeSUS Group, Mr Yelen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u24	Thank you for your word. Mr Vice-President, Members and Members of the Government. I would like to give an opinion on the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the correction of injustices tabled in the National Assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. This law on the correction of injustices, which we are considering today following a reduced procedure, will be supported in our Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. We believe that it was necessary that we have already passed on to the knowledge of the injustices that have taken place in the past and that by doing so today we will allow the remaining participants, the beneficiaries, to submit their applications or requests. That today's adoption of amendments and the amendment of the law on the correction of wrongs is an important act, they prove the applications that have already been submitted, which are already more than 260. The previous formal law, which was in force from 9.11.1996 to 31.12.2004, is no longer in force today, and it is therefore necessary to allow the remaining citizens and citizens, through equal rights, the possibility of filing applications for redress. In the Group of Members, we believe that such acceptance will also include the principle of trust and justice, a way of respecting fundamental rights and freedoms. With this option, we will be able to provide an appropriate way of ensuring, realizing and protecting personal dignity, respect for each individual, including those who are members of the deceased and cruelly removed persons. Therefore, we believe that so far it has been far too little done by people who have not been sufficiently informed, and it is also right that the remaining beneficiaries come to benefit from the correction of injustices and join all those who will take advantage of this option. We all know that this group of beneficiaries also includes victims of post-war illegal deprivations of life, as well as those who have been unjustifiably convicted for political reasons. Among them are many political prisoners and their relatives from 15.5.1945 to 2.7.1990. We also believe that it is right to set a time limit for the possibility proposed in the legislative procedure at the date 31.12.2007. It should be known that this possibility of the use of legislation was largely delayed by older people who were not properly informed and accessible to them of the legal provisions on the possibility of lodging applications. It must be said, however, that the other members of the European Union have long dealt with such and similar problems. We support the law and the amendments tabled to correct the injustices that have been under the carpet for 50 years or more. The appropriations in the budget are foreseen, and the budget as such does not in any case indicate any threat to the country's finances. We think that this is an appropriate, humane and appropriate proposal, so we also want to support it in our Group of Members. However, we do not agree in any case that services for this purpose should be increased at the expense of the adoption of this legislation in order to implement the law on the correction of injustices. If this legislation is adopted, we will also realise the scope of the rule of law on the sovereignty of other countries, the successors of the former Yugoslavia, as it is also a signatory to the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms of the Council of Europe. We want this legislation and its amendment to introduce all those matters which justify equal opportunities. This act shall also limit the date on which applications or applications may be lodged by all those who consider themselves entitled to the benefit of the law and the rights provided for therein. However, by adopting amendments and supplementing the law on the correction of wrongs, we consider in our parliamentary group that it will please all citizens and citizens under equal conditions to align opportunities with the legal provisions and inviolability of human lives and their protections. By proposing a law amending the "war-killed person" we support a more elegant performer of "victims of post-war illegal deprivation of life", which is reflected in greater respect for and personal dignity for the elderly and after war-torn and disabled generations, which we pay particular attention to in our party and in our group.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u25	Thank you. Following is a presentation of the position of the SDS Group of Members. Emissary Jeraj, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u26	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! The main purpose of amending and supplementing the law on the correction of injustices is to allow individuals, in accordance with the principle of the rule of law and respect for fundamental human rights, to submit claims under the extended time-limit for their submission, in accordance with proposal 31.12.2007. This period has expired following the law in force since 31.12.2004. The constitutional court has already spoken twice about the necessary extension. A special provision makes it possible to submit a request for a review of the judgments handed down by former military courts established in other countries, the successors of the former Yugoslavia. The deadline for submitting this request is also 31.12.2007. It also amends a provision which prevents the heirs of a person who has not made a request under this Act in due time. It is also stated that the word "after the war of slain persons" is replaced in all slopes and numbers by the more appropriate text "victims of the post-war illegal deprivation of life" in the appropriate slope and number. With the proposed amendments to the law, we in the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group agree and attach to the proposaler's opinion that it is the duty of the country to correct the injustices. The new concept of "victims of postwar illegal deprivation of life" instead of the current concept is more appropriate, since it is a more terminologically appropriate text. It is also appropriate to give appropriate satisfaction to the victims of post-war illegal deprivation of life. At the meeting of the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice, the Committee adopted two amendments to Articles 1 and 6 of the proposal. They were also supported by our Group of Members. The amendment to Article 1 merely refers to a proper reference to the number of the article, which editorially changes the term "after a war-torn person" into the term "victims of post-war unlawful deprivation of life". We supported the amendment to Article 6, since it seems reasonable that the status of the victim of the post-war unlawful deprivation of life is considered to be the status of the decisions issued prior to the entry into force of this law. In our view, it is undeniable that the amendment of the law is necessary, since all beneficiaries have not yet exercised their rights because they have obviously not been sufficiently informed of this right, as the representative of the applicant also stressed at the meeting of the parent working body. The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the correction of injustices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u27	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the position of the LDS MP Dara Lavtijar Bebler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u28	Thank you for your word. A respected choir! The original law was passed in 1996 and provided that claims for the correction of the wrongs could be lodged within 18 months of the application of this law. Since then, the law has already experienced three novelties, which have extended that deadline for submitting requests. The last novelty was adopted on the basis of a decision of the Constitutional Court in April 2003 and extended, in accordance with a decision of the Constitutional Court, the time limit or deadline for the submission of the application for a further year, until 31.12.2004. According to the established regulation, the entire duration of the time-limit for the application for recognition of the status of former political prisoner or after the war-torn person under the law on the correction of the wrongs lasted more than 8 years. At the LDS, we believe that the time limit for lodging claims was appropriate and not too short, since it is comparable, for example, the right to compensation under the Criminal Procedure Act is obsolete in three years. Indemnity claim under the bond code shall be invalidated in five years and shall apply equally to the period within which a request for review of the judgment may be made. That is why we oppose the government's proposal. A new definition of the basis for eligibility also introduces the concept of illegality. Since illegality is an assumption, and in individual cases also a legal sign of a criminal offence or a criminal offence, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly points out that a decision in the procedure for obtaining status under this law cannot have an automatic effect in any criminal proceedings. We fully agree with the opinion of the LDS in the legislative and legal services. In our view, the proceedings are the only appropriate procedure for determining the facts of illegality, not the generalised claim of the applicant. The recognition of the status of a former political prisoner or owner after the war-torn executed person, the recognition of the right to compensation and the counting of the period of deprivation of liberty during the retirement period, in place of the court, shall be decided by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia's commission for the implementation of the law on the correction of wrongs. The Commission shall act in accordance with the procedure laid down by the law on the correction of wrongs and shall act subsidiaryly under the law on the general administrative procedure and the rules of procedure on the work of the Commission and not on the procedure as applicable to the courts. The contradictory procedure, the identification of relevant, legally recognised facts and so on, is not the case here. So it's not unusual that as soon as the commission started working, they got in trouble. Several members of the commission for the implementation of the law on the correction of wrongs have already come to know that the Commission sometimes takes decisions also arbitrarily, even though the actual evidence does not justify it. An example, for example, of disputed decision-making. J. P. from Ljubljana. She was sentenced to ten years in prison, and that's where she beat eight of them. In the truth that came to the Supreme Court, it was argued that in 1942, a guide was mentioned in the occupation raids, that she was a member of the bloc's police and in this role terrorized and arrested the citizens that she did not inform two victims of the actions of the invader, and that the soldiers then killed them during the raid with rifle hoofs, that she documented the beating of one person and betrayed another who was later killed by the Council of Ur. The Commission has recognised the status of a former political prisoner with all rights for the correction of the injustices, together with compensation and a double-count pension. We are afraid that such corrections will be made after the adoption of the law and the appearance of the new authority even more, especially if we are aware that the procedures for redressing the injustices of the Ministry of Justice are a priority and that the Minister has reported that the ministry or the commission are also counting cases from the denationalisation process, they are already solving 90 cases a week. We are all aware of the duration of the normal administrative procedure, where at least some supporting material is being sought to justify the issue of decisions, not to mention judicial proceedings. The LDS Club therefore notes that it will not support the proposed law, but of course it is also a completely unrealistic and unacceptable assessment of the financial consequences of the novel, where it is a matter of underestimating Parliament and also of the kind of arrogance of the proposer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u29	Thank you. Following is the position of the Social Democrats' Group of Members, Member Miran Potrč.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u30	Thank you very much. The government, on the proposal of the bill tabled, argues that it is only minor and minor changes, and in fact this law is a significant factor in the sensitive issues of the correction of injustices that have been regulated for nine years. As a result, we are not sure whether the Government has really judged all the relevant issues in this law or has also made decisions in this law mainly on the basis of different value-added judgments that are increasingly being drawn up in this government. We would like to point out that the Government is responsible for reopening these issues and that the reasons for such behaviour have not been thoroughly explained by the Government so far. While stressing the principle of equality before the law in the correction of wrongs, the question arises whether the government will have the same criteria and a positive opinion in the case of other, still unregulated, injustices. Let's say the issue of material damage II. World War II. This is a question that we have been asking for ten years or more. No government has so far had this clear position, even the current government does not have it for once, and this is also one of the issues of redressing injustices. Another such issue, perhaps even more important, is compliance with deadlines. In this law we extend our arms to the age of 11 years, under the law on military war invalids, the time limit of all was two years, even in the cases of military war invalids who became this in the time of the war of independence, even when their disability was recognized only after the deadline and they were unable to exercise their rights at all. Where is the government to propose even when it comes to fighting for the independence of Slovenia, extending and reopening the deadline? However, in the event of the correction of the wrongs, he proposes it. Are the criteria the same? Give me an estimate! They're not the same. Some things favor them and give them priority, while others ignore them. We therefore point out to the Government how seemingly insignificant changes have been affecting a wide range of issues, which have been debated for decades, on which a relatively broad consensus has been reached, since this law was adopted in 1996 with a relatively broad consensus, and questions are now being reopened. With regard to the legal consequences, I say that it is also an interesting proposal from the government, which now includes the judgements of military courts in the territory of the former Yugoslavia in the correction of the injustices. When we passed the law, we considered that this was a risky issue, because in fact it was the issue of the sovereignty of other countries which had emerged in this area. I also argue that it is interesting because, in the case of military courts, it is a question of why civil courts should not apply. Is equality before the law of those who were before the military and civil? And the question is whether we will defend the principle of success and interpretation of Yugoslavia in accordance with the views of the Badinter Commission and international law only when we feel that it is right. But when we do not feel right, we will not say that we are also the legal heirs to one part of the rights and obligations of the former Yugoslavia. It is also a two-faced policy in this case. Finally, the Government refers to the decisions of the Constitutional Court, the obligations of ensuring equal rights and the rule of law. That's not true. The legislature has also warned us, including those who sometimes read a Constitutional Court decision, that in this case the Constitutional Court expressly states that it is not a human right, that it is a right under article 50, to correct injustices or to remedy the situation in war, and that in this case the National Assembly has a relatively broad and free field of regulation of those rights and is therefore not bound by any formal salary to exercise them. These are all questions that prove that the government of this proposal has taken a very superficial approach, I say, by value criteria, but not by necessity, so we think that the law does not deserve support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u31	Thank you. Following is the position of the New Slovenia Group of Members, which will be presented by Ambassador Franz Capuder. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u32	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. The New Slovenia Group supports the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the correction of wrongs by additions tabled by the Ministry of Justice at the meeting of the home committee. In New Slovenia, we support the initiative to extend the deadlines for filing claims for the correction of injustices. In our view, it is the content that has been practically 50 years under the carpet, which should not have been discussed for 50 years, but only that things should have gone as they should in some civilized and legal country. In every normal democratic country, the injustices committed are recognised and the consequences of the injustices caused are at least partially rectified. Because of the injustices caused by or supported by the then state with its apparatus, in New Slovenia we feel that all beneficiaries should be given satisfaction and repaid in some way. It must be realized that the victims and their relatives had not been able to speak for a long time in Slovenia alone because they were afraid of the rematching of their bloodbaths and their fellow thinkers. Many of them took their truths to their graves, which they could not tell or record publicly. It is therefore necessary and necessary to extend the deadline. In Novi Slovenija, we also support the government's position that the term "after the war-killed person" is replaced by the term "victims of the post-war illegal deprivation of life". The dictionary of the Slovenian book language interprets the word murder as an old term for murder or murder. He also uses the word slaughter in connection with animal slaughter. And many times the way of carrying out the unlawful taking of life was similar. The survivors who survived such killings testify to this and hoped to talk about it. The term "after a war-torn person" does not, in our opinion, reflect an appropriate degree of respect for individuals who, after the war, were unlawfully deprived of their lives or their relatives. The term "sacrifice of postwar unlawful deprivation of life" has the basis in Article 34 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which provides for the right to personal dignity and security, and in part in Article 17 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which provides for the inviolability of human life. This, however, is a categorical definition of the Republic of Slovenia that there must be neither the death penalty nor the extrajudicial deprivation of life. As already mentioned, in New Slovenia we support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the correction of injustices. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u33	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles, so I conclude the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. In accordance with the timing of the meeting, we will vote today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 10th item of the agenda, or at the latest at 18.16 a.m. This concludes this agenda item. I thank the representatives of the government for their cooperation. We're moving to four. POINT OF THE DAY'S LINE - A DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPORTS OF THE ESTABLISHMENT LAW - A PREPARED PROCEDURE. The estimated time is 33 minutes. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to a government representative for further explanation. Minister Dragutin Mate, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u34	Good afternoon. Nicely greeted. Dear Members, Vice-President. In short, I would like to add a few more explanations to the law on amendments and additions to the law on institutions. The main guide for amending this law is that the law must be amended in order to comply with the law on offences and to introduce provisions under sanctions for offences. This replaces monetary penalties with fines and lays down the criminal authority. The level of sanctions for serious infringements remains within the limits defined so far in the law, so that there is no substantial change. In addition, the law required the delimitation of powers between the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Public Administration, as a result of the adopted law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the law on State administration and the law establishing the Ministry of the Interior as the competent Ministry for the Management of Records of Institutions. The following are some minor changes relating to the collection or the possibility of the lawful management of certain specific data relating to records of institutions. For example, a legal basis is laid down for the collection of multiple personal data on persons responsible for representation of the institution. This is data such as EMCHA, meaning date of birth, sex and permanent or temporary residence, thus somehow ensuring their visibility and easier work. There is also an obligation to communicate the changes needed to keep the records, thereby ensuring that the records kept in the Ministry of the Interior are more up-to-date and accurate. At the same time another novelty is introduced, the proposal for a law clearly sets out the information on the seat, the establishment and the title of the seat. This makes it easier for institutions to do business. When changing only the address of the seat in the same place, the institution does not need all the necessary consent of the Ministry to be able to operate at this new address, but is designated as the place where the establishment is located. This makes it easier for institutions to work, but not to reduce everything that is necessary, so that we have control and that we can keep records as we need to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u35	Minister Mate, thank you. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as the parent working body. I ask the chairman of the committee, Mojco Kucler Dolinar, to present the report of the committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u36	Thank you very much. At its 6th regular session, the Committee of the National Assembly for Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice considered the draft law amending and supplementing the Act on Institutions submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly for consideration following a reduced procedure. The College of the President of the National Assembly decided at its 19th meeting that the draft law should be examined in a simplified manner. In its introduction, the applicant explained the proposal and stated that the basic objective of the bill was to enforce the provisions of the Act on Offences, which provided that the rules governing offences should not be complied with in accordance with this Act within three years of the application of the Act on Offences. However, amendments to the Government Act and the State Administration Act require a more appropriate delimitation of the powers to decide in this area between the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Public Administration, as well as a new definition of the competence to keep records of institutions. In addition, minor changes are needed to address deficiencies in keeping records of institutions and to provide more complete and up-to-date data. In its opinion of 19.4.2005, the Legislative and Legal Service makes some comments and the Ministry of the Interior has also drawn up a proposal for amendments to Article 5. There was no debate on the articles of the bill and on the proposed amendment. Thus, in accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill together. By incorporating the adopted amendment into the legislative proposal, the Committee has set out the text of the amended law, which is an integral part of the report, and proposes to the National Assembly to adopt it.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u37	Thank you for presenting the report. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Ambassador Zagorac.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u38	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Your Honors are here! The law before us, the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Institutions, is the first in a series of laws to be dealt with at this meeting and some other futures, which are essentially the result of changes to the Act on Offences, which we know has imposed fines for violations instead of fines. It is therefore necessary to amend the Act on Institutions in the section providing for sanctions and to provide for a criminal authority, and to amend the Act in order to comply with Article 233 of the Law on Offences. Finally, as we have heard from the introduction of the new Ministry, the powers between the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Public Administration must also be harmonised. The institutions have so far been established following practice in the Republic of Slovenia mainly for the purpose of providing a generally beneficial purpose in the field of education, science, culture and sport. In view of the fact that certain shortcomings in keeping records that this law is now supposed to eliminate before or before today when we are considering this law, particularly those new personal data that are supposed to be entered into the records have been corrected. In the Slovenian National Party, we certainly agree with the opinion it has pointed to or the fact that it has been pointed out by the Legal and Legislative Service, in order to clarify the distinction between the establishment's seat and the place of business. The law, as I said in the introduction, is one of a number of those needed to comply with the law on offences, so we will not oppose the bill in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u39	Thank you. Here comes the presentation of the DeSUS Group. Member Rezman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u40	Thank you very much. The adoption of this law is, in fact, one of the routine tasks that will continue to be repeated, especially because it is mostly about coordination. However, it might be good to draw attention again to this or to recall that, until about 10 years ago, we have not actually talked about these things - namely, about the institutions - because this last legislation, which regulates this area, is relatively new for probably well-known reasons. More than half a century ago, one law governing this area was in force because it is primarily about institutions that are legal persons of private law and this has not been overly well-adopted, although the effects and purposes of these institutions are very positive. We could say that these 156 institutions, as many as we now have registered, are welcome in every way, especially because they regulate the area that we normally engage in the concept of social activity and where these activities are not sufficiently funded by public funds, but they need to engage another available financial potential so that they can be implemented. This general benefit and charity is, of course, the central purpose of these institutions and, therefore, the institutions, I believe, are now already receiving support everywhere. There is no need for substantive changes and because it is more or less a matter of coordination with the already mentioned law, we in the DeSUS Group do not object, but we support the proposed amendments. We also support the procedure, the reduced procedure, although these procedures are very large and may be shorter than enough, but it must also be supported because of changes in the register, with regard to supervision, with authorities competent in specific areas, and with fines already mentioned. The proposals, or what the legislative and legal service had pointed to, have been taken into account. The parent committee had no or no substantive comments on this and therefore the DeSUS Group also supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u41	Following is the position of the SDS Group of Members. Ambassador Ljublješek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u42	Thank you for your word. A respected choir! Dear Minister! As already indicated in the proposal for a law the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is proposing, the main objective of the new law is to enforce the provisions of the Act on Offences, which provides that the rules governing offences are not in conformity with this Act. However, amendments to the Government Act and the State Administration Act require an appropriate delimitation and harmonisation of the decision-making powers in this area between the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Public Administration. These amendments redefine the competence to keep records of institutions. The proposer considers that this area can be classified as administrative internal affairs within the Ministry of the Interior. The Ministry of the Interior already runs a series of registers, such as the People's Register, the Register of Permanent Populations, the Register of Associations, so it can ensure the consistency and up-to-date of registration data and the systematic transmission of data to the Agency for Public Records and Services. The establishment shall aim at a certain purpose at a related asset having its own legal personality, requiring a permanent establishment, generally useful purpose and approval by the State authority. In view of this purpose, it is therefore necessary that the law also regulates the control of the State over the institutions, both the control of the property and the operation of the institution. The institutions are most often set up to support the development of culture, science, art, education, as well as to improve social security for people and other general benefits. In the SDS Group, we believe that such institutions are necessary, as it has already been shown that this law has been adopted as a rightful one, and in particular it can, in terms of the involvement of private capital for these purposes. These amendments, however, are only in line with other regulations, and the law remains the same in substance, and it must also be stressed that the bill does not impose any additional burden on the State budget or have any other financial implications, and therefore the Group of Members will also support this bill as a result of all of this. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u43	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the position of the New Slovenia Group. Ambassador Capuder, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u44	Thank you very much. The importance of private property has been reintroduced since 1990. At that time, the need for legal persons of private law to transfer property related to the achievement of a generally beneficial or charitable purpose has increased. The institutions were reintroduced into the Slovenian legal order by the Act on Institutions, which was adopted in 1995. Since then, the number of institutions has exceeded 150. Social, cultural, education, and sports prevail, and the value of basic capital is largely a small institution. As we are discussing institutions, we should draw attention to one of the anomalies arising from this law. In some cases, the form of a non-governmental organization known abroad as a foundation is equivalent to that of an institution under this law. The Foundation is a non-proprietary asset in management used to finance certain projects. Donor contributions shall be considered tax relief. Due to the legally equivalent designation of the foundation with the establishment, there are many problems in practice because it is not always clear when it is really a foundation and when it is an institution. Therefore, a more appropriate term for the Slovenian name of the Foundation should be found to make it easier for potential donors to decide who to give the money to. Today's amendment of the law aligns the law with the law on offences, and the powers of the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Public Administration are more appropriate. There are also shortcomings in keeping records of institutions, which will provide more up-to-date and complete information. For this reason, the New Slovenia Group supports the amendment of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u45	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles, so I conclude the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. We will vote on the law in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 10th item of the agenda or at the latest at 18.16 p.m. This concludes this agenda item. And we're going to move on to 5. Period of the day - Defence proposal for a law amending the law on police, summary procedure. The expected time of the debate is 33 minutes. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to a government representative for further explanation. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u46	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Respectable members of the National Assembly! I would like to introduce this change very briefly. It is a matter of amending one paragraph or more precisely Article 3(3) of the Police Act, where we have found through practice that problems arise in the work of police officers themselves in the field. In fact, the police station or police officers who have powers and work at the police station have been established in the current law as a criminal authority in the management and decision-making process. This has created restrictions on the conduct of procedures and the issuance of payment orders for police officers who have powers and who work on police administrations and on the general police administration, and who do their tasks on the ground and have no authority to conduct these procedures. With the amendment of this Article to this third paragraph, we will be in an equal position so that all police officers who have all the necessary powers at all three levels of police organisation can act in accordance with the law on offences, proceed quickly before the criminal authority and also issue payment orders. However, police stations will no longer be listed as the only authority capable of doing so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u47	Thank you, Minister. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as the parent working body. I ask today's most active Member of the Committee, Mojco Kucler Dolinar, to present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u48	Thank you very much. That's right. The Committee considered the draft law at its 6th regular meeting as a parent working body. The College of the President of the National Assembly decided at its 18th regular session that the draft law should be dealt with in a simplified manner. No amendments were tabled to the bill. In the introduction of the draft law, the applicant cited the need to supplement the provisions in force as the reason for the adoption of the proposed law, since it constitutes a restriction on the conduct of the procedure and the issuance of a payment order for police officers who are not employed at police stations, while also correcting the inconsistent definition of the police station in relation to the provisions of Article 10 of the Police Act, where it is stipulated that the police station is a regional organisational unit of the police and not an internal organisational unit. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service presented the opinion of this service and gave the opportunity to comment on the proposed solution. In the discussion between the members and the members of the Committee, it was stressed that the proposed supplement was necessary and it was also noted that the current regime caused certain problems in practice. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill together. As no amendment has been proposed and adopted to the draft law amending the law on police second reading at the meeting of the parent body, the text of the bill for hearing at the meeting of the national assembly is the same as that of the honourable Members and Members sent to you on 14.3. and also published in the Rapporteur, No. 18/2005. The Committee therefore proposes to the National Assembly that the draft law be adopted in the text before it.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u49	Thank you. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Member Vila Rezman will present the position of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u50	Thank you very much again. The demands of the procedure, appropriately brief, were the Minister and Chairman of the Home Committee, and I also see no reason why those who represent the views of the Members of the Groups should be drawn for a longer period of time. We from the DeSUS Group will support such a procedure, i.e. a reduced procedure, as the solutions envisaged. Even because it is an embarrassment, we can say that in this legislation it has even led to the failure of some police officers to perform the most basic task they have to perform. In short, it's in some contradictory role, and that kind of thing has to be done. As we say, we will support the procedure, we will support the law, we will support the amendment of the law, also because so far none of the professions or members of the home committee have warned us that anything would be problematic.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u51	Thank you. Following is a presentation of the position of the SDS Group of Members. Member Dimitriy Kovacich.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u52	Thank you so much for saying that. Colleagues, colleagues. The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group supports the proposed law on police, since in this case it is only to comply with the applicable law on offences which entered into force on 1 January 2005. This will enable him to continue to decide the same round of police officers as before 2005. Otherwise, if this law were not adopted, the circle of police officers who would enforce procedures would be restricted to those who are employed at police stations. Therefore, as we say, we support the proposed law in the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u53	Thank you. The position of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by Member Drago Koren.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u54	Mr President, Members of Parliament and Members. Good afternoon. In the Parliamentary Group of New Slovenia, the Christian People's Party supports the proposed changes to the law on police. In fact, the changes are very small, only one article is being amended and they are the result of the Act on Offences which entered into force on 1 January. In New Slovenia, we believe that it is right that all police officers continue to work so as not to deprive anyone of a job. Let me finish this brief presentation with one joke. We all know, I'm sure each of you knows some kind of joke at the expense of two cops because we know that a cop is never alone. If we didn't accept these changes today, I'm sure there would be a quick joke at the expense of two or even three cops. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u55	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group, Franc Kangler.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u56	Thank you for your word. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will support the changes made by the government in the procedure. In fact, in our view it is more editorial corrections with the proposed provision, it is said that the existing Article 3 sets limits on the conduct of procedures, as all the speakers have already stressed before me, so that we will also support this amendment in the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u57	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party, Ambassador Zagorac.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u58	Thank you once again for your word, chairman. Respectable present. This is another of those amendments or harmonisation laws that I have already discussed, which need to be aligned with the Act on Offences which entered into force on 1 January this year and to remove restrictions on the conduct of proceedings, since the tasks of the police, which are to carry out police stations and internal organisational units of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, in relation to the conduct and decision-making of offences as provided for in the Act on Offences. We believe in the Slovenian National Party, though it is a matter of minor changes, but the extension of powers itself may also be poor or dangerous if it is not sufficiently specified, as there may be a mix of powers between individual organisational units. It is therefore necessary to define, I will say, further attention and a clearer definition between the individual organisational units in the police force and to define more precisely those tasks carried out by the General Police Administration and police administrations to which their powers of administration and decision-making in the infringement procedure should be linked. It can happen - I'm saying that it can happen, not necessarily it will, but it can - that once more powers are given to certain police officers, the police may be able to use it for some other political purpose, for which we all know where it leads. So, to some kind of police state. Following such a vague definition among individual organisational units, it is even more worrying to know that, at least in previous years, a number of complaints about individual police procedures have emerged, and we fear that such a lack of clarity will add to these complaints. But speaking of police and it doesn't look like the police are doing everything wrong, let me also say something commendable or mention one of the good things the police have done not so long ago. About 14 days ago, a meeting of some NGOs took place in Maribor. The fact is that this meeting was not reported, so there was unnecessary disorder and hot blood between both the protestors and the police, and I believe that you all know what meeting I'm talking about. Because of the illegality of the protest and the resulting disruption of traffic and thus the threat to security, we believe that the police intervened perfectly at that time, although some political parties also have options on the grave violations of the police law and on the competence of individual police officers in this reaction. Another fact that needs to be mentioned is that this meeting, perhaps not on purpose, may not have had this purpose, but also political background has happened, since at this meeting there have been active participation and, according to our estimates or information, those who have caused all these riots and led to police intervention have been actively involved by representatives of the so-called erased society - although we are still convinced that it is self-removed - and some with some very politically colored. Once again, I would like to point out that in this case, at least in the opinion of the Slovenian National Party, the police acted properly and in accordance with the powers they have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u59	Thank you for presenting your point of view. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles, so I conclude the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. We will vote on the law in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 10th item of the agenda or at the latest at 18.16 p.m. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to seven. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Primary Schools after the short procedure. From this place, I ask the Members and Members present, given that we are 20 minutes ahead of the anticipated pace of work, that if they want to have the participation of the Minister, the Minister of State, I will interrupt the meeting and ensure his participation? Do I see a will for this? Please, those who agree to this, nod or raise your hand. Yeah. Then we will continue in 15 minutes, and at this time we will try to ensure the participation of Minister Beast, Minister of Education and Sport. We continue in 15 minutes, which means five to twelve o'clock. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u60	We continue with the 7th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the primary school law, the reduced procedure. The scheduled time for discussion is 4 hours and 27 minutes. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to a government representative to further explain the bill. Representative of the government, Dr. Milan Zver, Minister for Education and Sport, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u61	Mr Vice President, Members and Members of Parliament, guests! Allow me to start by presenting a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Basic School Act, which mainly refers to the change in the role and importance of experts or national tests of knowledge. As you know, positive legislation now provides for a rather extensive model which, for various reasons, cannot be implemented in the next school year when it is to be implemented. I would like to say that the general theoretical debate on the role and meaning of the experts in Slovenia has been taking place since 1992 in order for the professional public to respond quite differently to them. Some have been very supportive of this form of knowledge verification and have sought positive qualities. Part of the professional public - and even today so - is different to me. The proposal before us is a compromise between what the experts should give a positive one and also a compromise between what can be achieved with them. As with any new case that is being introduced, the Minister of State must also act as a good master. At the same time, this means that it has limited resources, either financial, human, spatial or human, and in the given circumstances, it is looking for the optimal, most rational solution. The current system, as we know in law, is not a rational solution. We often seem to have sought solutions in particular in the field of education outside the scope or beyond the scope possible. We've established models that are closer to some "most thing", which is more to what would be good than what is possible or possible. I am aware that there are no perfect, comprehensive and eternal solutions, and also experts, national tests of knowledge are not and cannot be. We've tried to find some compromise, some middle way between what's possible, so that we don't lose the exteriors, and some of the positive contributions that the extremities bring. I am fully aware that the trend or position in the European Union is such that they welcome the external tests of knowledge as one form of standardisation of skills that children, students acquire in the school system, not only at national level, but also more and more at international level. This enables us to be comparable, focused on the goal, a relatively objective view of the student's knowledge, transparency. From the outset, however, these high principles and objectives also have conflicting arguments. Some arguments are quite reasonable. It is important to know that in the second half of the 20th century, two paradigm approaches are also taking place in the field of pedagogy and society in general: from one pure behaviorist trying to measure everything, to a broader cognitive approach that tries to give students knowledge of some greater content or broader context. In particular, external knowledge review critics have repeatedly stressed that teaching should give as much cognitive as possible. Not only knowledge of facts, facts, not only call for information, not just memory, but also others, understanding, a problem that has been known in the sociology of learning for at least a century. And not just understanding, but also using these skills. Right after this element, this Central European model of education, I think, is significantly different from the Anglo-Saxon model. This is shown, not least in international comparative research. And to the highest forms of knowledge, such as analysis, synthesis, evaluation. The main observation of just or some hard, complete, complete model of external test knowledge, which sometimes reminds us of national exams, state exams - and what the national test of knowledge should not be - is that excessive focus on this also substantially changes the way and content of teaching, teaching. This is a counter-effect, i.e. the learning process can take place as much as possible in the sign of achievements and the best possible results in external knowledge verification. Or, as one expert, Dr. Fireman, said, it's an effect when the tail starts waving with the dog. And that's not good. In this case, the learning process, which is aimed only at achieving results on exercises, can, for example, start a strong learning quality at graduation. [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] I'm sorry that time has run out so quickly. [[...]] Is it possible to extend a little?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u62	Minister, according to the rules of procedure, I must not allow you, given that the total time of discussion is 4 hours and 27 minutes, we will be left with time at the end of the debate, and then you are welcome to submit your report to the end, and at this point I cannot do that to you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u63	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u64	Thank you for the presentation so far. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport as a parent working body. I'm asking the chairman of the committee, mags. Branka Grims to present the committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u65	Thank you for your word. I'd like to say good-bye to everyone. At its 4th regular session on 5 May 2005, the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport considered a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Basic School Act submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration following a reduced procedure by the Government. The Committee was informed of the opinion of the State Council, the legislative and legal services, the Commission for National Communities and the letter of the assets of the Councils of Parents of Ljubljana primary schools. In a controversial debate, the Committee took the view that these legal solutions are geared towards promoting quality levels of knowledge and providing feedback on the knowledge standards achieved for pupils, parents and schools and thus to provide opportunities for the implementation of appropriate measures in the educational system. This has created a situation after the introduction of the new law, according to the majority assessment, that the national examination of pupils' knowledge will be streamlined and simplified. Some on the Committee suggested that this debate should be postponed, in short, in order to give further time for further discussions on the direction and scope of changes to the existing or current system, but most of the proposal objected, as it assessed that the proposed law needed to be considered and adopted as soon as possible, so that it would, of course, be applied to the new school year. Teachers, parents and children have every right to be informed of changes in time. In this debate, the majority also pointed out that the existing regime in fact means bureaucraticisation of the school system, which inhibits the self-initiativeism and creativity of students and teachers, which, unfortunately not Slovenia in favour, has shown in the recent results of the international study on mathematics and the nature of TIMSS 2003. Therefore, the majority, despite other arguments presented, felt that changes in the school system were necessary in such a way that students would not only acquire knowledge, which is the present reality, but that they would first and foremost know how to use it, as their personal success, as well as the success of the state of Slovenia in the processes of globalisation in the modern world, depended on it. In addition, many pointed out in the debate that the maintenance of the existing system would in fact mean that children in some way have a graduation at the end of primary school, since without this training they could not continue even for individual professions. This seemed unacceptable to most of them, so the Committee voted in favour of amendments, in which certain positions of the legal service were also taken and presented in writing, and also voted in full with the amendments voted and, on behalf of the Committee, propose to the Members and Members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia that they should adopt the law at this stage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u66	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the SDS Group of Members will be presented by Mr Jože Tanko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u67	Thank you so much for your words and for everyone's nice greeting. We have the expected and urgently needed corrections to primary school legislation, which relate exclusively to the verification of knowledge at the end of all three years or all triads. Corrections are needed for several reasons, both for professional, pedagogical and conceptual reasons, perhaps even for cost-effective reasons, and parents are dissatisfied. The main part of their dissatisfaction relates mainly to the last triad, the last three years, or ninth grade, which would have brought the following school year to the primary school prom. This means that no student would have completed a successful elementary school if he had failed to carry out an external examination or graduation. This means that the student’s learning success achieved in the classroom does not actually play any important or decisive role, since in this case the evaluation of the exercist is dominated, which also decides whether the student has successfully completed primary school or not. If the final assessment of the exteriors is negative, this means that the primary school student did not perform. What this means for a primary school where students are not classed according to their abilities is not particularly important. After primary school, generations have always dispersed, depending on their abilities, from two-year-old schools to vocational, vocational, or high school programs. And in the case of external inspection, all of these children were provided for, or the same tasks of the exterior are foreseen, and now we can imagine either the approach of the trainee or the result of the students, if we have such a diverse population ahead of us. I think I'd follow a pretty big rash. I estimate that 10.15% of every generation would fall at an external examination or at a primary school graduation and that the dropout would be at least that high in vocational schools. The tenth year of education for the unsuccessful part of the generation in primary school is not a solution, but especially a reflection, both for the country and for the family. In fact, this means the installation of unnecessary curves or barriers at an appropriate stage, and I do not think that this can be the aim of the country. That is why graduation is necessary and we support this proposal in our Group. We are aware that it is appropriate to maintain external verification, but in a reasonable, rational manner, in which certain items would be checked on a permanent basis and on a more occasional basis, and we also support the proposal that this periodic part of the examination of the items be determined by the Minister on a proposal from the profession. This is why we do not support the amendment of the Slovenian National Party, which in fact means simply dispersing the number of objects, increasing the number of objects, increasing the number of commissions, and also in this case, it does not show any real knowledge or real progress of the generation in the same subject, but rather those who have a greater interest in certain areas are grouped, and in this case we also get some over-average results in the selection part of the objects. And we think it is necessary - or in our Group of Members - to reject this amendment because we consider that the Government's proposal is sufficiently rational and sufficiently good at showing the reality of our primary school. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u68	The position of the Member of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia will be presented by Member Rudolf Moge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u69	Dear fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! The LDS has already proposed on the Committee on Education, Culture and Sport that we postpone the debate on the Basic School Act and obtain qualified professional proposals before deciding. Today we propose not to adopt the proposed amendments to the law. The reason for this is simple. In the National Assembly, we are discussing a very important element of the school system in the Republic of Slovenia, an element of the compulsory education system, which requires imaginary design and also a deliberate change. However, it is more than obvious from the debate developed under this law that this bill is not inconceivable and therefore does not rely on professional reasoning. Repeated changes in the positions of the Minister and the Ministry, opposition to the proposed solutions and warning about the consequences and dilemmas of the institutions, individuals and the individual professional public, are evidence that explicitly confirms inadvertentness. The law is not even nearly checked in the so-called school public and has virtually no professional support. We don't claim in LDS that we know how to change the law. However, to all who are seriously involved in this area, it is obvious that the open issues are too much to be closed by a harsh political decision until the section on these issues and possible additions to the external knowledge verification system meet what is inconvenient. Last but not least, the question is what will be the transition from primary school to secondary school. The reason is that we do not know why we stop the check after the end of the first period. We do not know why it is necessary to take children's right to decide what is the third subject to be carried out at the end of the primary school - why the Minister will redefine it. We do not know what the proposed changes bear with them, but we know that Slovenia needs external knowledge verification. It needs a clever external knowledge check to have a visible system and also an insight into how effective we are in schooling in this country. The results of TIMMS, which we have discussed here, have made this very clear to us. In Slovenia, with constant pressure on teachers, our school is too demanding, our students are learning too much, they are overloaded, they have achieved that the grades of children are higher than their knowledge. Their idea of how much they know is better than their known knowledge. Today, even more than in 1996, when we passed the existing Basic School Act and then completed it at the external inspection point, we need a dominant internal assessment as a complement to the external evaluation. We need it, in our opinion, even at the end of primary school. All basic knowledge must be acquired, as far as possible, by all students. If they don't get them and the external check tells us this, we're not going to stop the check, but we're going to make sure that students, parents and teachers make sure that at least this basic knowledge is mastered. However, the law is treated as if we have to flee before we face ignorance and not do everything we can to gain that knowledge. Perhaps, ladies and gentlemen, it is a pleasure to suspend external checks. It is possible that someone will gain sympathy for the public for a short period of time and reach cheap political points. We, Members and Members of Parliament, must be aware that, when it comes to the truth, it is up to us to act responsibly even if, at the moment, someone does not like it most. This principle is not followed by the law's proposer, although he is the first to do so. The Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will not support the proposed amendments to the Basic School Act. Let me put it this way for the end. I have the feeling that the Minister is using the incompetence of the existing model only as an excuse if the Ministry believes that this law cannot be implemented, then I suggest that it come before Parliament with a proposal to close the implementation of the current 2006 resolution of the law to 2007, and that it does not inadvertently break the relatively consistent building of the current regime. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u70	Thank you for your introduction. We are moving on to the position of the Social Democrats' Group of Members, which will be presented by Ambassador Potrat.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u71	Ladies and gentlemen, the distinguished Minister and the representative of the Government! The government has proposed to consider amendments and to supplement the primary school law after a reduced procedure and most in the national assembly have confirmed the proposal. And this is the first decision that the Social Democrats Group does not agree with. It is unacceptable to claim that there is minor interference with the law in relation to the proposed amendments. Of course, if we don't mean with this number of articles, there are only eleven of them, but in a substantive sense, they have strongly cut into the concept of a nine-year-old and also into the principle of a knowledge society, which we want to become. But the debate on the working body, which took place without the presence of the two government's announced and authorised representatives, is the Minister and Secretary of State, has confirmed the practice that has now been put in place: to implement the school's projected changes in the coalition contract as soon as possible. The coalition has the power to vote on what it has intended to turn into a nine-year-old, and it will not have to wait too long for some other changes, as Members and Members of the coalition have already announced them; at least the elective items have already been mentioned, and this is already close to involving the verük as a select subject, and more. As it is said, nothing unexpected, but it is somewhat embarrassing because it is lying to the Prime Minister who announced the opposition's will after the inclusion of the opposition, and even more so to the Minister of Education and Sport, who announced in the opening presentation that he would not break, but rather take small steps. This indicated openness to dialogue with expertise and prudence. None of this is left. Indeed, politicians are considered to have a bad memory when it comes to their promises, but the Minister has a number of professional associates with whom to remind him of the responsibility for making decisions that will have long-term consequences. Of course, he will be able to boast that he has reduced the cost of carrying out national tests of knowledge, but the human river says that the first gain does not go into the scrotum. And this is even more true in saving education. It has only been a month since the first analysis of the results of Tims' research, when we adopted conclusions and recommendations on a proposal from the coalition that would lead to an increase in the level of knowledge of mathematics and of the natural subjects of our primary schools. At that time, in the Group of Social Democrats, we also drew attention to the unnecessary urgency of dealing with and the absence of in-depth expert analyses, since it was really just excuses that prepared the ground for nine-year-old interventions. From the general concern expressed by the discussions, in particular by the coalition Members and Members, it could be concluded that they are truly willing to listen to the profession and confirm the proposed measures. But not then, not now, the profession has not been taken into account. We have already gotten used to the fact that there are experts and experts for some, but to refer to the consent of the expert body, which, despite attempts, could not be silenced, goes beyond the limits of good taste and acceptable behaviour even for policy, if not primarily for policy, which should have been based in agreement. The abandonment of national knowledge tests that enable individuals, children, parents, teachers and schools and the country to identify where someone belongs in achieving knowledge standards is indeed at odds with the stated emphasis on the importance of knowledge. This is even less understandable because trials are not mandatory and so far experience has not shown them to be problematic. In the Socialist Group of Members, we do not claim that there would be no improvement, no simplification, but that should not be at the expense of their quality and objectives. If the correct assessment is that we are not yet ready to implement it, it would be possible to postpone the law for one year, but that coalition was not ready to accept it, nor was the proposed suspension of the hearing. This would be necessary, for changing attitudes and ignoring the profession do not confirm the Minister's announced prudence and moderation. However, the decision to elect a third subject is inconsistent with the announced deregulation and will certainly not bring any more relaxation to the school that we have met as a pre-election promise. Hence, it follows from everything that the Social Democrats Group of the proposed law will not support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u72	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the position of the New Slovenia Group. Emissary Marjetka Uhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u73	Thank you for your word. All in attendance, all in attendance! We have a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the primary school law. It is put into the procedure following a reduced procedure, because it is not a major change in the field of education, but it is only a bit of an external examination of knowledge, in New Slovenia we do not think it is necessary to delay the procedure, especially since it should be in force in the next school year. At the same time, it has been more than two months since the government has drawn up a proposal, so it has been enough time for us to take note of the proposed amendments, to put forward a position and proposals. After this, we hereby abolish the national knowledge check at the end of the first period, which is in the third class. In most European countries, national verification is not carried out as early as we had eight-year-old children. There were generations who went through school, but there was no national knowledge check in primary school, but there was no knowledge of how much each school taught children, how much an individual teacher, and how much the assessments reflected knowledge. Now we no longer trust schools, principals, or at least teachers. We have introduced an in-house evaluation in the first period and the concerns expressed by the proponents of such an evaluation are expressed, however, that parents cannot really get a clear picture of the knowledge of children from the descriptive evaluation. So something is wrong with this way of assessing, maybe with learning methods that we cannot replace with national verification, that we will get an idea of knowledge. I don't think teachers know if children have won reading, writing, calculating for their age, but they don't have a chance to say it. In their descriptive evaluation, they can write what the children have won, but not what they have not, but they should. So there's something wrong with that kind of evaluation. In the opinion of New Slovenia, in any event, the abolition of the national verification in the third class means the unloading of children, parents and teachers. This eliminates part of the bureaucracy in primary school, as we know that many people are only involved in the preparation and implementation of external knowledge checks. However, we will still be included in the international TIMSS survey, which is also a student knowledge indicator under international criteria. There is still knowledge checks in the sixth grade, which is voluntary. Check for knowledge from the mother tongue, mathematics and foreign language. However, in the final class, national knowledge checks are mandatory. The evaluation will be entered in the certificate, but will not affect success and further entry into secondary school. By entering the certificate, it will ensure that the children take the examination seriously and demonstrate the knowledge they have acquired in the Slovenian language, mathematics and subject matter, which will be newly appointed by the Minister on a proposal from the expert body. A lot of dust has been raised in this by opponents of the proposed law, because the assessment of external verification will no longer be an integral part of success, if the teacher's assessment is too heavy, the question is whether it is real and the pressure of influential parents on teachers will be even more exerted. With these concerns, we ask ourselves in New Slovenia how low we fell. You allowed the pressure to be exerted. You made your teachers powerless, you took their authority, their autonomy. We have lost confidence in them, both in the supply of substances, in their knowledge, abilities and ultimately in their honesty. We ask ourselves, ‘ Who knows more students than he has taught throughout the year, perhaps for many years? ’ Having the same weight as an external audit evaluation compared to an entire year's estimates seems unacceptable to us. What if the kid had a bad day when he was doing an external inspection test? What if he was sick, had problems at home or something? Too much time has been spent preparing for external knowledge checks, informing parents, educating teachers and not enough learning processes. In Novi Slovenija we agree with the proposed amendment to the law by which the third subject will be chosen by the Minister. Thus it will be possible to see what knowledge children have in other subjects that are compulsory in the eighth and ninth classes. So far, the selected subject has shown knowledge in the individual, because it was the favorite subject, the real picture of the knowledge achieved in the entire population has not been given. By prescribing the external examination of the knowledge of precisely prescribed items, we draw up an opinion that these objects are the most important. So, what about the other mandatory items? We also support the proposed amendment to lay down the subject in March, there will be sufficient time to prepare, and at the same time enough time to deal with the substance in accordance with the curriculum, and there will be no more emphasis on preparing for external verification. In Nova Slovenija we are convinced that the knowledge and values that are acquired in the creation and design [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u74	Member of the Commission, please complete the time limit. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u75	basic personalities for each person and society, so it is important that we restore the reputation of the school, educate the teachers as much as possible and give the opportunity to express [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u76	Madam Ambassador, please, if you finish!
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u77	and decision-making. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u78	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. My friend Prevc.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u79	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! Members of the Slovenian People's Party will support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Basic School Act. We are convinced that the proposed changes bring positive changes in some areas that have proved to be flawed and inconsistent during the trial phase of the nine-year-old. Parents have warned of the excessive burden of our primary school children in the past years in vain, and primary school teachers have become bureaucrats, mainly because of the difficult writing of school documentation and sometimes parents' completely misunderstood written evaluation, instead of fully devoting themselves to the educational work. Teachers certainly need to restore their will to creativity and restore their authority and autonomy. In the Slovenian People's Party, we believe that a nine-year-old introduced into the primary school system is well founded and that, with minor changes in primary education legislation, she can offer our students sufficient quality of knowledge. The proposal for amendments and the completion of the Basic School Act this time only introduces changes in the field of national knowledge verification at the end of the Triad, and there is likely to be a number of further arrangements to be made, particularly in the field of level learning and selection. For a more thorough intervention into the Basic School Act, certain pilot projects will have to be carried out and a number of changes will be required in the Education and Education Financing Act. The proposed amendments to the law retain national knowledge verification at the end of the second and third periods by making it voluntary for the first time and the second mandatory. The assessment of the student’s national knowledge check no longer affects the assessment of the ninth grade and the completion of the primary school. The achievements of national knowledge testing shall be used as additional information to pupils, parents and schools and for the purposes of scientific research and for the production of analyses. It is therefore entirely appropriate that the third subject, in addition to mathematics and Slovenian at the end of the third period, be determined by the Minister following the previous acquisition of the opinions of the competent professional body. Since the assessments of national verification do not affect the final assessment, the student does not need to, in saying, "fish good grades at the expense of the subject", which he is more comfortable with, but the results give us a much more realistic picture of the knowledge of Slovenian pupils from a particular area. The proposed legal solutions are aimed at promoting the level of knowledge and providing feedback on the knowledge standards achieved for pupils, parents and schools and providing opportunities for the implementation of appropriate measures in the educational system. Because Timss research has shown that everything is not ideal in our school system, so I find it difficult to understand those who oppose these changes and claim that everything is in order with the existing school legislation. These changes will certainly relieve students of certain psychological pressures, and teachers will, after at least the first triad, be burdened with red tape related to national knowledge testing and will be able to focus on their mission: educational work. However, changes certainly bring significantly more rational solutions in the field of national verification. Many teachers also favor the changes mentioned. However, the world of parents of Ljubljana’s primary schools also provides support for change, which is far from negligible information. In general, many critical opinions on existing legislation by teachers and parents have been neglected in the past. Once again, in the Slovenian People's Party we will support amendments to the primary school law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u80	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the position of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group, Ambassador Barbara Žgajner Tavš.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u81	Thank you very much again for your word. With the latest measures taken by the new government, I will say, Slovenia is a knowledge-based society that is increasingly hazy. Unseriously, even less professionally by the Minister, the reduction in the volume of financial resources for well-adopted and in practice well-infilted procedures in primary education is. The amendment of the Basic School Act has been responded to, which has been strongly responded, also by practitioners from practice who do not actually see a positive effect in the expected changes in terms of improving curricula and decommissioning students. Let me remind you here of the recent results of the TIMSS survey for 2003. It was also performed among students who fall into the period after the first three years, which clearly showed that Slovenian knowledge is declining, that Slovenian children need to be gradually and therefore less stressful to prepare for European comparable knowledge tests. That's not the last thing we're trying to do. Let me remind you of the Bologna Process and the Lisbon Strategy. During the key changes, the Minister mentioned external knowledge verification in the opening presentation today. And I ask him, and I hope to get an answer in the end. Is the compromise simply to avoid losing the outsiders, a justifiable and, in particular, a professionally acceptable argument for these changes? I understand that the Minister must be a good master, but the question is to what extent at the expense of knowledge. The external audit of the gesture, which the Minister abolishes, is based on everything the Minister has pointed out that external verification of knowledge must be. Does the Minister even know how the first three-year-old knowledge check is going? So that external knowledge check that the minister's shutting down. According to our assessment, the Minister is incomprehensiblely interfering with the system of external tests, including those based on the voluntary decision of the student or parents after the first three years, despite the fact that in response to the question, the Minister notes that 93 children have volunteered for the first external examination of knowledge. The autonomy of education is also an important factor in the implementation of the Lisbon Strategy. Unfortunately, the moves taken by the new government in the framework of education and education reform are at least at first sight following this objective. It could be deeper than that. School administrations, which are expected to come to life on September 1st this year, the government is abolishing, and although the project is basically, I will also say that it points to the necessary decentralisation, which was, by the way, among the priorities of the new coalition. However, the autonomy of an individual shall be abolished to some extent even by the Minister's intervention in determining the third selection case. Why the Minister's explanation makes no sense. If the national examination of knowledge is not physically taken into account anywhere, at least the student should have the possibility of choosing a selection object on the basis of his or her abilities and wishes as the so-called "feedback" of his or her abilities or knowledge. The fact is that the school system must not produce uniform and non-creative thinking, as we have seen not least in the past system, but must follow the individualisation of each individual. The so-called Soras programme, a step after step that has been taken in this direction according to the Slovenian National Party's assessment of one of the most positive movements in the Slovenian elementary school, or not without financial means or without significant effort, attaches to our claim and not least stresses the importance of looking for and developing its abilities in the individual or student. In line with what I have just said or said at this time, I also appeal to all Members of the National Assembly to consider and to take a positive or supportive approach to the amendment of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u82	Thank you. A presentation of the position of the DeSUS Group, presented by Mr Rezman, will follow. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u83	Thank you very much. If we were to put together the DeSUS Group of Members for years and establish the average, of course we are the longest away from primary school. However, this does not mean that this issue does not concern us whether we are not thinking about it or that we are overly nonchalant in this regard. In particular, I would like to stress that this is a problem that concerns us. This is a problem that we are seriously facing, and therefore we do not give 'one block' support for all changes, nor do we claim that none of what is proposed needs to be done. Unfortunately, the bill that we are now talking about is again only one of those that we are shortening in a long series, which we do not consider to be the most favourable and which is likely to slow down in other procedures in the National Assembly. The question for us is whether this is really about less important changes. This also raises the question of whether the procedure should be as proposed. We're not so sure that we can confirm this without a backup. We are urged by the urgency argument if we want to change this by September, but at the same time the question is whether it is necessary to change this by September, that is, by the beginning of the new school year. We support certain proposals or do not have specific concerns, such as those that I have not heard any concerns about on the other hand regarding the opposition to the evaluation concerning the adapted programmes. And also with regard to the evaluation after the first triad, which is suspended, I think that there should not be too many major disputes. We believe that it is okay, that after the second triad, this is optional, and that all three objects are known from which they will be checked. However, we have some warnings or some concerns or we would like to say that we have reserves and that we are not thinking exactly the same about some other things. In particular, we would like to preserve the hope that we will not soon accept what we will have to change again and quickly. We don't know any surveys that give us analytical material that we can build our own position on, and unfortunately we don't know any professional labs that we can think of and try to figure out what it means to support and what it doesn't. This is certainly a drawback, and we should probably no longer afford it in future procedures. We also have little doubt about this claim that everything is unrealistic and too expensive. If procedures can be carried out differently, even cheaper, of course, we will support such changes. We doubt, however, that the best solution is the one proposed in this bill concerning the institution for education of the Republic of Slovenia. The most important thing is to think about external verification after the third triad, because if it does not have any impact on success and if it does not have any other effects, it is, I think, seriously enough, the question of how is motivated by the approach of students and students to such verification, how is it, then, if there is no appropriate motivation, such as for any other competition, with objectivity, and whether then these results will really be right for us to be merely informed about the knowledge we are testing and the standards we are testing. We therefore believe that this needs to be carefully reconsidered in today's debate. We believe that it would be good if this kind of verification were given more weight, which would, of course, motivate students as well as teachers, teachers in primary school or that this has a greater weight later on when they sign up for various programs in high school. In the DeSUS Group, we feel that it is not necessary to completely reject these amendments that are proposed, but we will listen carefully to the individual amendments and the individual articles in the debate and decide on the correctness of the solutions.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u84	Thank you. We have concluded with the presentation of the views of the groups of Members, so we are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled, which is Article 1. I am thus putting to the debate Article 1 and the amendment of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. Who wants a word? I invite Ambassador Zagorec to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u85	Thank you, for your word. As my colleague, Mrs Barbara Žgajner Tavš, said in the introductory explanation, it makes sense that the amendment proposed by the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members should be supported, especially for the reason that, as it is now stated in the draft law, the third subject is chosen by the Minister, in cooperation with some expert council, which it is also likely to elect, it gives the Minister too much power to raise himself. At the end of the third period, it is appropriate to leave the third subject in the student's own domain. This is a choice based on the interest and knowledge of the individual learner, which also follows the objectives of identifying and promoting talent and long-term promotion of competitiveness in the labour market, but not that, as is now the case in the proposal of the law, this subject can change over and over again every year, irrespective of the needs and wishes of individual students. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u86	Thank you. I'd like to take the floor with my colleague Gulic.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u87	Mr. President-in-Office. Dear fellows and fellows! Dear Mr. Secretary! I'm going to tell you about the amendment itself that I'm going to back him up for a lot of reasons. One of the most important, however, seems to me to be freedom, the free choice of the subject, where one can show the most where one can show his range, can show his will, perseverance, joy, which in the end here is the expression of individual freedom that students have within the school system. Why don't you support the election of a minister? Especially because I think the number of objects is so large that if we were to spin around in a circle, they would not have produced any comparable results. At a time when all objects would be turned around, many generations would be replaced and, of course, no comparable matters would be already due to the development of human society, due to the development of individual professions, and of course because teachers would probably change at that time, and I don't know what to compare. While the student, the student, can choose the subject in which he will show himself, of course the comparability is much greater, at least within the individual school, to the teacher, but of course the student and his parents will also see what someone can do if they make an effort to do something for him. Of course, changes in marriage bring something else. The amendment itself is actually difficult to talk about outside the context of any change. Let me also say that this external verification will certainly be passed on somewhere. If it is not taken into account at the end of the triad, however, the result of knowledge will be taken into account on some admission examinations, and selection will then be taken into account on the admission examinations. If they're not there, it'll be a first-year selection. Just like it was when something went wrong. I'm in school, so I've been living for 51 years, two months, one week and five days at a time. I saw all the school changes, from those when junior high school quit to eight-year-olds, to the whorehouses I got when I was an assistant in college. And I know what happened when things got simpler when the mirror got dirty when we wanted to see something more than it really was. And the proposal of this law specifically points to this. Not to be seen. We're shutting the exteriors down because there's not enough knowledge, and there's supposed to be more. Of course he won't. There could be better grades. But the grades are like that, you know. Before the war, it was from one to five, and one was the best, and five was the worst. That can change everything, too. I would like to stress once again, above all, that we still have to rely on expertise here. And let that profession be publicly named. I work very hard on anonymous matters when I don't actually see the authors when I don't know who's behind what, even though those who are against have made themselves clear with names and surnames or at least within institutions. Thus we know that it is against the principals that they are against teachers through their union, that some students, I will say, question these solutions, especially those who are already past these matters, and others. Of course, parents are often quoted as being in favor. Of course, parents are also manipulated, but I don't think politics now, now I mean their children in particular. Of course, children must survive and fight for survival within the school and within the family, and then they can say everything that people like to hear. And if parents who can’t even learn basic schooling, or even high school knowledge, seem to be overworked, their children are attached to them because it’s more comfortable. And of course, this comfort is worth the effort. So much for these reference matters. This amendment to the law that is proposed, I am not now talking about the amendment, but about the whole law, it forces me to say something that is retro, it is said, which goes very far back to the history of evaluation: Sit down five and tomorrow at school. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u88	Thank you. Member Barbara Žgajner Tavš has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u89	Thank you very much again for your word. In the introductory presentation or presentation of this amendment, the colleague Zagorac actually said those basic things which need to be highlighted and which make sense to follow up on this amendment. In the introductory presentation of the views of the various parliamentary groups, we have heard quite a few interesting statements which in fact suggest that it would be truly reasonable to support the amendment tabled by the Slovenian National Party. Let me point out here, in the SDS, they are concerned that the Slovenian National Party's amendment is a dispersion of knowledge. Isn't that the goal we should be following? The breadth of knowledge or the dispersion of knowledge, if you want, or in Slovenia we only need a one-minded tracking, and I will say ill to the Minister's decisions without taking into account the interests of individuals? Where's the hearing not last for the development of the child? The law states that each year the Minister shall decide on the third selection item on the basis of, or with the assistance of, the expert opinion or opinion of the expert body, and today it is also necessary to state that the expert body is not defined. We don't know who or what the expert body will be. In the Slovenian People's Party, a third selection object was highlighted in the national examination of knowledge under tactics, or the selection of a minister was intended to give a clear picture of the knowledge of pupils from a particular area. I've got a question written in the back. On a proposal from the expert body, I have already said that it is not defined once every year, I have chosen another choice item, and do you know why the Gaussian curve methodology was actually used. It's just that every year generations aren't the same or their knowledge isn't the same generation before generation. I will point out something else, which is actually a very, very necessary consideration. In the SDS, it was pointed out that if they kept the national knowledge check, i.e. after the third period, after nine years, compulsory national knowledge verification, which would be taken into account in success, 15% of children would fall. The argument is more, respected colleagues and colleagues, not to break the existing system, but to do something to make it different. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u90	Thank you. Mr Gaber has the next word.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u91	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, your Honourable colleague, Minister! Education in each country is, as a rule, a meaningful internal link. It has some logic that doesn't start and end at one point. This also applies to the school system in Slovenia. Inside this system is external verification and evaluation in general one of the important elements. Only someone who does not take the school system seriously can take parts of it and place them in one way or another or move them. What we are talking about here today is the issue of looking at the system as a whole. When we talk about the question of choosing a third object, as one of the additions I support and I think it shows acceptance, we are talking about a certain point throughout the evaluation web. The evaluation in our school system is set up by starting with a descriptive evaluation at the beginning, moving from a descriptive evaluation to a combination of a descriptive assessment and a numerical evaluation and ending with numerical estimates. It is because of this that we, of course, need an additional external perspective in this respect too, that we decide that we have an external knowledge check. We need external knowledge verification in order to give both teachers, students and parents an additional insight into what is going on in the system at the time of the predominant internal evaluation. Perhaps it was less obvious that we needed him when we introduced him as we did today. It was not clear at the time what Timss had told us. In fact, we have succeeded in putting pressure on teachers, by constantly telling them that they demand too much from children, by learning too much in our schools, by demanding too much specific knowledge, we have managed to instill in them the idea of not being required in a school above a certain measure. An international study has shown us that we are now overestimating ourselves. That teachers thus give grades higher than actual knowledge and that students believe that they know more than they actually know. In such an approach, it is more than dangerous and more than inadvertent to withdraw external knowledge checks from the system. My colleague Moze has already pointed out that this may be pleasing. However, ladies and gentlemen, before this happens, it is worth at least a few more reflections because in the long run, many feel that it is harmful. It is no coincidence that we have not heard the names of the experts and experts who support these solutions today. The reason is simple: if these people want to be consistent - and there were dozens who participated in conceptualizing this basic provision - then they must say that all three concepts that were made for primary school in this country included external verification after the first triad, secondly and thirdly. The dispute, which was real and which I recognize as a legitimate dispute, a professional dispute, was whether these trials should be mandatory. That was the first conflict. Today, however, we are suspending external checks after the first triad, which is voluntary. And it never happened that less than 80% of those who had the opportunity to apply would apply for this verification. In 1994, there were more than 90% of them who decided on a voluntary basis to do so. Why do we take this opportunity for parents and children? There's no good reason for that, except that someone made promises and now they want to be liked. These people can come forward and support, for example, the end of the last triad of separation between internal and external evaluation. There was a real conflict and there were, and today there are professionally different opinions in this country. And, of course, they can't support it either, not that it's not the choice class that students and students would choose. We are here today to decide to suspend external verification because it would cost us too much. After the first triad, it costs about 50 million tolars, the most expensive in the entire structure. So that can't be an argument. Everything for this check is ready. If anyone really thinks he has to save about 250 billion tolars in the budget, then he has to stop checking after the third triad. It's really worth it. Otherwise, it is inaccurate and misleading, even a false claim that verification, such as it is, is not feasible. The verification, as it is, is feasible. It is, of course, feasible in this way, as is feasible everything else that happens in the school system. If we don't do anything to make it work, there's nothing workable. The only open and serious question of conceptual nature was what is the third repetition - three options were envisaged in the concept that was presented to the minister sitting here today for verification at the end of the ninth class. We're supposed to have a chance to repeat it three times. But for the third time, it was a question. And if for the third time you can go to this external inspection and choose your class for the third time, then can someone who can sign up for the school he wanted with such a result? The answer to this question was given in the university registration system. I'm not saying that this is the only one that's possible and that's right, but I'm pointing out that it shows these things to think about and not give people false ideas about what's possible and what's not. The system needs to be upgraded, I agree with that, but if we are going to seriously upgrade the system, then it is not possible just to do so, when a whole bunch of people are against what you are doing, to abolish certain elements of the system. This, gentlemen and gentlemen, is simply not going to be good. It doesn't matter who it's not going to be good for politically, it's important that this is not going to be good for this country. This country pushes its head too often into the sand and hides from the results. It was already mentioned here today. The claim that 20% of the points had already had to be sufficient for a positive assessment that this was the reason to break the link between external and internal evaluation is theoretically so unconsistent that it is quite serious to talk about it. Someone here acts like that person who looked in the mirror, and she didn't see the image she would like, and she broke the mirror. That's not what he says to do. Therefore, if we do not know enough, which is one possibility, or if the standards to be met are wrongly set, then in the first case, efforts should be made to ensure that as many children as possible achieve this standard, because once each person makes an account or the standards need to be adjusted. Yesterday, the minister here explained what the problem was and why it was necessary to end the verification after the first triad by arguing that it was not differentiated enough. Dear colleague, if not differentiated enough, then it is necessary to correct the tasks, not abolish the check! This is a logical approach to these things. I therefore stress once again, we will support at least this supplement and we hope that at least this will be accepted. This will give us the opportunity to reconsider the whole body's withdrawal of these checks. However, these verifications do not suggest that they should be lifted when they are introduced in Europe, especially by hiding where they are, and that we are moving around on what they are doing within these checks. First, it was said that this verification had been lifted that it had not been found anywhere in Europe. Then a few memories came back and it was said Walles, England, Malta had this, and then France came along, and yesterday it was released that the Netherlands and Belgium were doing so. Why, I wonder, was that dropped? Because someone doesn't know the system he's talking about or because then the question would be, are we really so lonely about it? The following fact was also omitted. Norway, which has found poor results at TIMSS and PIZ, is taking a decision to introduce external verification. The Finns are strengthening the percentage of schools they're checking. Schools come by themselves, and you're taking away the opportunity to contact them. He's too quick to make decisions, too under-thinking, with too little sense of the system as a whole. With a lot of feeling, hip, like, and very well-adopted moves. Too much, too much, Max Weber would cross that, buddy!
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Dr. Gaber. Allow me merely to point out that the debate is only about the amendment, so I would ask that this be taken into account. My word to Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u93	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Fellow Members and Members! We have now received a good degree of teaching, but I would still like to define myself to this amendment. In New Slovenia we understand the intention of the amendment of the Slovenian National Party, but unfortunately we cannot support this amendment. It seems to us that the proposal in the law itself is much better, for two reasons. By setting this third subject, the Minister will be given, according to our assessment, the duality of social benefits. For the first time, we will be given an insight, which is said on a proposal from the expert committee, into an individual subject and we will be able to see where our children are, according to the knowledge, the choice will be among several compulsory subjects that are mandatory in the eighth and ninth classes, and undoubtedly this will be a major rationalisation, because if children choose more subjects, then we would need so many and so many committees not to mention. If I go any further from this proposal. I have told the previous term several times, and I have also told the previous minister several times, that children have a lot of rights to, in fact, often forget what their duties are. If you'll excuse me, I'd only read two paragraphs. Max Weber was mentioned earlier, and I might have read two paragraphs from the paper, from Hubert Fireman's contribution to this topic. As far as freedom is concerned, it is said: "Today the crossing on the scale has already been so inclined on the side of human rights that many people do not really want to hear any more about their obligations, duties and responsibilities. In principle, there is nothing wrong with upholding their rights at a time when in many parts of the world children are hungry, sick, illiterate, forced to work hard or carry weapons. And they were primarily thought of by those who wrote and adopted a United Nations resolution on children's rights. But something quite different is the catalogues of rights that are supposed to be long, in some cases so that it is possible to have virtually everything to reduce their rights, even their values. According to some sociologists, this is a sign of a growing enslavement of Western society. For at one time, childhood was just a temporary preparation for life, for adulthood. Unlike then, we are now witnessing the cult of worship and the raising of childhood. As a result, childhood is no longer more than once a time of socialisation and culturalization, and the life span that was once called adulthood disappears, along with the characteristics of most adults: life-strickenness, emotional, social maturity, the ability of spiritual maturity, and so on." And on the other hand, if we compare this period today with our childhood, we could say that it is true that young people today are almost entirely unprotected from commercial exploitation, ideological seduction, moral pollution and the transformation of their brains into a colony of globalizing capital. One of the reasons was recently pointed out by Justin Stannik, who wrote: "We all withdraw from our natural positions: as a teacher from school, both a farmer from the earth, father from the family, mother from the fire, politician from responsibility, wise from wisdom, artist from beauty. We all become inauthentic because we don't stand in our places because we don't want to be what we should be." It seems to me that there is a very strong issue in the core of today's social problems, and, just to conclude, of course, Mr Minister, I would like to warn you that this change in our school legislation will not be enough. It's just, I hope, step one. Thus, in our school much more will have to be done to these goals, such as education for tolerance, then to strengthen solidarity and responsibility, to teach young people to distinguish between good and bad, between real and complicated. Above all, it is the desire of young people to become good people and to imitate moral authority. If we do not achieve this, then our society, not only Slovenian, but also wider in the European context, will become more and more barbaric. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u94	Thank you very much. She would also like to discuss Mrs Potrat.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u95	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! All the insufferable ease with which we are seeking to amend this law actually upsets me and worries me because it does not show that these changes, which are important, would put an end to the process of amending school legislation. It was just possible to hear a call after the necessity of other changes, and many of these could also be heard on the committee. That is why I regret that, in the debate on the Committee, it was not possible to enjoy the company of the Minister and Madam Secretary of State, because then it would be time to discuss all the articles of this law. Now, because of a single amendment tabled, it is possible to talk about a lot of things in this amendment, especially about everything that needs to be said, and it is not up to the coalition to hear that, because it is fully convinced that the law it has decided to adopt will also be adopted. It is also likely that from this point on, the humiliation and absence of the working body, as well as the delay and introductory explanation. Let me take a look at the proposed amendment. The amendment is a result of an internal non-coherent bill based on very conflicting views that could be heard either at the time of the Minister's presentation of this function or at any other time and on what is enshrined in the Coalition Treaty. If the school is to be more delegated, if the school is to be more relaxed, if the school is to listen more to the student's wishes, and I am to say that if it is to encourage the child's joy at school work, then the Minister's desire for change should be focused as much on the release of the third subject in the test of knowledge as possible, not on the order. We can have very different opinions about things and thank God that we have them, but a long time ago the law on primary school was passed after a long public debate on this, including in the profession, with parents. And Mr Minister, only that long-standing debate can you refer to when you offer us this same long-standing professional debate on amendments to this law. There was no long-standing debate during this law. There's something else you can read. Therefore, it is now possible to hear what one of the experts who was heard on the committee to have supported the proposed solutions, as offered, only now was it possible to read about different solutions offered in public. The profession has not been unified until a different model of verification in the third or third three years and cannot be sold as a single professional position. What you are now offering us as a mandatory selection item, which will be chosen at the discretion of the Minister, will bring no less competition between individual subjects. There will be more, because the pressure on the minister will be such that in a certain year this and this object, and not the other, must be chosen. Which items will have priority? It is good that at least the ones now selected remain untouchable. Perhaps it would be appropriate for someone to check only foreign languages instead of Slovenian, without anything else or perhaps just physics. I don't know what anyone wants to check or what not. But the right of children would be that, quite as you now have done, an optional check at the end of the third year, this right also links to what is a free choice. To talk about the feasibility of verification due to the changes offered, due to the revised status of verification in the third triennial, that it is feasible, because of this increase, is simply larifari, I'm sorry. There's no way to convince me. You may have relied, I suppose, on the opinion of the Director of the Republic Audit Centre. I don't know why his claim made you feel that this is unreal. But what you can understand from your occasional explanations of this law is that you are most concerned about how much it will cost and offer us now as a main argument that it is less bureaucracy and that it is cheaper. Then it is best that you give up external verification. Be radical because you're a radical. Depending on how you take a professional opinion. What value will this verification actually retain? What is the forecast value of checking, after all, when you do not know what will affect the selection process, given that schools are limited in registration, and that you are not concerned that they do not know, those who finish what they will have to do in order to be able to get closer to what their wishes are. I'm sorry, I can't imagine how the selection process is going to go. If anything's unfair, that's it. Of course, because you probably like to hide things like a snake's leg, because of the fact that you will, of course, have, I hope, more happy hands in this than you have in some other offered solutions that are supposed to solve some problems than manna from the sky. But what you do in primary school with this bill is manipulation. She's not the first, and I'm afraid she's not the last. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u96	Thank you very much. I would like to invite Mrs Zalokar Orazem to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u97	The content of the amendment before us is, in fact, very indicative of the whole picture of the change in the law that we are considering. On the one hand, this amendment to the law was prepared entirely without analysis, without wider consideration, without the inclusion of the profession. We on the committee of the Secretary of State, Mrs Zevnikov, have not been able to hear or have heard the names of some experts who are supposed to be involved in the drafting of this law, but who later publicly denied it and denied support for these changes. In short, without all arguments, a law is prepared that I think is part of those laws that we have recently passed and we are getting into Parliament, which I call like laws. At first glance it is a matter of readiness to show people how quickly we know how to listen to them, especially those who have seen some problems in this area, and of course, here we are only interested in universal approval and applause. However, I have already heard that you, Mr Minister, are a little bit surprised because you were expecting - this has been said at some expert meeting - even more applause in this regard, and that your surprise was expressed that you were actually expecting more support in this matter, but the matter went relatively well or not, despite the pressures exerted on it, it could be supported. I must say that I fully support this amendment, because, on the one hand, this is the likeness that I have just discussed and on the other hand, the proposal that the third subject be decided by the Minister. For a very long time - we had several options: for a while only a minister, then there was a solution with a commission that was supposed to propose this matter to the minister. The fact is, however, that students will be in a very unenviable position. We do not trust them to choose a third object for themselves to choose it according to their own will, after what they are more interested in, but they will wait somewhere for almost the entire school year, which item will now be chosen by a national will, and in which we will then have to prove ourselves. But here I see a very high lack of confidence in taking into account, in fact, the wishes of the students, their interests, their affinities. Regarding the changes, I said that this amendment points to a whole image, I would also like to read it myself from a diary that was written in one of our regional newspapers a few weeks ago by one of the principals with a very long practice, she has a very independent attitude, she says in this journal: "Surely, the generation of children in nine years are better prepared to participate, work and are more ambitious. So I can't label a nine-year-old as just good or bad. I think we have to wait for the final evaluation until all Slovenian schools go through the entire nine-year-old." But, - says this principal - "for God's sake, don't make changes every year!" We have been tired of every year's changes, tired of the fact that the country responds to every criticism, to every yawn and introduces a new change. Every reform takes time, and in particular school time. Let them give us time." I think this action goes against what the principal wants. Today, we have also had many opportunities to hear about knowledge, knowledge problems, work, and effort. I'm sure it's all this school. And I think that this law, which is kind of a diversion against knowledge before us, is starting to take knowledge of its value, its effort, because quality will not be measured just like that. It will be more important to be liked by the teacher, to choose in such or other manipulative ways a good feeling and this assessment and, of course, it will also be what is supposed to decide the transition to secondary school. I'm talking about other criteria, I'm sorry, I haven't been able to hear anything until today. In fact, I am very interested in what will now be the way they will go to high school and with what standards they will go to high school, because there is a whole range of schools that have problems with overwriting and will have to introduce this selection in some way. Now that was some way that I thought was relatively objective, now that is coming, a way that will be very personal, which will be very, I will say, done at the level of some individual matters, which is certainly not good. There is nothing known about these transitions from a nine-year-old to a secondary school programme. This only gives me so many more arguments that I cannot support such a law in any way. What we have been able to read in the newspapers so far, I have been following very closely, the way that points will also be given, for example, for many years playing in the school theater - although I love myself very much and I also played in the school theater - or visiting a choice subject of religion and ethics, and of course the schools here should decide for themselves what will happen. If we're talking in this field, I think that everything that goes in this direction is significantly less objective than what we've had so far. Significantly less objectively, it is likely that sports achievements, cultural achievements and activities will be counted. And where there is something objective about such important things that the primary school will be able to enroll in, and where all students and students, as well as parents, are extremely sensitive. In this field I expect very, very many problems and these things will all show up in the future, probably as one of the experts said - but this is one of those real experts who is really dealing with it all his life - who said, "Too easy to give up external tests of knowledge can still be avenged." And I think we're really close to having this bad effect. Well, and allow another thought from this journal, which I have already mentioned: "Yes, there is a silent monster crawling in our schools called neglect, tiredness and completeness. It's like I've already convicted these kids of having no future. It's like school is a bitter pill that needs to be swallowed as soon as possible and with as little effort as possible. It's like these kids aren't fighting for jobs in front of them. Today's society is an instant society - add, mix, enjoy and enjoy. No one thinks that this comfort has to be earned and paid and that children will have to work hard to maintain the comfort that their parents are accustomed to someday. No children are required today. Rarely do they clean their rooms, even less are involved in household work. Anything is allowed most of the time. The mothers bring the children to the first grade and inform the teacher that by that day no one has forbidden anything to her child, does not know what it means: no." In short, I would like to say that it is so pleasing to adapt legislation to certain criticisms, especially at the expense of some enormous burden on children, also at the expense of these criticisms, which have been expressed in this way and which teachers also perceive as criticisms that do not have the right basis. And I estimate that all of us will still be very, very warm this loving search for confirmation for your promises, and I am sure that, Mr Minister, you are making a big mistake in this matter.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u98	Thank you very much. We continue with the lesson, pardon, with a debate which has so far been joined by another Member and eight Members. I would like to take the floor with you, Ambassador Mojca Kucler Dolinar.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u99	Thank you very much. When I hear this, I think it would be very useful for members of the opposition to put these concerns into such a form in the debates when the system that is now in force is already under way, that is to say, an existing system. However, it is certain that the discussions will continue. We started in that debate when we talked about TIMSS, we are continuing today, and it seems that this will not end immediately, especially in the direction of the revisions of the existing system. Today, the opposition Members remind us in particular of two words, the word "intentious" and the word "intentionable". I think it's more than obvious that the nine-year-old's system at the time of its introduction has not been completed enough, and it's preposterous if I use the word used by both former Minister Dr. Gaber and his fellow Member Moze. As far as liking is concerned, I think we have today some changes that are needed. So much for the introduction before I focus on the amendment itself. It is clear that it is more than reasonable to try to complement the existing system. No one today says that the system is just bad and that it would probably be very difficult and somehow inappropriate to hear that the system is only good. As far as the professional public is concerned, I myself have read the views of the work of the professional public, who supported the matter and the proposal of the law that we have before us. As I am aware, the Institute for the Development of Education is also supposed to be involved, and I certainly think that this is part of the professional public. However, as regards the verification that these checks should primarily be checked by teachers as to how they work. I don't think it's a good message from this National Assembly that we're talking about vetting teachers, because then the students are going to give up their hands and they're going to say, because we're checking teachers, they're not going to take this seriously enough. In each comparison, it is useful that the starting point is the same, so that the students can be checked among themselves, so that the students can be checked among themselves at the same level and not least in a particular subject. That is why I think it is an appropriate proposal and the solution for this third proposal to be set by the Minister, so in addition to Slovenian and mathematics, the third subject is chosen by the Minister. I think so, because this avoids the situation that only three representative subjects become, but also that in addition to a teacher of Slovenian and a teacher of mathematics, there is only one teacher of fear that is exciting, that is, the one where the subject will have to be done. Minister, I don't think even when I'm listening to this debate when I'm talking to parents who have school-bound children, they're not going to have an easy task, not even in the future. He will have to continue to work with the professional public, teachers, parents, and also on the issue of level learning, but above all I think about the issue of education and the creation of a positive climate among students, i.e. among fellow students. In all of this, all of us, too, I want great happiness and these real hands and measures of reason to shape change. However, as we should wait until a certain time and then prepare a proposal for amendments, I fear that after four years we would not have found that we have missed something, and it is better that we study and decide on specific cases. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u100	Thank you, too. I invite Mr Veršnik to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u101	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members, Mr. Secretary! I simply cannot support the proposed amendment. I want to explain a few things to you. Your Honor! Have you ever wondered how much it has cost us to introduce a nine-year-old? You'll probably tell me if the questions of money for our children are pointless or even inappropriate. I agree that our children are our wealth and the guarantee of our existence and progress. However, I am sure that the contribution to the reform of education was also so great that we paid everything that someone invented, so we have in the system of such anachronisms as today's knowledge check in the first and second triads. Checking in these two triads has no other purpose than to check on teachers who are no longer teachers, not even teachers. But they are ordinary administrators and tamers of uneducated students and their parents, unfortunately. At the end of the school year, they are threatened and blackmailed in various ways. Some even go so far as to convey their dissatisfaction to the Ministry of Education and send such a teacher an inspection. Once it detects no irregularities, it completes its control with the instructions, make the evaluation less rigorous. However, verification is also linked to the earnings of preparers, printers and assessors. There are a lot of people involved in this chain, and there are just so many different interests. In view of these and similar findings, I believe that the amendment of the law is only the beginning of the necessary changes to the rules in education, so I believe that it is necessary to support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the basic school law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u102	Thank you. Mr. President, Mr. Friend has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u103	Dear Presidents, colleagues, colleagues! Allow me to rephrase the thought I've already said on my mother's working body on the education committee. That is, the ministerial function is a political function; therefore, by all normal logic, the minister should not and would not be able to decide what will be the third subject in the school. If we accept this today, then tomorrow we will have a faith in school, and the day after tomorrow we will be able to have a homely education with the creation of facts about half past history. This could happen to us! Therefore, I think that we should strictly take into account what is written in the constitutional provisions and decide for ourselves to leave the professions to what will be the third object. Therefore, colleagues and colleagues, I call you myself to reason, and I would ask you to make a wise decision that this saying will apply: "Only the shoes belong to the hooves". Today we can really make a big mistake. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u104	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Barovic to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u105	Thank you. Two questions and a fact, short and fickle. I'd understand everything, but I don't understand why the suspension of external checks after the first triad, if the check wants 93% of the students. The second question is: Why a mandatory test after the third triad if it is not taken into account? And on these two unanswered questions, the fact is: take your mind into your hands, colleagues and colleagues, and accept our amendment if it is already a Slovenian language, which I am proud of, who is determined if mathematics is determined to determine a third subject for himself, of his own accord and of his own ability. Let's not give birth and make uniformed "incyber" kids.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u106	Thank you. Mr. Petan is not here. Mr. Jerovšek, you have the floor. And he was gone? You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u107	The change in the law on primary school is, I hope, one of the initial steps in cleaning the elementary school from LDS's liberal leftist delusions, which were many. In fact, it is not particularly surprising that this reform, which was introduced at the time, was intended to cover even greater errors that were represented by this so-called targeted education. However, since this reform was mainly carried out by the largest, the most zealous advocates of targeted education, it is logical that they could not eliminate all the negative consequences and also identify themselves against them. And look, I have to say that in principle I object to most of these external checks, because I believe that the school ministry also has instruments or should be reinstated to oversee the implementation of the learning process in the programme through the education institution. These mechanisms have once been very well established in our country and have produced results. Then they invented all kinds of external checks, from kindergarten literally to graduation. And I must say that with certainty we can say that this way of external graduation, as it is with us, has many negative consequences. I am not against the prom, but the qualifications of students based on the results of the graduation is one of the biggest errors in us and recently, when the higher education committee discussed in Maribor, virtually all the Deans of the University of Maribor attached to this. They found serious consequences, 70% of students or students do not study what they would like to study and are highly frustrated during the study. The result is that only 15% of the students then graduate, as we were told in Maribor, and these students have to decide in the third year from which subjects they will make the graduation, when the personalities have not yet been built. And yet to report on these delusions is actually very painful, the authors do not want to admit them, and even the path of repairing delusions is now very difficult. When we're talking about this amendment and when a colleague here is talking about supporting it for freedom. See if this is a criticism of the systems so far - then I accept it, but now it has been through this external examination, and this graduation, externally, has been abolished all the freedom of the teacher and the student. There's never been so little freedom in our school! And that's why I think that this change is actually positive, and that's why I'm so surprised that a fellow Member used the term "insufferable ease". I think that in its implementation it was to feel'sufficient waste' in spreading words. But given her political views, I believe she was once one of the most zealous advocates of targeted education. And now to talk about the intolerable ease of changes to this law, when it comes to a minimum correction, I find it very unreasonable. And I must say, I'm not in favour of this amendment either. In fact, if there is a verification, then it makes sense that this third object moves from one object to another every year, so that we get some insight into the different objects that we get through these checks. I firmly believe that the proponents did not mean seriously with this proposal, but they had to find something, some basis, on which they stuck, that they could also put their views here. If it is already, I say, this verification, then I believe that it is necessary to leave this discretionary right for the Minister to choose one subject each year, because the supervisory function of the educational institution has been abolished in the meantime, so that the implementation of the curriculum has not been effectively controlled, it is likely that this is necessary for teachers to be monitored in such a way. I would like to point out once again that those who are so zealous in defending these solutions and those mistakes that have been made in the school system from this targeted education forward and from failing through this reform of yours, are seriously considering the consequences of starting with constructive proposals for our children to achieve better results in these international checks. Why, though, does the results of international checks deteriorate and are poor if the school reform is so brilliant. But you have always and always complemented that these are the best teaching experts, the most intelligent, all the others you've put in nothing, all the others know nothing, - the results should be here, but unfortunately there are no results and therefore I say that this is the first step in correcting error. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u108	Thank you very much. The pinch of humor or pauperism is probably not too much in Parliament, but I am still asking you not to make fun of the names of your colleagues and colleagues. Thank you very much for your insight. I would like to take the floor with my colleague, Mr Zagorec.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u109	Thank you for your words, once again, in this very important law, at least it seems important to the opposition Members. I believe that the Members of the ruling coalition just have to speak as you say here, but I know you don't think so, at least he knows seriously, as you do, that it's not serious, and we don't. For, to talk about that the current government proposal will give some insight into where knowledge in children creaks - I don't think you can believe this, because every year there will be a new subject! I don't know how you'll get - to be appointed by the minister - I don't know how you can talk about getting a glimpse of where the knowledge of a child creaks. For a little while, that's not what you're doing together. And when someone talks about financial resources and the rationalisation of education, it may not seem to you that there are too many other areas in which the country should and could save, not to save on knowledge, not to save on children that we have heard three times in a Member's speech today, that they are our future; we would save where we should not save ourselves. Last but not least, I think that it is bad and, on the one hand, unrealistic and inconsistent from Members that you must hide behind the true facts that this law is supposed to bring unless we adopt an amendment. The real fact that you want to do is, in fact, a step toward introducing religious instruction or a believer into schools. Any nodding with your head may now seem appropriate, but consider, this subject will change for as long as you do not legalize religious teaching. Once religious instruction has been enacted, the simple choice of ministers, if the existing minister remains, will be known in the future! It won't be the choice of children, but it will remain known. Verouk will be that third object of choice. This is the truth you're afraid to tell here today, but you're hiding behind the financial consequences, and you're hiding behind it to figure out where the knowledge in our children is creaking. Please! Who are you trying to fool? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u110	If I understand correctly, Mrs. Shirca, would you like a replica? No, no, no. I'm sorry. Then I invite Mr Ljubeljska to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u111	A respected choir! Dear Minister! Respectable others present! I don't know what else to say that I like or that I don't like, which has not already been said today. I do not support the proposed amendment with a number of aspects. First time. The proposed amendment is contrary to the concept of the proposed amendment of the law, but it goes into the concept of the current law, where the assessment of the examination of knowledge was part of the final evaluation of the ninth class, and it was therefore reasonable and kind to offer the student a choice of his own subject to correct the final assessment by which he would enter high school. However, since the proposed amendment of the law substantially changes this as the external audit assessment does not go into the final assessment, the drafter wishes only to receive feedback on the knowledge of an object which is required in the subject matter of the primary school. Another time. The proposed amendment also reopens the problem that is present in the law so far, namely how to carry out the procedure for national knowledge testing, which the school profession says is difficult to implement for the entire population, both human resources and time. However, the proposed law significantly simplifies this process in this part, while still obtaining feedback on the knowledge of pupils on an important subject, as determined by the Minister on the basis of the opinion of the competent expert body. I am convinced that this change by the Minister and his expert team is well-thought and coordinated by the expert, for which the Minister stands for change with all his responsibility. Third time. The proposed amendment still wishes to preserve the existing state of affairs in a certain part; the situation under which the former school minister and part of the highest school term stand. The results of the international study TIMSS 2003 on the knowledge or ignorance of our primary school students show that there is an urgent need for changes and different approaches in our school system. Changes are required and are also expected by the critical school professional public, the school children and parents themselves. However, all these facts and the reasoned debate so far on the parent committee and here in the National Assembly of Coalition Members have not convinced the current opposition, particularly colleagues from the LDS and SD, to recognise that different approaches, changes and concrete measures are needed. They do not agree with any, nor do they agree with the slightest changes. This is also reflected in today's debate. And the amendment under consideration does not change that. I'm not a person who doesn't listen to different opinions on purpose, and the arguments can also convince me that I'm wrong. However, with this proposed amendment and today's debate, the opposition colleagues have not really convinced me. On the contrary! It all shows that some trends are so firmly anchored in our school system and in our school curriculum and so narrowly and captivally defended that they cannot be moved even by a ped. I'd expect a lot more self-criticism from a profession that has never existed before. Constructive and positive cooperation, rapid professional analysis and suggestions on how to raise the level of knowledge of our schoolchildren - none of what their public statements also show is about measures that border on parody, about voluntary approaches, to work hand-to-hand, that the matter is not overthinking and that it is done without experts. Much more pleasant and positive would be to hear: there were mistakes, something we need to change, it's a good solution, it's a good imagination and something like that. However, education is not a narrow group of experts seeking only their own interests. Education and thus the knowledge of children is a national interest that should have a leading role in our country. I ask whether we are not all really aware together that the knowledge of our children, their better future and thus the future of society as a whole, and that, as a country, we are obliged to provide them with quality education and comprehensive personality development, that our young generation will grow up to be widely viewed citizens, with appropriate working habits. Apparently, I was wrong when I thought we all had a common goal in Slovenia, that is, a quality school. In education, I stress that different approaches and changes are needed, not wisdom. The bill is only a first step to improve the situation and we will no longer have to conceal the failures of our children in international research in the future. The proposed amendment does not guarantee this, so I will not support it, and I will support the amendment of the law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u112	Thank you very much for the debate. Mr Kumer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u113	Thank you for your word. I know that I am not even capable of expressing my rhetorical views and thoughts in a lost diplomatic language, as my colleague Jerovšek did. But I will try to shape my position on the basis of the empirical perceptions I have from the environment in which I am moving, especially among young people and students. The first question, when I listened to this debate today, is why it is a school as an educational institution. Because of the minister, because of the ministry, because of us here in the hall, because of the teachers or because of the students? I think it's the students. That is why I fully support the amendment, which has been tabled for the third subject at the end of a nine-year-old to be selected by the students themselves, we say this mainly on their behalf. And why? We leave them with at least a minimum of free choice and not least, students and students attend school for nine years, the minister is four years old, they have a longer term, and we leave them with this choice here at least. In short, once again, I support the amendment tabled by the Slovenian National Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u114	Thank you very much. This has also allowed time for debate on Social Democracy. However, I invite Mr Petan to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u115	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! So, I support this proposal, which is based, without an amendment, because I believe that the proposal of this law somehow begins to pave the way, I will say, normalisation in this area, I will explain what I mean by this, that there will be no one who misinterprets. I represent the position, and this is not only my own, but I have been taught also by the so-called profession, that external verification, a large amount of external verification, is a complete non-trust to teachers, because such constant verification and such a quantity of external verification completely prevents the creativity of teachers and, of course, of course, of students. The fact is that such verification and hundreds or dozens of different commissions means great bureaucracy or, if you want, total bureaucracy until disability. A lot of commissions, a lot of controls - with checks - I mean those who are above some number that are unnecessary, which are self-inflicted, schoolchildren have recently just checked what they were prescribed yesterday, and today they have got their own, and then they need to be reconciled and put to life. They were constantly under stress, and most interestingly, the various computers at the Ministry of Education were the only ones who decided on everything, the status of teachers, their ranking, and the position of the student, whether they could sign up or not. And you have to be 100% that day, if you're not 100% that day, then you've wasted your whole life's career, because the only thing that's saved is the result that the computer found out, and virtually every thing has already been prescribed. But the fact is, of course, teachers had to supply only that prescribed substance in this terrible bureaucracy, whether they wanted to or did not want to, because this prescribed substance was then also assessed by external factors on students. With this they also received an evaluation of teachers and, of course, then a smart teacher taught only the substance that was somehow prescribed from the outside, and it was from the outside. Every creative profession from within, it is said, is a teacher, and of course, it was twisted not to say anything out of place, and the only salvation was this external check. And this external inspection is certainly not good in such a quantity. Besides, it's not good, it's not cheap. Now allow me: no matter where the funds are spent. If funds are used for various commissions that are not needed, for various external checks across all borders that are not necessary, money is spent, but we do not have money for one good equipment in schools and, as far as I know, for some generation knowledge, good equipment is essential than 100 certain commissions that only bother everything in order - from students to teachers. But it is true, and here I agree with everyone who said today that teachers are tired of changes. Not only are they tired, "full suitcase" have these changes! When I just prescribe them all so easily. But, respectable, such changes and fatigue from the changes and the "continuity" in school at this time cannot be the result of this government and this minister, who is in this position - how many, three, four months. If this has happened and this has happened, only to a greater extent, as a result of some previous system, some previous policies, some former ministers, some previous governments, and if you are so critical of yourself, I give you this as a positive one, I consider you positive. It is true that what you have been saying, teachers are tired of these changes and this system needs to be stabilised and burdened by these constant Damocles swords that hang over everyone's head from constant controls and similar nonsense that also occur in school. However, even if such a system is not good, it is not healthy, it is not effective and does not affect knowledge, and the results of TIMSS are called an international, international verification. I mean, why did I say "international" twice? For a simple reason, because we could hear at home how this school system of ours was the best in the world. But if it's not the best in the world, at least in Europe. Yes, because we were comparing ourselves! At that time, we are always the best, the most effective and the most fantastic. Now that we can even publish a little bit wider - of course there are resistances - we are also the results of international verification, and we are no longer the best, and so is the sobering up. Of course, I'm willing to try to take this off that positive side, and we're trying to do something to make these results better in the next test in due course. I am sure that such a law before us is one of those stones that will bring with all that is yet to come, that our international comparisons will also be slightly better international. And I'm saying that the current system wasn't the worst, of course, but it wasn't as good as we always said. The fact is that such a system has been stressful for students and teachers, that it is a complete distrust of teachers, because it completely cancels their creativity, it is also expensive, and it is expensive in bureaucracy, not in the practical work where it should be expensive. And it's not effective? This is proved by the results of the TIMSS. I'd say I don't agree with those who say the marriage is nice. However, I am convinced that this law is practical and that it will also lead to better international verifications in the final stages, and I therefore support the basic proposal that has been tabled without any additions or amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u116	Thank you very much. I note another interesting correlation that the number of applications is inversely proportional to the time available for discussion. So less time, more applications. And it's up to Mr Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u117	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, distinguished Mr Minister with co-worker! First of all, the amendment, which I understand as the efforts of colleagues and colleagues from the Slovenian National Party to improve the primary school system, if I can say so to this legislation, where we obviously feel some cracks. I respect the diversity, but unfortunately I can't support the amendment. I'm not a master metaphor, so I'm trying to simulate the acceptance of this amendment. On the basis of the free choice of the third subject for the final national examination of compulsory education, there would certainly be strong geographers, excellent historians, excellent physics and so forth. I wonder how useful this data would be for an individual student, his primary school, the region or the country. The quality of primary education would thus be measured by different measurement units or even different measuring instruments. With regard to the selection of objects, the possible selection of objects, and this. I'm wondering what nine-year-olds and nine-year-olds would choose. I have the answer. From experience in the experimental introduction of a nine-year primary school in the home primary school and with his son: the number or number of selected selection items offered by a nine-year-old, and which we are actually applauding all the time, is, excuse me, Larry Fari. This range of selected items can only work in large primary schools, unfortunately not in small ones. For example, the student chose three choice subjects, and none of them were successful. They joined him to that group of students, who - not to be offended by my students - chose objects from physical education or music education on the line of least resistance. I'm afraid it's a practice. Of course, I say that primary school will be as high - quality as parents, teachers, and students will be. A loving parent is certainly not the father who spent an hour and a half at a parent’s meeting and then realized that he had come to the wrong class, that his son was in the second grade. It's certainly not the kind of teacher who said that she would leave her soul at the school door for that kind of pay, she'd go to school, she'd throw away her few hours of school, she'd go out, and then she'd pick up her soul and go home again. And it is certainly not one of those who, through the world of the institution, did not allow the institution's activities to include education, neither in one, nor in the other, nor in the third attempt, because it is said to have been ordered from Ljubljana. Of course, I want our elementary school, which I think is very important, very lucky. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u118	Thank you very much. I would like to take the floor with you, Ambassador Shirca.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u119	Thank you. Dear Minister, the immeasurable Beast! "The school is a place of fear and anxiety," you said in September in Democracy last year. "We must bring more relaxation to the outside. Released school for a freed Slovenia," you said. Today we are talking about a so-called freed school for a uniformed Slovenia, because this is how I understand what the amendment supports and what we will support ourselves. "Students are divided into perspectives and less perspectives," you said, "that's what we're going to do." But just by taking their choice and when you're that arbitrator who knows what the student wants, what he thinks to do in life, because after all the choices for the selection object is in some way always an eminent decision for further study or further work in life and guidance. They decide what is close to them and what is far more distant from them. They decide whether or not they will be forced to examine physics, for example, and they are themselves sociologists by mission, by command, by interest. You're going to make them less promising because you're going to crush this decision. Of course, in this sense this amendment, which is the same to our committee, is, of course, meaningful, only reasonable and also the only one who leads to what you say - a freed Slovenia for a relaxed school. The debate on changes in the law in primary school is mainly about professional issues. The answers, of course, have far-reaching consequences, you know, not only for 180 to 190,000 students today, but also for Slovenia in general. You are not aware of this; this is the problem, otherwise we would not propose changes that do not have sufficient analysis and are unthinkable and do not have sufficient expertise in the background. Today, this expertise, which has been fuelled by the changes that have been made to date, has been too much - but because there have been too many of them, we must immediately introduce another one - today this expertise is not only cutting off, but it is underestimating. Because the only expertise that you bring is ingenuity and at the same time savings. This is your argument - we will save because we will not pay some commissions just like that, something empty. Please! Why do I get the feeling that you've decided to change the law for one simple reason? You're relying on something that's only going to happen that's different from what it was before -- from what was "theirs" kind of thing. But the representatives of the various concepts have clearly defined themselves, and this has also been written that external verification of knowledge is meaningful and necessary; this is empirically also proven. Personally, I do not think or deny the necessary debate on possible changes, but it cannot happen again, again, quickly; not only with you, not only with other government segments. In doing so, we need to know what is really wrong, how to fix it, and what we really want to achieve. The goal should be clear, not just that withdrawn anxiety and fear that has some flat-rate conclusions. In short, it has been repeatedly said that the suspension of external verification is, in fact, contrary to many claims. However, I would like to remind you, Mr Minister, that it is contrary to what is said today to be quite different from the adoption of new school legislation. Let us remember what it was like to adopt new school legislation. At the time when it was last changing, the amendments were proposed by those who wanted to turn the flow elsewhere today, said and also proposed - namely, that at the end of the first or third period two more items should be checked, namely, the practical expression in music and visual education. In short, not only are you on your side at the time, I'll say, options, if I take your terminology, support what you deny today, but you're still spreading and further seeking to commit to the verification that you deny today. This brings me back to another conclusion, namely, to some nonconsistency or to the fact that you yourself are not convinced of the solutions you are offering. You did, after all, even at the "hearing" itself. And more than that, you said that you would not bring any radical interventions into such a sensitive system as the school system, because we know that this is an important - and then you have expressed yourself that way - the social subsystem that shapes, informs people, personalities and the consequences of such changes can be not only far-reaching but also very catastrophic. In such an important segment it is appropriate to interfere with intelligence, with verification and certainly not with uncertainty, instability and professional support, as you yourself come. In this sense, I reiterate that at least this amendment may allow a little more freedom than you bring to school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Mr Germich is next.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u121	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Vice President. Mr. Minister, co-worker, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Of course, general human wisdom says, "Hop first, jump first." As we listen to these discussions today, when we analyze the draft amendments to the law that is before us today, I feel that the jump has already been made, that we are already in the air, but we do not know where we are going to land. There was nothing they heard about saying "hop." This would also be reinforced by events related to the drafting of this text, because I myself have had the opportunity to speak with many, because I wanted to hear a wide variety of opinions on the content of the proposed amendments. Of course, there are many voices that feel alienated from the possibility of expressing their opinions in order to participate in the formulation of the proposed changes, both from teachers, principals and parents. I have also paid particular attention to your reply yesterday, Mr Minister, to the question posed by your fellow Member Mojet as an introduction to today's broad debate and, let's just say, we will be discussing exercising so widely today. Of course, I have also understood this explanation in such a way that the time taken for this by Members will be approximately equivalent to that given to you by the Government. But I was very uncomfortablely surprised, as I saw you chose seven minutes for your opening statement and five minutes for your conclusion. Of course, it is possible to count on the solidarity of the coalition to give up its debate and perhaps give you a chance to say more, but, of course, I would not want to get the feeling or confirmation of this feeling that the time you have chosen confirms this ease, which has also been discussed today, to the content that we are discussing here today. I cannot agree with myself that this is a small change that we are introducing here. All those who have ever worked in education know that parents and students, when having their problems, cannot think about what needs to be done in the system, but they are interested in their own problem. Today, when we talk about how we deal with transitions from primary to secondary school as a result, these are very important issues that have been going on for many years. Today, 30 years ago, I enrolled in today's third grade in Maribor. In the class, there were more or less excellences themselves, which according to the high school program was somehow expected. We came from a variety of backgrounds. And look at the experience in the first half of the evaluation period. We were 42%, so it was the greats themselves. That's when I asked myself how that was possible. Mr. Sok says it's quite simple. I have had the opportunity to study both at the university and in high school and to be the principal of one of the secondary schools, given that I have been dealing with the identification and quality assurance of the school system for a number of years. And I must say that the issue of evaluation was one of the red or the discussions of the entire school years that I was in school. It was very important to distinguish between verification and evaluation of knowledge, which was often a big unknown to parents, the general public, what is the difference between one and the other. And today it is easy to say that by externally verifying knowledge, we want to exercise only control over the teacher and actually reduce him in his creativity. My experience is very different, because discussions at professional assets, at departmental teaching meetings, at conferences proved exactly how much creativity and ideas were produced both from the point of view of teachers and students, students and parents through the parenting world, through direct interviews. Many of these things enabled this school system to be involved and implemented in the educational process. Today, to talk about the failure of the school system means that we do not know the content with which we work with students, students in school. Today, when we talk about how we monitor the work of teachers, not by monitoring them, but by monitoring the work of teachers, today we are talking about how they are cemented and, on the other hand, we are talking at the same time about how it will be necessary to establish some control systems through the educational institution. And at the same time today, as we listen to this debate, we agree that there have been many changes in the ion that it is time for the number of changes to be reduced, while at the same time predicting that today only the beginning of a broader, longer, shorter period of all changes, which are also equipped with the expression that leftist, liberal democratic delusions must be cleared. Of course, such messages to the Slovenian public are not good. There are also not good fake messages about the events where we attended others, not only Mr Jerovšek, this is at a meeting of the Higher Education Committee at the University of Maribor, because it was not nearly as said here today. However, we are all aware that the transition system from primary to secondary school is a demanding process. If we're talking today about giving the teacher a valid assessment, I think we're talking about something that exists today. I don't know from my professional experience in education that the teacher's grade didn't have a weight. I don't know this from the past, and I'm sure from today's trials, from the testimony that this is still the case. Of course, it makes sense to develop ways to monitor the work of the educational process in school through the work of teachers, through external verification, which gives us additional information and possibilities for correction. Here I would also draw attention to this fact that has been said here today. Involvement of the external evaluation in the final assessment represents 15% of the failure. I would point out here that article 73 of the existing law of the current law allowed for so-called additional passages, close passages that clearly indicate that a student, a student who was 80% successful, had made progress under certain conditions, so he was successful that a student who was 90% successful in a particular subject could make progress. This means that much has been taken into account in the consideration of what is evident here today. And today to compare it through graduation and to give it as an example, it seems to me again that I don't know it. If you know the conditions for admission to college, then you could clearly see what weighting of different competences or different components, conditions, has to meet some student to enter a particular university. I would therefore like to support here the amendment tabled by the Slovenian National Party on the arguments already put forward here many times today. Here I also think it is extremely important that the message we Slovenians like to talk about so much - it doesn't matter if I have a dead calf, the point is that it is also a neighbor. Of course, I find it more meaningful and optimistic, just as the Prime Minister's speech in Cankar's home recently ended, to speak in such a way that I would therefore like the neighbor to have a calf, and it would be nice for me to have two. So, build with optimism. And this free choice of subject allows the student to put himself in an optimistic role to put himself in proof of his expression of the most powerful competences. And it seems to me that this kind of orientation is continuing in primary school as well. In fact, the credit system speaks of the student being able to choose between his or her areas of interest by proving his or her best competence. That is why I will also support the amendment of the Slovenian National Parties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Just a brief notice about the time for discussion. If there's any time left, we'll distribute the rest among any debaters, and the minister will be able to reach an additional five minutes. This makes it possible for us to have rules of procedure. I now call to the floor, Madam Ambassador Žgajner Tavš.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u123	Thank you very much again for your word. I must say, I was expecting a slightly more constructive debate on the amendment. However, it is difficult to discuss constructively if the debaters do not know what to discuss or will improve if they do not actually know the contents of the amendment and even less the content of the law that we are adopting or dealing with today. Today we have heard quite some interesting content under this amendment or law. External knowledge check is a mistrust to teachers. But let me remind you, colleagues from ruling parties, that external verification of knowledge remains even after the amendment of the law made by your government or Minister of the Beast. It is only the abolition of external verification or external verification of knowledge after the first three years and certain changes in the context of national knowledge verification or external knowledge verification after the third three-year period, i.e. after nine years. Some other very interesting findings. Prescribing teaching materials from the outside, that bothers you. What I'm asking is, isn't the Minister's definition of the third selection item just a prescription of the substance from the outside? And you want or strive to see that the knowledge of Slovenian elementary school students is also tested in the international field. In the international field, how can it be possible to check the knowledge of Slovenian elementary schoolchildren, if, on the other hand, you do not allow or oppose external examination of knowledge? I have to say, I feel really bad because some people just don't understand what they're saying. As they do not understand when they say that the nine-year-old system has not been completed, it is necessary to build on positive effects, not to alter or even abolish these positive effects. We do not hear any real, professionally justified reason, in particular, within the framework of the amendment tabled by the Slovenian National Party, why the positive effects or why the third choice object should be removed or placed within the framework of the Minister. Each year, the Minister will determine what this third selection item will be. And then what kind of analysis is it possible to do on this basis? I've already told you that generations are different. Not one generation is like the previous generation. Therefore, the methodology or so-called Gaussian curve, which I have already mentioned today, is also used within the existing system. And there's something else that's interesting. We have heard today that there are no positive effects of the existing system or that teachers are no longer teachers or educators. If we knew the knowledge-checking system after the first three-year period, we would certainly not be able to claim this, because there is still some positive method of education in the existing system. And if you want, I hope that the Minister will also, in the extra time that he will get, if time remains, have the opportunity and explain to you, so to speak, to the members of the government, how the knowledge check takes place after the first three-year period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u124	Thank you, too. I invite Mr Marinič to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u125	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary with a co-worker! Dear colleagues and colleagues! I must say that I am richer after today's debate on the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Basic School Act. Many, perhaps from the left or from the right, have told me what I may not have known until today. I appreciate your expertise, which you have strengthened, not only theoretically, but also practically. Of course, I also find it very important to interfere with such laws as we do today in a shorter period of time. However, it seems to me that sometimes it is also necessary to say in some way and to say that what many have warned is to be taken into account. That is, as a result of these changes that we are considering today. I am confident that the Minister will run out of time and will not be able to say much of what he would like to say. Not that I want to defend him in any way. I would just like to say that I was present at a work visit where it was, I believe that about 20 principals of primary schools and over 100 teachers. And the law was practically already in place, and it was already under way, and the minister wanted to inform them of the intentions that were meant to be changed. I don't remember any of the principals or teachers then objecting to the changes. Of course, as a Member to me, this was also a confirmation that this was the right thing to do. Whether it's right or wrong, of course it'll show time. However, I believe that time and development are moving forward and that we will face some change in the primary school law sooner or later. This is, of course, a matter that lives and changes with the development of the people it is intended for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Regardless of the rules, elementary school students have at least one advantage over us. That they have a break every 45 minutes. We don't have it. That is why we are continuing the debate. I invite Mr Mojet to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u127	President, thank you so much for your word. We are certainly aware that all authorities are drooling to regulate the school space and through it have a political impact on the public concerned. Today, more people have been labeled by expressions that I find difficult to listen to, even harder to bear than the teacher who is in charge of this school process. I am proud to be a teacher, and I think our teachers in schools that carry out this educational process are good and quality. The writers were also drenched to influence the school’s field. Who doesn't know Cankar's Boys? Let him now go to the Slovenian National Theatre in Maribor, where the replay is about this and where it is very clear how the political system began to exploit the school field in a perfidious way. There's no better case than we Slovenians with Boys in history. Then someone comes into power and starts threatening the principals or calling them weird, and then he's gonna slow down on the teachers. Now, if everyone in the government is already scared, and so on, they will be in the field of salt, and that is very dangerous. On the other hand, those political forces that try to carry out quality education or influence education is inadequacy, and this in return offers them tremendous ease of government. And sometimes when we're looking for the reasons that led to this, it's also the catch 22. I, Mr. Secretary, don't know why you did it that way. The fact that you have proposed a reduced procedure is also a non-trust to Members and also a hinter to Members. That is why, thanks to the President, who leaves a broad debate, but if we just talk about the amendment, it would be a quick end to what we are talking about. Mr. Minister, I'm sure you and your advisors, especially counselors, know better, because you weren't, but don't mind, so far known as the school field co-creator. The colleagues you have, and even the crowd, were therefore to warn you, for the first time, that when we went forward after one experiment in the introduction of a nine-year-old, we also provided for at least two things by law. One thing is to follow this, under the terms "experiment or school reform", on the other hand, we also said that some groups should evaluate it. I think it would be very wise for you to look at the results of the monitoring and the results of the evaluations and then take action on the basis of this and move on to a change in the school system. Your way, but also, forgive the expression I used yesterday, but it's "a bulldozer kick in the school field," because all you have to say is that everything wasn't bad before and that you've settled into a pretty laid-up legislative ministry. But let's put this aside now. I say that I too am using this, which my colleagues used before, including Mr Jerovsk. The fact that you did this by not leaving the normal procedure, not going into doing it through the expert bodies, suggests that you went to the door - on the nose. And I am afraid that even then certain things that you will bring to the National Assembly will be as unconsensual or with as little consensus as this one, cause us to slowly, during your ministry, to scatter education in the Republic of Slovenia, as you know that due to national interest, it would not be good. If I am now looking at this first article, which excludes the first verification after the first triad, then it is necessary to say, and also to take some analogy, why these external checks have also been introduced. We all know that in the first triad, we have internal differentiation, in the second triad, flexible differentiation, and in the third triad, external differentiation. And look, when the student in the third triad gets involved in external differentiation, and at the beginning he won't even know what awaits him at the final examination of knowledge, it will certainly have an impact on how these decisions can be more questionable than they were now when the student tried - the law was so composed - in this last triad they tried to get their way, part of their way in life, where they would continue, because from primary school we either have vocational education or we have technical education or we have high school. I think that when you shut down the first level of external inspection, it's a blow to the parents' forehead. Parents, and so far they have used this for as long as it has been, not in this system, but in another, they certainly need information about how much their disciple in the first triad has acquired or will do with it. Maybe even with parents and teachers, it's kind of a compass about how in a class like this, which was externally checked, they're going to introduce a flexible differentiation: you have to do that more, you have to do that less, you have to do that, and so on. You know, Mr. Minister, that argument you're going to be a good master here that you've told me you're looking at state funds and that you're going to hope that this school will not be more expensive is not going to hold. A lot of people in this National Assembly, including some who are sitting in here, have always looked at the annual budget and were aware that quality education is also an expensive education. Even one other person who has the most money on this earth's surface said, "I'm not rich enough to buy cheap." And when we talk about savings in external knowledge testing for primary school, it seems to me that we are shuddering into this commodity, where there will be a lower quality, the first time that deprived parents and teachers will be, the second time, and especially in the last triad, when you've eliminated this knowledge check will no longer be a part of the possibility of entering forward, but in my opinion you opened Pandora's box. We'll see when you have to explain to your parents what model you'll put forward, how the public will react. That's why I don't think these changes are premeditated. In the field, Mr. Minister, the school field, we have been used to accepting all things in the package so far. At the same time, we did it when we put this together, kindergartens, primary education, secondary education, and we accepted it in the package. This acceptance now seems to me to be leaving open opportunities and not answering questions that are of interest to both parents and students and to the public concerned. And as you can see, Mr Minister, in this debate, also the vast majority of Members. For such a long time there has been no debate because they wanted to have quality education in the national interest of the Republic of Slovenia. This also means that this education, which is carried out through legal solutions, is professionally established. You didn't give us this, and that's why I think it's bad for you. However, the fact that students can no longer choose in the end will be the person who has survived, at least 20 years in school, who was the vice-president of the professional council of the Republic of Slovenia, who, etc., would not speak so much to himself, but I say that I have experience, but it is nice to say, a great earring to the students. With this student, when you narrowed down this choice, you made it impossible for one part of your freedom, but freedom in this sense, in order to choose that subject qualitatively, you learned it and you answered it the most, and you would help them the most in life. You've done this restriction to make one part of the school unfriendly. If I look at these last performances of yours, the distinguished minister, when you responded when we were in Maribor, it seemed completely incorrect to me your assessment of journalist Jasna Snezič. Yesterday, when we were talking, I find your remark about three ladies, etc. insulting. I'm asking you not to say that about people who are not present because these people can't defend themselves. In particular, I think what we are saying is that journalist Natasha Lanf from the national radio also hit her head in the morning forecast of today's work, where she says, "the international research clearly shows that the successful and most effective school systems, where knowledge standards are set at the state level and where they are tested through continuous evaluation and external checks on the skills of schoolchildren. In this way it is forced from school, teachers to quality work and reducing differences between schools." That's right. If you're going to introduce admission exams now, I've been sitting alone for 20 years on different committees, and people have come here, not to resent, but from rural schools, and from urban schools, which they could have had, as my colleague said, already one other standard, and they were already completely inequitable here. On the other hand, they were also warmed by the fact that in schools where certain things were done, they might have crossed some part of the program, but, hell, it wasn't, and that might have been the question, and because he didn't know it, the whole way forward made it impossible for him. Although I will not support the law, I think that the party has made a similar amendment as we have given it, I will support it, and in terms of good cooperation, Mr Minister, from the field of school, I would urge you to try more professionally in the future to find out these things and it would not be bad if you tried to adopt such laws, given the comments that are in the home work body, a little cart to stop and try to reach a consensus that everyone here would gladly support, you and this country for good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u128	Thank you very much. I would also like to invite Mr Martin Kachur to the floor for a little joke, but I'm afraid he didn't get a mandate. But Mr Kovacic can discuss it. In the meantime, I'd like you to turn your phones down.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u129	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary, colleagues, colleagues! In today's debate, some members of the opposition have repeatedly spoken and referred to the profession, saying that the profession does not support the proposed solution to this solution that we have in the consideration that the government and the ministry are proposing to the State Assembly for admission. It is interesting that every time the opposition does not like something, this is almost always and almost everything the government submits to the National Assembly, it always calls for professional assistance. Of course, the profession imagines it in its own way. Only those in the so-called profession who are not in favour of the proposed amendments are representatives of the profession. These are, of course, those used by the former Minister and the previous government coalition to defend the solution of the former government. Even so, despite the fact that many of the earlier periods, as the Gabra School was publicly described, have proved to be inadequate and bad. The existing system has caused permanent dissatisfaction with the vast majority of all direct subjects of the school system. So between teachers, students and parents, and of course also within a large part of the professional public, because the professional public is not unique, but is a group of different individuals who do not all think the same. Thank God everyone's not thinking the same way. Although some of the opposition recognise only one part of this profession, namely the part that honks into your horn and advocates the solutions that you have adopted in recent years, and people today call them Gabro's School, as I have already mentioned. I do not believe that the proposed amendments fully address the problem of the former inadequate system. Change will be needed in the future. However, the proposed law still represents a step towards improving the existing situation, a step towards a more relaxed school, a step towards lower red tape in school and, last but not least, a step towards reducing the burden on pupils. External knowledge checks in three different periods did not meet the expectations of the authors of this system or, above all, the expectations of the Slovenian public. I also believe that, like some people before me, it was a matter of error, but today it should not be any more error. The results and experience of recent years have shown that something needs to be changed, as school reform has done too much damage to allow itself to wait indefinitely for something positive to emerge once in the future. Finally, the results of the recent international verification of TIMSS knowledge show that knowledge of Slovenian children is unsatisfactory. If nothing else, it's a sign of alarm and a sign of urgency for change. For experimentation has been sufficient in recent years, and we must make every effort to pull the wagon that has become mud into the mud out of this mud. This would also be expected from the opposition, which could be constructively involved in this project, to try to participate in the preparation and proposal of solutions that would improve the current situation. So it's a constructive attitude, but it's not like they're defending a condition that turned out to be bad and inappropriate. Although the proposed amendment is welcome in the right view to use this word, it does not fall within the concept of the proposed law on amendments and additions to the primary school law. The proposed amendment, on the other hand, increases red tape in the exercise of external knowledge verification, as the free choice of the third object means several times the increase in examinations, the increase in the professional and administrative examinations team. The very purpose of external verification cannot, however, be objectively assured, as it would be very difficult to evaluate all students in the same way or in the same way. The comparison between them would not be objective. I therefore believe that the proposed amendment of the Slovenian National Party is not acceptable and therefore I support the adoption of the proposed law which the Ministry or Government has prepared and submitted to the National Assembly for consideration, i.e. without all the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Just a request, even a loud whisper, can be disturbing. I would like to take the floor with you, Mr Magi. Squeezing.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u131	Mr Vice-President, Members and Members, Mr Minister, Mrs Zevnik, v.d. Director-General of the Ministry of Education and Sport. Today I would like to discuss not as a Member, but as a father to two children. Fortunately, my children have escaped this new Beast Reform. And as far as I'm aware, after about half your schooling abroad, you've spent quite a lot of years in the Slovenian school system. I have no feeling that after you came from abroad and studied in the Slovenian school system, you would experience something as inconsequential as some of you have debated here today. In fact, they were happy with what was called Gab's days and, as I'm told, they'd be afraid of the "beasts" or the minister's or the beast's object. A beast's object because, of course, it does not have a rule. I ask myself, as a parent, what is the purpose of this marriage? Is it intended to control teachers or is it intended to choose children? I believe that, above all, you should give children a choice, taking into account the complexity of the time ahead. Since the new government does not yet know or obviously does not want to respect the choice of children, of course I oppose the Government's proposal and support the amendment of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group. Members and Members of our parliamentary group have already proposed on the Committee on Education, Culture and Sport that they should postpone the debate on this law in order to obtain a qualified opinion from the profession prior to the decision. That would probably be for the best. Today's debate, and that's why I called, shows that this is just the beginning of changes in school legislation. That's why I think it would be better if you removed the law from the procedure. Above all, I suggest you, Members and Members, to write your magnetograms and what you've been talking about today, to talk to your children - as parents. For I hope, as it has been said today, that we do not have, as it has been said, left and right rulers, that we do not have left and right parents, but we have only parents who work for the good of the child. We don't have left or right parents. Why should we talk to our children? It is important to talk to the children because it is not important for you, as it appears in today's debate, that the bill is uninvented and does not rely on an expert argument that a number of institutions oppose the proposed solutions, that the professional public is not important to you, for example, that the professional public, such as the association of directors, does not support an important part of the changes. 20 directors of 475 primary school principals are far from being a statistically significant crowd on the basis of which it could be argued that there are no comments among principals. Maybe it's best that you talk about all this, talk to the kids. I highly recommend that. That's what my kids call me. They are absolutely for us to be able to have a third object as our own choice, that this Beast object or this Beast Choice is not "liked by the bats". They tell me that it is cool to have the option of choosing a third subject and of course agree in this respect with what the Slovenian Council of Experts for General Education also says. They don't like having the Beast's object. None of us will be in the LDS after the evening talk, nor will the proponents say that we know best how to change the law. However, we certainly believe from today's debate that open issues are too much to be closed by a harsh political decision. Perhaps it is best to stop this discussion and discuss this with the children. However, as the case of Mr Pukšič shows, there are different ways of talking to children. So, ladies and Members, when deciding on this section in the meantime, it would be good for you to talk to the children at home and simply ask them: do you want to have a decision on what the third subject is or will the Minister choose for you. In doing so, I also oppose the bill because, of course, there are many open questions such as: what will then be the transition from primary school to secondary school, you will reintroduce admission exams, you will replace external checks with even something else, or, if necessary, as we read in the newspapers, you will somehow replace incompatible administrators or something like that. I have read this recently, Mr. Secretary, your interview, and it has attracted special attention to one of your thoughts. And this thought of yours, and I fully agree with it, was that it was necessary to invest more in teachers. In public administration theory, this is perfectly logical. However, if there is a need to invest more in teachers, the question arises why you cancel the check at the end of the first period. Do you, like those who propose more investment in teachers, want to be without information about how teachers work all the way up to the age of six nine, or do we as parents really not want to have any feedback on how our children go there by the age of eleven or twelve? I will support the amendment of the Slovenian National Party because of all these issues. This raises the next question. In Slovenia, external verification of knowledge is necessary. Undoubtedly, this is also necessary because of the time ahead. Our children will have to have even more knowledge than they have been able to acquire in recent years. Therefore, there is no doubt that Slovenia needs external knowledge verification. However, how to organise this knowledge check does not apply to short-term or fast-track procedures and to predict radical changes in primary or other schools, but this is a matter for discussion in peace. That is why I propose, Members and Members, that it be best for the government to withdraw the proposal and to decide in peace sometime in the future. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u132	Thank you very much. I'd like to take a look at this place, too. In fact, earlier it was said or used the term "Gabro's Reform". Now I've heard of "The Beast's Changes." And I would warn you that you are two people with academic education, but you deserve to be addressed in the manner that is appropriate, Dr. Gaber and Dr. Beast. It certainly does not hurt the head from being too polite, especially in Parliament. I would like to take the floor with you, Mr Magi. Savoice.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u133	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! When we discuss these matters, I must say that education is an important area. Our old mother often said that even when it was bad, he always found money for the children, the priest, and the doctor. Now that I am reading these arguments that Mr Minister has stated why he is going into reform, money is one of the many cases mentioned. So, obviously, we're going so bad that we started "scramble" in children, as they say, at home, in Goranje. The old lady also said that every school costs something. I'm afraid that in the end, once we're back in four years doing these European comparisons, it's going to be very expensive. But I think we're saving on the wrong end. At the time when we separated the Ministry of Education from the Ministry of Science and Research, we had no money in the first place. And we don't have it today when the ministries are doing a lot of remodeling, removing even the floor, tearing down the walls, and so forth. Last but not least, we didn't have any money in the foreground in Maribor when we might be returning school facilities to the church too quickly. Apparently, money is not important at the time, but more important political interest than obviously political interest is even more important at the moment when we talk about school law changes, about exercisions, yes, about exercises. I must say, everything in the previous system, as far as education is concerned, wasn't bad. And whoever wants to make progress in this area should think in this direction, maintain what is good, and correct what was bad. As far as the extremities are concerned. I have a son who's been writing Slovenian essays today, and he's going to write them in math tomorrow. Two, three months ago, he had a math evaluation there somewhere between 3 and 4, and he thought about it, we bought him a book that allows him to externally verify knowledge, and he's been practicing since then. And from the initial test of the exteriors when he wrote 18, 19 points today, before he goes on the test, he easily reaches 26, 27 points. That is to say, some obligation that this expert means something to him brings progress. The boy thought of it, practiced it, invested in it, and I'm sure he'll upgrade his knowledge. Last but not least, the controls he used to write three, the last two he wrote were easy five. That's what it's called, an exterminator, no matter what she's forced to do, has a positive role to play in building up knowledge. And such cases would be right if the Minister, when considering these solutions, I suppose he is thinking well-intentioned, not politically, but well-intentioned, that there will be knowledge for more and more, not for the left, not for the right, but for all children, that such cases also take into account that, lastly, legislation is changing in this direction. I think this transition to high school is going to be more severe and even more painful if we cut the exterior. Last but not least, I strongly support what colleagues from a national party are proposing, saying that children are given the opportunity and the choice to choose their own third in addition to the two subject-matters that are required. This is, I think, a nice step forward towards knowledge and democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u134	Thank you, too. For the debate, I invite Mr Koren.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u135	Thank you for your word. From today's debate, I note that primary education is indeed an important issue. I think, too, that this is a very important matter. I'm going to say that school so far isn't just a bad school, but it's not just a good school. That's what I think we can all be together. However, I see from today's debate that it is very difficult to get somewhere on the way to this common goal, it is to the best school we want. We're on two shores of one big hill. There are several paths to the hill, but it is up to us which way we choose. I want you to choose the best way, the best way, with the best view. Maybe it won't be the closest, but the pleasure of getting to the top should be the greatest. For 12 years, I can say that I work closely with my primary school through my three daughters who are in primary school. Both at parental meetings and at holy parents and in the world of the institution. I can also say on the basis of these meetings that parents are dissatisfied with certain things, that teachers are dissatisfied with certain things and that directors are dissatisfied with certain things. And I think it's right that we're trying to change things for the better. I will only stop at the proposed amendment of the national party, where they propose that the third subject be selected by the students themselves. I say from my own experience of seventh grade selections that I don't agree with that. I'll tell you why. My daughter comes home happy from school and says we need to make a deal. "You know, now we're going to have three choices," she said. But the teacher told them, as well as the teacher, it is said that the professional staff must decide for themselves. "And here you will have no effect, I will decide for myself," she said. I said, okay. "What did you learn from the professional leadership?" I'm asking. They said that they must be aware that these items are being assessed that this assessment of the selection case can also reduce their success in deciding what they will be able to do. I asked her what she would choose. She said, volleyball, because all the girls at the club are going to be, and they're going to be touristic. Then I talked to her about what she thought would be important to her future life. What, for example, if you chose computer science, at this time of technology, it seems very important to me, then language skills. "No, that's what I'm going to have to learn," she said. "That's what I'm going to have to learn," was the answer. That's why I would say I don't support this amendment. I'd say I trust the minister more, that he'll make a wise decision. I think we have a smart minister, and it's not gonna be a stupid choice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u136	Thank you. Mr Gulic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u137	Respected and respected! I would like to speak again a few words on the proposal of the Slovenian National Party, which is the case, but I had earlier seen this about freedom. Now we have only two options: Whether the choice of the third subject is chosen by the Minister or by the students or students. I still say that this solution is better because it allows insight into both the student and the teacher. Of course, the comparative issue is not going forward. Surely, however, if the Minister chooses the subject himself, there is no way to compare it, because one will go into this knowledge with a greater will, the other with a smaller one and teachers will find it very difficult to compare on this basis. I've never touched the way it was with the exteriors after the first three years. However, I think it would be good for him to stay, especially because the six-year period is very long. However, we also know that international research is at this very time and it would be very good to have some insight into the knowledge of generations or at least work so that some minor changes can really be made within the system itself. These changes, which are now foretold, are certainly not petty, but are relatively very radical. On the other hand, we hear there's something wrong with prom. This was abolished once, if you remember, between 80 and 95 and 85-95 there was no graduation and, of course, problems in the field of higher education were even greater than they were. At that time, the rate of graduates within seven years was even lower than today. Slovenia seeks to become a knowledge society. This is stated on the position and opposition side. Obviously, we cannot agree on how to do this: either by facilitating knowledge or by letting things go. I think it's better if there's some control left. Now it's not about controlling teachers, it's not about controlling students, parents, the system, but it's about monitoring what's going on, and we can react quickly. Therefore, experts from the third grade of primary school also make sense, since they can make a difference. The sixth grade is then so distant from the very beginning that the repairs are impossible. That's one thing. The second thing I find strange about dealing with this is that Mr. Minister only took 7 and 5 minutes is 12 minutes to convince us of his right. 7 minutes at the beginning and 5 minutes at the end. It smells a little like that to me after what's been condemned, that's arrogant. Of course, this arrogance can also be a cover-up of ignorance. You know what it's like when the teacher asked Janek what's worse, ignorance or indifference, and he said, "I don't know, but I don't care." It's kind of like a story like that. Mostly, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! I think it would be good to support the amendment tabled by the Slovenian National Party. I think that Mr. Minister could also give up that discretionary right, because, in fact, he has nothing but a sense of power that he has anyway, and I don't think he has to back it up. If we don't, what's already happening to us is that the last expert on Saš Hribar's show, or his contribution to the Fifth Class Students. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u138	Thank you very much. I thank Mr Gulic and everyone else for helping me strengthen morale in this Chamber. Otherwise, I would like to invite a Member of Parliament, Dr Gabra, to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u139	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Look, when we are discussing these issues today, it is really good that the atmosphere is relaxed at the same time, but it is more than appropriate that we take things seriously, and that we do not deal with them outside of certain contexts and not too superficially. My respected colleague here today spoke about the fact that the result of the graduation is that 70% of our young people do not enter where they would like to enroll in tertiary education. Unfortunately and fortunately, our young people have 80% of those who sign up where they've applied and that's their first wish. The difference is pretty important, and I think everyone will see it. So it's not true that 70% of those who can't sign up are 80% of those who can sign up where they want. Also interesting is the second mistake I make to show how not to play with the school. He claims that only 15% of those who sign in are studying and so graduate. The data that he probably knows are once again to the delight of this country, for example, that in 1995 there were about 5,500 graduates, now about 14,000. These are important movements. I cite these two cases of debate in order to draw attention to the fact that it shows a very precise approach to change. Not to show that we can change schools in our image because we went to school. And that's why don't you let those who have talked about it in this way today, because my son, my daughter, was in school. That's not enough, ladies and gentlemen, to change the school system! This is an experience, I do not deny it, but as a Member I may be able to use it in some argument, as a parent I may think it is the most important thing in the world, and it is very important to me as a minister, and I must never use it. If I use it, if I'm building a system on this, it's just something that's inexcusable. I'm not saying that the current minister is doing this, I'm talking about how he shows us to think about these issues. Systemic approaches are different. And colleague Jerovšek was very well aware of the possible change in the concept. That if we withdraw external verification as an important element of this structure, this education building in Slovenia, then it is necessary to introduce an inspection, he said here directly. Of course, this concept can be implemented, it is legitimate, it is not illegal, but it has certain consequences. Whoever was teaching at school knows what the school system looked like when the inspectors controlled an hour after an hour what was going on in school. And how then all of us who were involved in this system were bent on how they were controlling us and how it didn't make sense. The concept that is now at work is the one that leaves the paths that teachers follow to the goal. However, it checks periodically whether the objectives have been achieved. He doesn't control teachers in the sense that they're the only ones who control them. Of course, it also checks whether they have achieved what is set in the system as a goal. He examines students and, of course, also allows us to ask ourselves as parents whether we have achieved certain goals together. Of course, it can be abandoned. Maybe, and some silent desire in us all people is - so that it would be so - to give up to see how much we have achieved and to feel that we are good. But that's not enough, ladies and gentlemen, because sooner or later someone's putting an account out. If we don't get a glimpse of how much we learned in primary school, we'll be checked out later. If we don't then, they'll check us out at the university, if we don't, then life will check us out. We can't run away from this and it has nothing to do with the left and the right, it has some kind of normal structure of this place. I myself support the SNS amendment for a very simple reason. Look, I'm sure that what my fellow minister says is that we will not use exteriors to enroll in high school so that it can be his wish; maybe he won't be in his mandates either. However, anyone who leads this house, and he is now ahead of this decision - and as far as I can see how this decision takes place, it is not the easiest to reach it - that he will somehow have to make the transition to secondary schools. Will they take into account the experts, as parents think from this most organised initiative that I know, in Ljubljana - they think that it should be done with the experts - or will have to make admission exams. The third option, where we will go on with our internal evaluations alone, will be a huge pressure on teachers, in a very simple way: you decide my fate, why don't you give me an A. This means that the grades will pile up so they won't be real, and nothing in particular needs to be surprised that teachers will give in. Teachers in this country have given in to great pressure on us, others who have been told to demand too much from children. And that's what we have empirically measured -- the grades are higher than I said, than the ones they deserve. So I think it's wise to leave the child then to choose the object he masters and the direction he goes. This is more important than the Minister ordering one of the most expensive research possible on the effectiveness of the school system. This is an exterminator after the third period, who has no other purpose than to figure out how it is in the system. This is not a particularly rational approach to verification. For this there are other, at least equally effective methods. If it doesn't count how much I wrote, then why bother? How, though, will you determine whether it is valid? And it's not a population that's nine years old, it's not a population that's twelve years old, it's a population that's completely defined, somewhere between fourteen and fifteen years old, which, if it doesn't have to do it the way it's supposed to, does it in some important way. These things need to be realized and these things are pointed out by the profession. Because the profession doesn't have to be shared - it's a bit unthinkable, if I may be mild - on the so-called profession of someone and on the profession of another. All those who come from these areas know that it is not that simple. What needs to be afforded is that when you do not know for yourself, when the dilemma is great, you listen to as many experts as possible. Let them fight! For a year in my life, I pushed the reform away because the profession was fighting with each other. Because I didn't think I could cut into it - keep fighting. And I think there's a better solution out there than the one at the end that I would have chosen, because I would have been politically convinced that it was. But the worst of all is that those who fight professionally stand for a solution so that the names of those cannot be seen. Why do these people have to say that they are behind the solution so that we can see whether they have changed their minds in the last two years or perhaps in the last year because they have written about something else before, so that they can take a responsible approach to the solution as far as possible; so that they will take very seriously what they are proposing. I would protect myself in this way to say publicly that they're for it. But I failed - and again I give this initiative - to hear five names with the doctorates of science behind it. To go out of the first application, for example, for this solution that we are now talking about. He didn't see them, and that's bad! It's bad, because something similar is happening to us in another marriage, you can't find a serious expert in the media law who would be behind this solution, but of course there are people who have time and have the law prepared, the body, overnight. It's an extraordinary way of changing. If he's very dangerous to the media, he's just destined for education. That's not what it says to do! Let us therefore support this supplement, giving the minister time to reconsider, consult, and possibly upgrade until the next discussion. If you decide to use your voting machine then, without changing anything, you can still do so; after all, it also belongs to the field of democracy.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u140	Thank you very much. I will read who else has been reported for discussion so that you will have a better orientation. For the moment, we have the following Members and Mrs Štebe, Uhan, Jerovšek and Barovic. I invite Mr. Stabet to the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u141	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues. I will vote against this supplement. My thinking is, if it's a check, there's gonna be a check, because if you're choosing what someone's supposed to check you for, you have a choice, then I don't know how competent the check is. Let the profession and the minister decide on what is additional, which subject will be more competent and more professional as a result of this verification. Let me say a few more words about the law itself, or a change of law. I'm just giving an opinion that I got from people who work at the base, so they're providers of the learning process. They're just wondering why this check is in the first and also in the second triad, somehow accepting verification in the third triad and considering it an introduction or some test for further education, so there's no dilemma here. One of the reasons is that, then, for the verification itself, it is said, before the verification, which should be used to achieve better results not only for students but also for learners, is that, for at least half a year, it is used for the bare preparation of this verification. In my opinion and the Anglo-Saxon system, this is a very, very common or regular practice, but it is a critical debate on this substance that is said to be not a passive submission and then a written examination, but the content, the substance of the study substance, is seriously discussed. Doubting the facts and looking for new facts, and in this way conquering, I would say, the content they were supposed to take over. I, for example, haven't had any primary school checks in my life. The first check I had when I enrolled in high school of construction, I "fettered" on the whole line. I enrolled in a school where there was no check-in, and I did high school, college, and then a master's degree. I believe that here, if we want the verification to be competent, should remain as competent as possible with the choice of an additional competent object. I'll vote against the supplement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u142	I would like to invite Mrs Uhanovo to the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u143	Thank you very much. I would like to give an opinion on the proposed amendment of the National Party. The choice of a student by choice would make sense if it affected success and entry into high school. It is certain that better success has been achieved in selecting the subject at the discretion of the students, but it is not the intention of external examination of knowledge to achieve or show the reality, but rather the actual knowledge acquired by the students in a certain compulsory subject - so I do not support the proposed amendment. In view of the pressures on teachers and administrators, I would warn Members of former teachers, the administrators that it was the representative of the teachers' union on the working body that called for immunity for teachers, because that parents would come to a particular school, I quote: "... they put pressure on the principal first and the principal on the teacher that he should understand for God's sake that he must improve the assessment." It seems unacceptable to me that this is happening after school, it is unfair to those children and parents who do not think of it as those who deserve it, and to those teachers who do not. So let us trust our teachers in their evaluation and not give out so low, for soon it will be evident how much knowledge a particular child has gained and how much a teacher has taught him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Mr Jerovšek also joined the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Today's debate is clear to me that three factions within the LDS do not contribute to synergies, to spiraling only, to increasing nonconsistency and competition in this area does not produce any fruit. See, colleague Gaber mentioned that it is not really what I myself stated that 70% of students enrolled on the basis of the outsiders are not satisfied with their choice brought to them by this external graduation, but it states that 80% are registered on the basis of their first wish. Of course it's true, you just don't know the situation between students in a catastrophic way! In fact, of these 80% is the 70 percent result of the expected result at the graduation and because students are somewhat skeptical, they sign up differently from what they would like. I know the case of my own daughter, who could have signed up based on the result anywhere, but she didn't sign up for it. And then it's yours that they have to decide in the third year what they choose seniors from. I have a graduate son, his classmate, because I know I'd like to sign up for something else, but she said, "Yes, but then I didn't sign up for the third grade and choose the right exams, and now I can't go there." But she'll be enrolled on the basis of her wish, but that's not what I'd really like to study. I see you're not aware of the problems. And there at the University of Maribor, the Deans confirmed how catastrophic damage was done to the National Corps when there was such a situation that students actually studied what they were not then happy about because they did not mature at that time in those years so that they could choose very well. We were on the same page. I had my graduation in my hands, and I was still deciding what to study. And it would be huge today. You see, on such grounds, you've done this your school reform. And even now after 10 years, you're in no condition to understand these truly severe consequences. So I'm not surprised that they're defending your MPs even in such a way that they're saying that removing this "diversion against knowledge" is. If I make an analogy, the gentleman apologized for the last time that the military experts told him that Tiger was a diversion, and on this basis he concluded that it was terrorism. So you don't end up finding that this is terrorism against knowledge - what we're doing now. After this analogy, you'll even get these results. I'm actually saying you're getting serious about this. To do so - you have spent money on these studies and yet you have not done a study of how those students are actually satisfied with what they are studying. You obviously don't know that information. But you've been spending money on everything else, and that's why I think it's about time for some serious thing. You were also talking about the concept that I proposed or I didn't break it down, but you made it clear that you had broken down the previous concept so that you didn't upgrade it. And the consequences are here today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Dr. Gaber's replica. Were you misinterpreted?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u147	Look, I believe that my colleague Jerovšek feels that he thinks about a lot of things, but his debate is typical proof that in Slovenia we need an external verification of what I say.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u148	I'm asking for peace in the hall. We continue the debate. Mr Barovic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u149	Thank you. For the last time, ladies and gentlemen! We're talking today - no, I'm gonna ask a question and I'm sure and I want the ministers to answer. Who and what is the purpose of our conversation: a new law because of political domination or opposition - no, we are not in favour of being opposition, opponents. The target is a student. Where will these people get confidence, a sense of self-reliance, a sense of responsibility, and not least after the third triad the responsibility for their continued existence and further work? We have two options, let us understand. We don't force the amendment into our minds. Whether someone forces him in a third object to search for external knowledge in something where he falls morally to the ground in the most sensitive years, because he is not so powerful because he is not a naturalist, but he is a sociologist - or vice versa. Why don't we just let someone think that it's right for me to devote my whole job and my life to it, I'm going to say it in my mind, physics. But in the exterior, in the test, he'll get, I mean, a history he's not good at. Why can't he decide for himself what's going to happen? Excuse me, all the stories that we've heard - will the principals, for the principals, for the undergraduate teachers now give in to the pressures of their parents, as we have heard? Will they, if this is the case, have to succumb to the pressure of an institution or the pressure of a minister? No offense, Minister! Will they give in and become irresponsible, as we have heard the story? Can't be everyone's. Now I don't know what I'm gonna do. I prefer someone give me something. It's also easier for me to write tests where I have a, b, c, d, than to stand on my own feet and decide for myself. That's the objective of this amendment! This is not political opposition to you, fellows who are proposing this law! No! No! That's smart thinking. At the age of seventeen, people are now responsible for their lives, for their existence, and for their work. They need to find out for themselves. They need to know where to go. That's the way we think he's not taking them anywhere! It can destroy them! He's in it! Let's leave it in one segment, in one third of the whole, and let's just leave the decision and the opportunity to see if they're going in the right direction. Nothing else. Colleagues and colleagues! Don't think of talking, we're against, we're against, we're against thinking a little. [[...]] Everyone can tell their children's stories, anyone. Every single one of them. But they're not taking you anywhere, because our children are still living in better conditions than those who follow them. Mind your own business, respectable fellows! And lastly, please, Mr. Minister, and I am waiting for your answers to the questions raised and the chances that you will explain your vision.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u150	Thank you very much. I also invite Mr Zagorec to the floor, and then I have no more time on my list. So if anyone else wants to discuss it, think it over.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u151	Thank you for your word. Your Honors are here! I also had no intention of discussing this subject. We've heard a lot of reasons for that. And as I said before, I also understand the Members of the ruling coalition that you must look for reasons against the amendment proposed by the Slovenian National Party. But I was encouraged by this debate by the debate of one of the members of the ruling coalition, who said that the examination of knowledge in children should be serious and not optional. I believe that you have read the explanation of the law given by the Minister and, on the proposal of the Minister of the Beast, the national examination of knowledge serves only as your own information to the student about his knowledge. Why, then, do you not allow him to test or test his knowledge in an area where he or she will have the desire to continue his or her education? Why don't you let him do that? Why do you not allow him to choose this third subject for himself, perhaps one day in his life? And something else, let's look for knowledge in school-bound children, not their weaknesses, so that some minister will have the right to choose a third class and look for the weaknesses of a particular student. At least in this one-third, as my colleague Barovic said, let us allow them this freedom to test themselves in areas that they think are good; and if it is volleyball, let it be volleyball. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u152	Thank you very much. My proposal is to give the floor to the Minister, and then, if necessary, we will share the rest of the time between you and the Minister, if you agree. Mr. Minister, the word is yours. [[Five minutes, of course.]] .
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u153	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Thanks for the debate. I see she's a tough minister. In particular, some of the debates were very good, constructive, but some went a little over, but this is usually the case in political debates on professional topics such as this bill. Most of you have focused on the amendment. The fact is that the law now in force is truly weak in all other elements and has to be amended, which is also confirmed by this debate. With regard to the amendment, I would like to stress the following before trying to respond to the other comments. Of course, choice is good, okay, desired, greater freedom and so on. However, in this case, such selection has a number of consequences. We also need to ensure selectivity in other areas and in particular in other areas; it is not necessary that it is precisely in the selection of an external object, a third object. I'll tell you why. We maintain a specific structure - the state examination centre, then the implementation centre or commission for the implementation of the NZP, then there are fourteen Commissions in question. Now, be careful, there is a whole pyramid of people, preparers, performers in each of these committees. And that's a huge nomenclature, a huge system. And in each selection object, we must maintain one such nomenclature and system in life, purely for everyone. And what results do we get at national level when we do this? What does he give us? The pattern is random, no conclusions can be drawn, except that some choose the object they want. We need to make choices for other elements in the school system, but not for this. It's not my wish, I don't have "slide by power" that I determine or that it would be my great desire to define a third object. At first, I even suggested that they propose another professional body, and the professional services in Parliament said to me, "No, it has to be a consistent solution." That's why he's a minister on the basis of a professional body. But there's another problem. If you spoke earlier about the need to learn more from children, if we already determine selectivity in advance, it will be less for all other subjects of learning than for others, which are already compulsory subjects, because learning and the whole learning process adapts to the goal and it is an exterc. And the learning process suffers, the learning will suffer, and if only selectivity, it will suffer in all other subjects. Do you understand what the point is? The process, the teaching will suffer if we give this choice. In addition, we are not just talking about the financial salary and the staff salary and the spatial salary that I was talking about at the beginning. By the way, I just mentioned it. The system - this amendment is not compatible with the bill and if adopted, all reform is in vain. In addition to whether or not the procedure is necessarily shortened. Apparently, of course, it is essential that the law be passed by June so that schools can be placed in schedules. In September, the rules of the game must be known for all institutions. We can't do it on a regular basis. It wasn't in the coalition contract, it was a change in national knowledge tests, what you're saying. For this system, for this reason, on January 19th, nothing was planned "ad hoc" to do or any radical intervention into the system. It wasn't. Only when I was told by the experts at the Ministry did Dr. Gaber believe that there was an expert at the Ministry who explained that the system was not feasible did we begin to prepare the conditions for changing that, only then. So please, the government proposes this law, which is consistent, this amendment is incompatible with the basic bill and if we want the school system well [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] I want him, I want him to have a consistent law. [[...]] I also count on the responsible conduct of the opposition Members. Now, if you'll excuse me for a few more minutes, Mr President.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u154	I think given that this desire has been expressed several times, and given the time remaining, I think it's best to give the minister another five minutes. Okay, then, Mr Anderlich, I know the rules of procedure, I just want to be constructive, given that several members of the left and right have expressed the desire that the Minister speak for a long time. [[...]] Who else would like to discuss sharing the rest of our time? So, if I can read, the current list is as follows, and this time I will avoid all the addresses and beautify myself: Potrata, Sok, Gaber, Gwickl, Tavš, Zagorac and Minister. I therefore note that everyone has three minutes at his disposal, including the Minister, and we begin with Mrs Travel. Mag. Practicing procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u155	Look, I would suggest, according to the findings of the members of the ruling coalition, that you give the minister double time and I give up my time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u156	As far as I'm concerned, of course I don't have a problem with that. Of course, we will not vote because this is not foreseen. I don't think there's anything wrong with Mr. Squeakl quitting and if anyone else doesn't apply, then I think the minister can have more time. Okay. Mrs. Potrata, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u157	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. First of all, I would like to respond to the Minister's comment that we are unfortunately only discussing the amendment. Unfortunately, because we have no other option than to discuss the amendment and if we should explain the rules of procedure in detail, then the vast majority of us have somehow exceeded what we should be talking about. I reiterate, I think that for the third or fourth time, I regret that neither you nor the Minister, nor the Madam Secretary of State, have come to the committee, where it was possible to discuss those things that could now not be discussed because of the restrictions I have been talking about. And now let me express my surprise at the fact that the coalition is taking out external checks or national tests of knowledge as a non-truster of the teacher's work, but this is nothing more than a determination of the level to which the standards of knowledge have been achieved, but there is nothing that disturbs this coalition that calls for the return of those methods of work carried out by the former inspection service within the framework of the education institution, which, fortunately, has now turned into an advisory service, not an inspection service. The second surprise is aimed at landing and magnifying the international TIMSS study carried out by children of the same age as the children of the first triad, testing after the first triad. So, the national test is something that's unacceptable, it's stressful, but what's connected to TIMSS is acceptable. Well, it's a very strange view of things. It's really not possible to react to everything, but allow me to do one thing, Mr. Secretary, but I still need to react. Since I was one and a half President of the Slovenian language committee in question at the graduation, I know that we have made the most professional efforts to set standards of knowledge. And the cost that has been used for this is minimal compared to the benefit that certain standards have, we no longer estimate by what it seems to us that someone should know, whether it seems to us that someone knew, but we do know what standard of knowledge in an object, on a question, we expect some substance. However, protections have been installed in the national testing system, which can then adapt to the knowledge standards of a particular population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Mr Sok is next.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u159	Thank you very much. I think that we have heard a lot today, and I also believe that probably Mr. Gaber would send us all who are not the same opinion as him to some external check, but the Slovenian proverb says, "thank you very much, the price is small." I agree with the Minister that there is a need for a change in the Slovenian system, and I also somehow trust him and his team to do so. It is also true that there is a need to ensure a choice in a wide range of areas. After all, even on the one that is still shrinking for many Slovenes, it is a possibility for children to choose and choose a religion as one of the content. And since Mr Gaber also referred to Webra in the conclusion of his lecture here today, I may also read one sentence written by Weber, he obviously appreciates it. He says, "He who feels no resistance to the commoner and the sick, he is not impatient for everything, but he does not feel the desire and need to raise the young. Besides, he's not looking for the truth." I think there will be a lot of work to be done in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u160	Thank you very much. I would like to take the floor with you, Mr. Ambassador, Dr. Gabra.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u161	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. What colleague Sok was talking about about his own praise was probably an autoreference, so I'm not going to comment on that. As far as Webra's concerned, I was quoting Max Webra, but that's just some personal story. What I wanted to point out in this debate, however, is that it would be consistent, if it really was a time crisis and if it wasn't just an excuse - and I am increasingly convinced that it is just an excuse - then the logical consequence of not changing the whole system in two essential points. So first, the abolition of external verification after the first triad, which is voluntary, and then the amputation of an important part of the logic of verification in the last triad, but it would be a logical decision, a logical consideration to move the start of this verification for a year. The logic here is too strong and it's impossible to cover up the fact that it was good for someone, that the employees in one part of the Ministry machine said, "That's hard to do." How many times do you think we've listened to this story, and how many times will you hear it in the course of your entire term? Maturo, if we went to do it only if we thought those of whom it took a lot of work would do it three years later, at least. But that is why we need to sit with these people and find answers to questions that have not yet been answered. That's why we're where the ministers are. Therefore, I find it incorrect to take responsibility for my own decisions on an objective situation. Tell me, we promised to change external checks, that's what people like if they quit, and that's what we're gonna do. Some say that very directly. That's what the story's about. But it's not always good for people. Sometimes it is necessary to make decisions that are unpopular, but they are beneficial.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u162	Thank you, Mr. Gabra. Mr. Zagorac has the floor. He's not here. Mrs. Žginer Tavš has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u163	Thank you very much. At the end, I'm going to do exactly what we've already said. The fact is that the Minister did not come to his mother's working body and did not report enough time to discuss today's meeting. In fact, I am amazed at his ability or the ability of the Ministry of Analysis and Planning. Finally, it is likely that this move also shows a relationship in the planning or analysis of the law itself. The minister said that an amendment would undermine the whole concept of reform. In fact, it is interesting to know that reform is so much that it can be disrupted by the voluntary choice of the third class, among the compulsory subjects of the students. The amendment is not compatible with the Ministry's idea, it would add new governments. How does the ministry know where students are creative or how the ministry will decide on the creativity of students? Let me say that creativity is being assessed and it is reasonable or reasonable to evaluate it precisely in the context of what the Ministry abolishes, that is, external or external knowledge checks after the first three years, where students are the most creative. Last but not least, it is not reasonable or prudent to squander funds at the expense of knowledge and rights already acquired. And a child really needs to be encouraged to do what is good.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u164	Thank you, Mrs. Squire Tavsh. Mr. Germich has the floor. He's not here. Mr. Germich, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u165	Excuse me, Mr. President. At the beginning of this extra time, I would like to respond to the fact that my warning went by no means, at the beginning of my discussion, that I would not want the Minister to speak. My question and my assessment that the time the Minister wanted to spend at this point, 7 minutes in the introduction and 5 minutes in the answers to the questions, is extremely short given the importance of the content, at least after my assessment of what we are talking about today. And, of course, I would not like to accept any evidence here from the coalition Members that we, as Members of Parliament, do not wish to give the floor to the Minister. And I think that, Mr President, you have other options that you can reach out if the Minister wants you to be able to further explain what he wants. In my extra time, of course, I would also like to define myself to the content of the amendment that is here. Of course, this amendment speaks of conceptually interfering with the changes that are here today, so of course we can agree, and of course conceptually interferes with the whole concept of external verification. I would also like to point out here, given that there have been some reactions to my first discussion. On the statement on what will bring about the abolition of external verification, i.e. the statements made by the president of the education and education union on the Education Committee, the culture said that what he was concerned about in the union, that the evaluation of teachers would now be a significant increase, of course, in the completion of primary school. And our concern, so the union's concern, is that this will increase the pressure on teachers by parents and therefore warns that a mechanism should be designed to protect teachers from pressures. Of course, this is the purpose, because you are afraid, which has been said many times, that, in particular, political and economic elites, parents would be more successful in influencing assessments that will then be important for admission to a real school. Of course, here is the role and importance given by external knowledge verification and the integration of external knowledge verification into the system of advancement or the transition from primary to secondary school. Of course, the statements made by Mr Jerovšek would only confirm that the process or the concept of graduation is very complex and I can understand that perhaps Mr Jerovšek is not so familiar. Of course, if we do know this system, we cannot say that in the third year, we will close the students to any decision from which subjects will be removed from the graduation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u166	Thank you, Mr. Germich. Mr. Moge has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u167	President, thank you so much for your word. More debaters have been given to oppose everything and to want to keep the old system. That's not true, if you've listened to what I said in the introduction, it's not true. We have just said that until changes in the system we need to follow the reasonable path already discussed by a colleague from Nova Slovenije. The path can be one way or another, and we have always warned that the path chosen by the school ministry is one that causes conflict itself and ultimately does not have a crystal clear picture of what will happen when the law enters into force - with regard to other things than those recorded in the law. I have lived through a number of such reforms myself, from the fact that classical high school has been abolished, to Stipet Šuvar and targeted education, and I can say that because of these things that I have experienced in life, you agree that somehow the national consensus is achieved when we save these things. What would it cost you, Mr Minister, if we accepted the offer of a hand at that time and changed the law by means of a quick procedure, which everyone would be to postpone for one year these exams and to have a nice and fair discussion about the law at first reading. But no, as a cylindrical, you've overrun all the amendments we've proposed. You did not go into this so that we could talk patiently about this and that we could also say what we want with the arguments at first reading. Now, Mr Minister, all you have heard today has also been a large part of the abuse of the Rules of Procedure, and it is through their own attributes that the Members have discussed everything else, not the amendment tabled by the colleague of Žgajner. I mean, respected colleagues and colleagues, that if you adopt this law today, we will not resolve this system to make education even more quality, because the system works. Look, now we have the last generation of eight-year-olds on the external knowledge check, right now in these days of work, and as far as I know, the system that was set up at the high school graduation and the system that was set up at the primary school was such that it really took the best possible account of things that students could fit in with their abilities and diligence wherever they wanted. Seeking now the way forward, if the law is passed, in the interested public, of course ascribe to yourself. I think that the profession will not be quiet, and if this law is adopted today, we will have more feedback on this subject than we expect.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u168	Thank you, Mr. Mohet. Mr Minister has the floor to conclude. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u169	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! Thank you very much again for your word. First of all, I would like to apologize for missing me on the education committee at the time, because I was abroad, which was already planned a month and a half earlier, and it was not possible to postpone this visit. But as for today's complication with my time, I'm sure I'll see why this mistake was made and who was behind it. More than once, a question has been asked, to whom does this change of law serve: either to students, or to teachers, or to professions, to politicians, or to whom. That's a very interesting question. This could be very much and widely debated. Sometimes I feel that many changes in the school system have also been made in the past, not primarily for the benefit of children, but for the benefit of certain corporations in one way or another. But if we leave the above-mentioned nomenclature, which is quite a few, aside, we can see that this is at least for some very profitable business, especially for publishers and those who then sell old things along with comments and tasks on the market. And this change has reached into these interests as well. For this reason, I fully understand that there is such a great and strong opposition in the public to these things to change. In fact, there is quite a systemic intervention. However, you can believe that through this change of law we have solved national tests of knowledge, because now the positive system does not allow them, is not feasible. From the beginning, I said that I am for national knowledge tests because they provide a lot of benefits - not just feedback - for the individual, for the teacher, for his work, for the department, for the school, for a region, for the city, for the population as a whole. He gives a lot of information. There is also an objective evaluation of knowledge, a type of comparison given. However, if we accept this perfect, complete, complete consummation, as it is now written, we are unable to do so. We don't have the resources to implement and we can't even present them because we have to do next year because they're evolutionary, in them an entire nine-year-old, except for the sixth grade, one small part. That's why it's a problem. It is not just conceptual with or paradigmatic solutions or differences. When we speak yes, because of the exteriors, if they are accepted in such a form, the whole drill will be devoted only to final success and results on the exteriors. And that's what's happening. This is already happening in the current work, let alone if this system were to enter into force in the autumn. That's what this is about. And once again, I would like to emphasize this amendment. If we accept this amendment, we practically do nothing. The whole law, the change, the novel - I see that the professional services are having a pleasant time, they continue to fall, they become inconsistent. Therefore, I ask you for a responsible consideration of this matter. He also suffers from learning. It is therefore written that the Minister will decide only in the spring on the third subject, that children will learn by then all the subjects equally if we want the quality of learning to be more serious, more quality and comprehensive. TIMSS - I agree. The TIMSS results do not give a comprehensive picture of the value of our children's knowledge. They won't. Finally, they are only from one segment, and last but not least, they are some external forms of fact-checking, some higher forms of perception. And neither are the NPZs. Of course, because they are comparable, they are an external objective criterion and are therefore recommended by the European Union. There is often talk of the profession: the profession is against me, the profession is against me, and even trade unions that have become active in the debate and so on are mentioned. These allegations are quite offensive for the entire ministry, which, at least, my part, has 230 people, and unfortunately there is no expert at the Ministry anymore. I'd like to highlight this. This part cannot be talked about reform and time-limited or diverted to a certain period of time for a year, two or three. The whole world is ahead of school reform and is adapting: Bavaria, America, Israel, European countries. And we will also monitor these trends in school system reforms. It is normal, it cannot be confused or stopped and said: "So, now the reform of a nine-year-old is over and we will do nothing more to improve it. On the contrary! If we do not do so, the school system will be blown away because of some solutions that have been adopted for the last two or three years.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u170	Thank you, Minister. This concludes the debate and interrupts this item on the agenda. We're moving to 8. At the end of the day, that is to say the draft law on the amendment and amendment of the Act on Holidays and Free Days in the Republic of Slovenia. The draft law was tabled by a group of Members with the first-signed Mr Zagorec. With regard to this law, the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice has proposed to the National Assembly that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. On the basis of the third paragraph of Rule 134 of the Rules of Procedure, I give the floor first to the representative of the applicant for further explanation of the bill. Here you go, Mr. Zagorac.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u171	Thank you for your word. Slovenian Primorje with Trieste, Gorica belonged to Italy after the first world war, which was confirmed by the Rapal Treaty. In Italy, about 300,000 Slovenians remain. The Italian State exerted national pressure on the Slovenian minority, which increased by the arrival of fascists to power. Slovenian minorities have been denied certain fundamental rights, even the ban on the use of Slovenian language in public life, the abolition of Slovenian local inscriptions, change of personal names, abolition of Slovenian teaching and so on. The Italian authorities planned to identify Slovenian animals. The Slovenian territory was liberated for a short period of time in May 1945, all the way to the extreme borders of Slovenia. The century-old dream of the merger of all Slovenians was realized for a moment, Trieste and Gorica were liberated, and in the Austrian Koroška they set up a Slovenian honorary watch around the voivodship throne. Fearing the great influence of the Soviet and Yugoslav communist authorities in this part of the Mediterranean, the English decided in May 1945 to stop and suppress the Slovenian and Yugoslav armies from Trieste and its hinterland. The British took the view that border issues with Italy could only be resolved by a peace conference. The disputed territory was divided into zone A and zone B. Zone A took over the areas of Beneška Slovenije, Soska and Vipava Valley and Trieste with Kras and zone B and the territory of Slovenian Primorska and part of Istria. During the year following the war, the coastal Slovenians expressed their motherland’s affiliation with courage and determination. In order to address the problem of delimitation, Slovenians proposed an ethical principle. Veleselj had various proposals for delimitation, announcing a French, so-called compromise proposal, which led to the arrival of Venice, Rezi, Gorica and Channel Valley under Italy. Under Yugoslavia, the rest of Primorska, Istria with Rijeka, all islands and Zadar with surroundings. This distinction was signed in Paris in 1947. By the entry into force of the Paris Agreement on 15 September 1947, Slovenia "de facto" joined Primorska and merged its territory. It is more important for the Slovenian people that after decades of violent dismemberment, suffering and trekking, Slovenian animals come back to life together most of the time. Without the national pride of the Primors, without the perseverance of their resistance back to travel and fascism, it is difficult to imagine today when the Slovenian people are united in a independent Slovenian country. We also propose in the draft law a change to the celebration of the day of independence, from December 26 to December 23rd. The fact is that Slovenian citizens and citizens decided to hold a referendum on 23 December, and on 26 December, Dr Bučar merely announced the results of the referendum. By supplementing the law, we want to mark September 15th, which is very important for Slovenia and symbolizes the actual achievement of the ten-year anti-fascist fight, and at the same time we change the date of independence to December 23rd. The law does not foresee any financial implications for the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, so I invite you to support or reject the decision of the home labour body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u172	Thank you, Mr. Zagorec. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mrs. Darja Lovtišar Bebler has the floor. Here you go. I'm sorry, Mrs. Lavtijar Bebler, I've released a representative of the Committee for Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice. With regard to this law, the Committee proposed to the National Assembly that the proposal for a law should not be considered further. Here you go, Madam Chairman of the Board.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u173	Thank you very much. It seems that after this discussion today, we could really use a holiday right now. Well, now, really. The Committee of the National Assembly for Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice, as a parent working body, considered the proposal for a law supplementing and amending the law on holidays and working days submitted by the SNS parliamentary group to the National Assembly after a reduced procedure. In the course of the course of business, the Committee also received amendments tabled by Members Davorin Terčon and Geza Juban and co-proposer Dr Mitja Slavinec. At its first regular meeting, on 12.1., the representative of the proposer set out the reasons for the submission of the proposed law. In view of the Government's view, which was expressed at the time that it did not support the proposed law, the representative of the applicant agreed with that part of the Government's opinion that the introduction of new holidays should not be introduced as a day off. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service pointed out only a few minor legal comments. In a controversial debate, the views and views of the members of the Committee on the proposed law and amendments were quite different and shared, part of the debaters agreed with the Government's opinion and accordingly took the view that the proposed law should not be adopted but should be thoroughly examined and a new comprehensive law prepared. In principle, the second part of the debaters did not object to the proposed law. However, as has already been found in the previous mandate when considering the amendment of the current law on holidays and working days, it is true that neither at that time nor at the first meeting did it come between the interested parties to the necessary common agreement on the appropriateness of the dates to mark the proposed holidays. The following was the view that the bill should not be rejected for once, but that it would be useful to interrupt and obtain the views of the historical profession. In view of the above, the Committee, on a proposal from the members of the Committee from the LDS Member Club, has adopted a decision to consider the proposal for a law pending further termination and the Committee should also invite external experts of the historical profession whose work is directly linked to the examination of this law. Thus, we resumed our discussion at the 6th regular meeting on 4.5. In accordance with the Committee's decision, the Committee was briefed by the experts requested, namely the Regional Museum of Murska Sobota, the Institute for Recent History and the Historical Institute of Milka Kosa ZRC - SAZU. As part of the new deadline, the Committee also received an amendment tabled by a group of Members with a first-signed Sam Bevko and two other proposals for an amendment submitted by a member of the Committee, Member of the Committee, Dr Marko Pavliha. The representative of the government reiterated that the issue must be adopted by consensus and the majority's will, so the government will also, with its professional services and relevant institutions, on the basis of a public opinion poll that is supposed to be under way, find out what the will of the people is and, on this basis, prepare a comprehensive law and submit it to the National Assembly for the legislative procedure. Following the discussion on whether the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, a discussion from the Committee's 1st meeting was largely repeated. Thus, on the one hand, it was said that the government could already examine all proposals and initiatives and draw up a comprehensive law. However, the second part of the debaters, the main part of the debaters, estimated that particular attention should be paid to these changes and to all proposed initiatives, and that the new concept of the law might also be considered. In doing so, it should first be appropriate to define the individual categories of those days and only on this basis to approach certain amendments and amendments to the law. Given the fact that discussions on the issue have been ongoing for a number of years, followed by a number of proposals, it is appropriate, therefore, to at least for the time being, approach to a consistent law that will be acceptable to all or the largest possible majority. In the light of the debate and the opinion of the Government, the Committee adopted, on the basis of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, that the proposal for a law supplementing and amending the law on holidays and holidays is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u174	Thank you, Mrs. Kuclareva, president of the board. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mrs Darja Lovtijar Bebler will present the position of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u175	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A respected choir! In the LDS, we believe that the holiday celebration of historical events, which occupy an important place in the history of the people, must not become a matter of political prestige and competition between political parties. With the introduction of the draft law, members of the LDS Club proposed to implement two new national holidays, namely the 5th of October – the date of the London Memorandum, as a day of remembrance of the role of coastal Slovenians during fascist violence and victims I. and II. World wars in Primorske, and 17 August as the day of Prekmurje's accession to Slovenia. However, some of our members also proposed to the National Assembly to consider the introduction on 17 August - as a holiday for young people, which would show at a symbolic level that our society is aware of the importance of the development of the young generation, which represents a guarantee for social, economic and cultural development. Judging from the reactions of some political parties and from the fact that the government has also decided to honour the accession of Primorska, Prekmurje and Styria to Slovenia by means of state celebrations, our proposals have apparently been justified in addition to Mr Jelinčič's proposal. In the LDS, we believe that these events deserve not only the celebrations of national celebrations, but the implementation of the national holidays of one or three, namely the unity and integration of Primorska and Prekmur and Styria, which would, at a symbolic level, surround the efforts of the Slovenians to live in a single country. At the LDS, we wanted the choice of the most appropriate date to be reached by an agreement that would take all the proposals on which there is therefore a consensus and that on this basis it would be possible to decide on the appropriate dates. This was not possible because the government had not yet presented its proposal and the ruling coalition had not. It seems that further consideration of these topics will only be possible once the government has presented its proposal. As the question of setting holidays is not a matter of prestige and political competition, it does not seem to us that it is important who is proposing the amendment of the law, on the basis of which the new holidays will be determined, whether by government or by Members, that is why the LDS Club will not vote against the bill that we are considering. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u176	Thank you, Mrs. Lavtiger Bebler. Mr Bevk alone will present the position of the Group of Members of the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u177	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! Members of the Social Democrats, we have tabled a novelty of the holiday law in the parliamentary procedure. Our proposal is that, instead of December 26, the day of independence, when the results of plebiscite were announced in the then assembly, be determined on December 23, when the plebiscite on independence and independence was actually carried out, for a day of independence and unity. We are building on the existing holiday with the outstanding unity of Slovenia and Slovenes and all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. As we are now looking at the law tabled by the National Party's parliamentary group, we have tabled an amendment to the Social Democrats, which contains a substantive summary of our law. The majority of proposals for amending this law relate to marking the accession of Primorska to Slovenia and the suffering of Slovenians under Italian fascism. We support the 15th of September, this is the day of the entry into force of the Paris Peace Treaty. This proposal has already been signed by some Members of the Social Democrats in 1997. In explaining our law or amendment, the Social Democrats have also tried to consume all other proposals that have emerged so far, including the great action of General Rudolf Maister in Styria and the accession of Prekmur to his homeland. After all, we also wanted to introduce into the marriage what the government has been saying for some time that it will do to propose a new holiday, a day of unity to be celebrated in May, every time in another Slovenian city or province. We therefore propose a new holiday: a day of independence and unity. Throughout the entire history process of the 20th century, from the activities of General Maistra at the end of World War I in Styria to the accession of Prekmur and from the fight against fascism between the two wars to convincing military victory and national liberation in II. The World War, which has made a decisive contribution to the accession of Primorska to her homeland, follows the idea of a united Slovenia. Through national liberation, we fought our statehood within the framework of the then federal Yugoslavia. The accession of Primorska was definitively confirmed in 1975 by the island agreements. With the independence of 1991, we have made efforts to achieve state autonomy and sovereignty and the international recognition of Slovenia. The self-sustainment process took place in the final phase from the Mayan declaration, the constitutional amendments in 1989, the first multilateral elections, through the plebiscite conducted on 23 December 1990, and the independent war until the adoption of the Republic of Slovenia in the UN in 1992. This has included a long-standing effort to realize the identity of the Slovenian people in various state works. Since 1990, the Slovenian policy has gradually formed a consensus on Slovenian sovereignty and how to achieve it. The then government coalition and opposition have united on the plebiscite issue as never before in their national history. Therefore, the plebiscite decision on this issue in the general public vote of 23 December 1990 can be considered not only as a day of independence, but also as a day of unity between Slovenes and Slovenians and all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. It can therefore be referred to as a day on which all the various previous efforts and activities to build Slovenian statehood and to overcome the ideological differences and the contradictions expressed in this regard have been taken into account at the same time. For Slovenia alone, 95% of all those who participated in elections that December 15 years ago voted. All these facts confirm our belief that all these events together contributed to the decision on 23 December on plebiscite, which our ancestors sought: the independent and independent Republic of Slovenia, the country of all its citizens and citizens. With the proposed amendment, we want to ensure that, at all the events mentioned and not mentioned, which have had a significant impact on the existence of the Slovenian people, we are reminded of the plebiscite decision, thus linking the day of independence with the day of unity. I assume that, today, neither the law nor our amendment will be adopted, and in view of the Government's intention to prepare its own law, and if it makes sense to summarise our proposal for a day of independence and unity, we Social Democrats are prepared to withdraw our law from the parliamentary procedure and support the government's solution, especially as the Prime Minister announced in his speech on 9 May. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u178	Thank you, Mr. Bevk. Mr Franz Capuder will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u179	Thank you, Mr. President. Usually, we remember our childhood only by beautiful things, especially after holidays and celebrations. Family celebrations are an opportunity where in a relaxed conversation we strengthen ties, make plans for the future, and remember the past. Holidays in our country are also supposed to follow this basic principle. Therefore, I think it is extremely important that State holidays are only those days that connect citizens and citizens and do not separate them in any way. Holidays should strengthen the national identity or identity of Slovenians. Therefore, holidays should not be an area where cheap political points can be accumulated. In the New Slovenia Group, we agree that the proposed amendments to the law on holidays and holidays are rejected. At the same time, we are thinking about a new concept of law that will fully regulate the holiday area, the work of leisure days, and the Memorial days. It should adequately identify individual categories these days and only on this basis would it be necessary to accede to certain amendments or additions to legislation in this field. In Nova Slovenije we also believe that every holiday should not be a day off. Work on days off should be re-examined and coordinated with holidays in the European Union. As for the Memorial days, among them, of course, the proposals discussed on the parental committee, we believe in New Slovenia that many proposals are good and justified. When we make a legal decision about a new concept and determine the basic categories and levels of celebrations in Slovenia, in Novi Slovenija we are confident that all these proposals can be taken seriously and accepted. Therefore, in New Slovenia, we welcome the government's information that a new law is being drawn up, in which, as a coalition partner, we will advocate that the arrangement or the approach to regulating holidays be as systematic, logical and coherent as possible for citizens and citizens. In Novi Slovenija we support the position of the parent committee and the law on supplementing and amending the law on holidays and working days in the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u180	Thank you, Mr. Capudre. Mr Franz Kangler will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u181	Thank you for your word. Dear Members and Members! In the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group, we will support the proposal of the mother's working body, although we also believe that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on holidays and work of days in the Republic of Slovenia, which was tabled by the first-signed colleague Zmago Jelinčič Plemeniti, after a reduced procedure, is suitable for further consideration. However, given the government's assurance that it has given to the internal policy committee itself that the government has prepared a comprehensive intervention in legislative matter, it is in the Slovenian People's Party's Group that we do not support or support this law's proposal for a decision of the home labour body. Over the past year, there have been quite a few controversy and suggestions regarding new holidays and landmarks of historical events. It is certainly September 15th, the return of the Primorska home country, a very important date and also a good proposal for a memorial and a state holiday, and I would like to point out that in the Slovenian People's Party we advocate that one of the very important proposals is also the 23rd November proposal, Rudolph Maistra Day, a memory of the establishment of the northeastern border. Let me mention that this day Rudolf Maister took over military power in Maribor and the surrounding area. This opened the possibility to secure the northern Slovenian national border, to acquire the part of Koroška and to join Prekmurje. The fact is that on 1 November 1918, under the authority of the Slovenian National Council for Styria, he took over military power in Maribor and the surrounding area and was appointed after him also as General and with his army disarmed the German armed city guard. General Rudolf Maister was also thinking about the Prekmur military force. Due to the need to strengthen the border line against Stajerska and to help Slovenian troops in Koroška and the government's failure to take part in Ljubljana to Maistro's military action in Prekmurje did not come. For us in the Slovenian People's Party it is important that the government takes into account both 15 September and 23 November. We will therefore also support the proposal for a decision, which we also supported on the working body of the mother and we expect to adopt a government proposal as soon as possible in the national assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u182	Thank you, Mr. Kangler. Mr Boštjan Zagorac will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u183	Thank you for your word. Your Honors are here! In the Slovenian National Party, we support and oppose the decision of the parent labour body, as it is our belief that it is a quality law. In the Slovenian National Party, we wanted to introduce the bill as a holiday and it does not work on a day off, as we later said several times, two new dates that represent good milestones in Slovenian history. On September 15th, when the Slovenians of the sea are in years after the war persistently and courageously, I will repeat what I think is so important that it is worth hearing twice, the Slovenians of the sea have expressed their country of origin in years after the war with perseverance and courage. In order to address the problem of delimitation, Slovenians proposed an ethical principle, had different proposals for delimitation, announced a so-called French compromise proposal, which led to the arrival of Venice, Rezi, Gorica, Canal Valley and the rest of Primorska, Istria and Rijeka, all islands and Zadar with surroundings. By the entry into force of the Paris Agreement on 15 September 1947, Slovenia de facto joined Primorska and merged its territory. It is more important for the Slovenian people that after 30 years of violent disintegration, suffering and travel, Slovenian life together is brought back to life. That is why we propose September 15th. We also propose a new date in the bill, which is 23 December as the day of the Republic of Slovenia's independence. The fact is that Slovenians and Slovenians actually took over on this day, and then we expressed our will, and on 26 December, the results were only announced. It also makes sense to celebrate this important date independently of Christmas celebrations or to celebrate before it, since Christmas celebrations are attended by fewer people, especially at international or diplomatic receptions on the day of independence. Just because of Christmas holidays, most of the diplomats at the celebrations are not even present. In its opinion, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia wrote down many, kindly speaking, nonsense. I'm going to quote why the government doesn't support this law. "The arrangement in the Republic of Slovenia is still comparable with the arrangements in the European countries with certain 15 holidays and working days off by number, although at the upper limit. From the point of view of labour law, the government considers that the setting of an additional holiday means an additional drop in working hours or an increase in obligations for employers." Initially, I said that we did not propose working off days; we also explicitly stressed that, so I find this kind of explanation ridiculous. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia further assesses in its opinion that it is appropriate to collect and examine all initiatives for the introduction of new holidays, which relate to the statehood of the Republic of Slovenia, if necessary. But one paragraph earlier says we're at the top of the line, that there will be no more new holidays. As I mentioned earlier, there are unjustified reasons why we should oppose such a law or why we should not accept it. Equally unfounded was the government's representative on the labour force, and not to be wrong, I will quote his statement again, which is why it is a shame to guess whether this date is right or wrong and proposes that the law be prepared in a process as usual in this country, you can remember that it is normal for a government to determine with its services, with its authorities and its institutions what the will of people is and do it with public research. I'm sorry, I've been a Member for six months, and I've also been an expert member of the National Assembly for some time now, but for the first time, I've heard that it's usually before the proposal. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] some law that the government does this with public research. [[...]] I can't imagine either, because such public research costs certain financial resources, and I don't know where the government will draw them. I think that the proposal by the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group is good and that the only reason why the government opposes it is because we proposed it in the Slovenian National Party. If the government really wanted to find out any public opinion, it had plenty of time to do so, since we introduced the law into the parliamentary procedure 2.7 in 1997 and then again in 2.12.2004. That's why it's been enough time. And once again, if the government had a serious intention to change such a law and not just adopt it, it could have done public research and whatever the normal procedure for the new government had done earlier. In the Slovenian National Party, we will oppose the decision proposed by the mother labour body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u184	Thank you, Mr. Zagorec. Mr Willi Rezman will present the position of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u185	Mr. President! In our parliamentary group, that is to say, in the DeSUS Group, we estimate that holidays would be the right time to celebrate, so that people would be satisfied, happy, happy to hang out, to devote themselves to a memory, to someone's time, and so on, which is just such enphatic notions, can be used; or, as sometimes happens, it is even frantic. Unfortunately, it's not always like that. The holidays have been so far, and it seems that the proposals for new holidays will also cause some disunity, including some opposition, some increased tone, or some denial of the fact that has already been recorded. I'll tell you what I'm thinking later. The same is true for the various features, for the various symbols we are proposing, similar in that we are not always and completely uniform. It is our view, however, that although the reduced procedure proposed foresees non-problemability, it is not so unproblemsome to accept these proposals. This has also been demonstrated through debates, both in the past, a little more distant than in the immediate past just a few days or weeks ago. There are different reasons for this, it doesn't make sense to list all of them, whether they're economic or ideological or other, but it's probably not the most important thing right now. Since the committee was also not quite sure how to act in order to be right, after receiving the entire reptiles of various amendments, and so when the various holidays and the work of the day were multiplied, he turned to the profession for help. The profession has kindly helped, but there have been a number of new dates that, according to the profession, would indicate a celebration or be suitable to celebrate. In DeSUS, we do not reject some proposed dates or celebrations, not one called September 15th, not December 23rd, but some other. However, we feel that perhaps it is the right time to calm this debate down a little bit, to unify ourselves and then to come to conclusions quite uniformly so that we do not get any, under the terms of "festive conflicts" here in this Parliamentary Chamber, which would not be too appropriate for holidays. What we are proposing is a calm, moderate, consensual solution, a solution that will lead us to such a holiday on which we can reach our hands and not the holidays where we will count, which cities are all empty, who did not attend or who was there, and this will mean something very important to some. Such a way of celebrating is not the most appropriate way for us or for all of us. It should be noted, however, that the proposal proposed first before the amendment was proposed in such a way as to provide for a day off. And that's what I'm talking about because it's written down, at least in the papers that I have available to read, and because I've been told before me that it's not true. Only later, when all the proposed amendments were summarized in one document, did it then appear that the sixth and seventh indents, I think, meant celebration days that would not have been free days. The DeSUS Group proposes that we take the "time out" to wait for a new proposal, which we hope will unify everything, and then adopt these changes in the law on holidays and holidays.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u186	Thank you, Mr. Rezman. Ms Maria Possonec will present the position of the delegation of the national communities.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u187	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Your Honor! Surely the first condition for a pleasant holiday is that it is accepted by consent to bring people together, the inhabitants of Slovenia, not to exclude anyone and not to bring pain to anyone. It is important to take into account the fact that we are now in the European Union and that a lot has changed with the deletion of borders. Among other things, because we now live in the same country, so that many wounds from the past can heal slowly. I must admit that I am close to thinking about the holidays in the way that Mr Bevk presented it on behalf of the Social Democrats. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that in no way should Slovenian soldiers from Rezija, Channel Valley, Koroška, Use, who were not fortunate enough to be joined by queens. Some of the proposed celebration dates are the days when they were torn from their homeland. Taking into account their feelings, I will support the proposed decision of the Internal Policy Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u188	Thank you, Mrs. Poxon. Mr Srečko Hvauc will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u189	Thank you, Mr. President. A respected choir! The proposal, which we are considering, was proposed by a group of Members, proposing that the date of accession of Primorska to Slovenia or the return of Primorska to Slovenia as a holiday in Slovenia should be further defined on 15 September as the date of accession of Primorska to Slovenia or the return of Primorska to Slovenia and that the date of independence from 26 December to 23 December should be changed. The current Act on holidays and holidays in the Republic of Slovenia entered into force on 22.11.1991. Since then, especially in recent years, we have witnessed a host of proposals and also debates over proposals concerning new holidays and observances of the Memorial days. After the initial proposal, this day was indeed foreseen as part of a day off, and it is necessary to stress once again that it is true that what the government has stated is that, as far as work is concerned, we are actually still inside, within European countries, that we are actually at the border. We have fifteen such days, in European countries there are ten to fifteen these days. However, if we are already comparing ourselves with European countries, then we will find that most of the holidays of religious nature are there. In addition to the new year and the holiday of work, they celebrate mainly and generally the days linked to the statehood of each country. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we believe that all initiatives relating to the statehood of the Republic of Slovenia need to be examined on days to highlight or mark such days. Of course, we can’t just have some of these days in mind here. It is true that it is an important day for Primorsko, which has been proposed, but it is true that for each area of Slovenia we also have some historic decisive days that have had a significant impact on the history of these parts and Slovenia as a whole. I've already mentioned Prekmurje in my mind, and I also have General Maister's action in mind, and I think we might find something else. In addition, given the number of holidays already in existence, it would be wise to consider that some holidays would not be part of the day off. The point is that we do not lose hours to keep the Slovenian economy competitive. There have been various amendments, different, new, additional proposals, and even the historical profession, during the Committee's consideration alone, were not entirely uniform as to what was most important in order to mark and celebrate. Our view is that it is necessary to study these things in peace, examine them, and consider them with a sober mind and, if possible, with a very large majority, decide what we will celebrate in the future. Of course, what people think about this is irrelevant. If people don't accept it for themselves these days, if they don't really feel like they mean something to the Slovenes, to the Slovenes, then it won't be a real holiday. It is because of all this that we believe that the proposal by the proposer was a good attempt to actually mark one holiday or one historic day for Primorsko and Slovenia, but that this area should be made more comprehensive, so we do not support this proposal in the Slovenian Democratic Party and expect the government to come up with a broader and comprehensive proposal that will actually regulate this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u190	Thank you, Mr. Hwauc. We have therefore concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The proposal for a decision will be decided in accordance with the time frame of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 10th item of the agenda, or at the latest at 18.16 a.m. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 10. POINT OF THE DAY - OTHER DEFINITIONS OF THE PROPOSAL OF THE SUPPORT LAW OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA FOR THE CREDITS OF THE NATIONAL AND UNIVERSAL BOOKS RECEIVED FOR THE FINANCING OF THE BUILDING OF THE UNIVERSAL LibRICULTARY IN LOVE. The draft law was tabled by a group of Members with the first-signed Mirano Ptræ. With regard to this law, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy proposes to the National Assembly that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. On the basis of the third paragraph of Rule 134 of the Rules of Procedure, I give the floor first to the representative of the drafters for further explanation of the bill. Here you go, Mr. Potch.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u191	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Members and Members of the Government, although to a very limited extent. Please and I suggest that you reconsider the proposal of the Finance Committee so that the proposed law is not adopted. I am convinced that the existing substantive reasons why the National Assembly will finally find a form and a path by which, in principle, the definition adopted for the construction of the National and University Library will also materialise. I therefore suggest that you do not support the proposal of your mother's working body and thus allow further discussion and adoption of the proposed loan guarantee law of the Republic of Slovenia for the loans hired for the construction of the National and University Library in Ljubljana. While the need to build a national and university library in the professional and political public has been recognised for decades, when all society has been speaking and emphasizing the importance of knowledge, respect and preservation of our rich tradition for future equitable and successful development in Europe and the world, when we have already tried several models to implement, in principle, one of the most important investments in culture, and at the same time, at all times and for each of them, we have found that it is not true at a given time, and that it is necessary to look for another, when all projects have already been expertly tested several times, knowing that it is always difficult to provide all the funds in the budget and that the national and university libraries, the central technical libraries and the study libraries of the Faculty of Philosophy do not allow delay and there is no possibility to provide all the necessary funds in the budget, and the government guarantees will be needed at any time, and at the same time as the vote of the construction of the university's national or university's right to decide upon them. Therefore, as one of the proponents who believed that the decision to build the National and University Library had matured to this extent, that the formal reasons, the artificial creation of obstacles and prevention would not prevail over the willingness of all to find a common solution, there seems to be only hope that the recommendation of the home working body to the government in 2005 would not remain empty promises. And that this recommendation, although it has no formal significance, is understood as the actual obligation of the Government and the National Assembly to ensure that all real, financial and legal conditions are ensured in 2006 that the construction of the National and University Library actually begins in 2006 and is completed within a reasonable time. Dear colleagues and colleagues! As one of the bill-makers, I have done everything I can to give the government sufficient time to make a judgmental decision. I have always stressed that there should be no prestige in deciding on the proposed law. On the contrary, it is a project and an investment that is truly of national importance and should be able to find a national and also a party consensus through the division between the coalition and the opposition. I am sorry that there is some bitter taste in the fact that this project has also been dealt with primarily in government terms and options and that the ministries of culture and higher education, science and technology remain underlying in order to enforce the substantive importance of the decision. Let's stay optimistic. If, on second thought, you give priority to the national economic and cultural significance of this decision, I expect that you will not support the proposal of your mother's working body. In this case, I pledge that we will try to find common solutions with the government and the legislature. If you reject the law, I only have the hope that we will be discussing this investment in the autumn of the 2006 budget. If we accidentally forget about this in government and coalition, we will not forget the proposing of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u192	Thank you, Mr. Run. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Ms Majda Potter will present the position of the Socialist Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u193	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! But I don't know which of the government's representatives to send my regards to. Among the signatories to the proposed law on the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for the credits of the National and University Library, hired to finance the construction of the University Library in Ljubljana, we are also Members of the Social Democrats. Therefore, I should like to point out in the first place that we will object to the decision taken by the parent working body that the law is not suitable for further consideration. At the same time, I invite you to support the proposed law. Postponing the construction of a new national and university library is unacceptable in several respects. Under the basic law, construction was considered a priority investment. Spatial hardships and, therefore, the impossibility of optimally carrying out the statutory tasks are being stepped up. It is also not possible to overlook the problems of the central technical library and the study library of the Faculty of Philosophy and the high costs for rented additional premises. Since the investment programme for the operation of the library complex was set up so that it could fully meet the needs of modern information society because it was set up as an investment that you do not plan for every few years, but also has a large symbolic role because it has national status, some felt that it is not rational enough. The expert opinion of the Investment Assessment Commission and the international verification by UNESCO experts were carried out, so that the project was also streamlined. The proposed guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia will allow for the start of construction in the second half of the first decade of the 21st century, as also provided for in the resolution on the national programme for culture. It is true that investment must be treated with a sense of measure. That is why it is also an important decision to set priorities. That is why the question here is: Is the National and University Library really still our common priority? It will not be possible to avoid the fact that an option has been offered that could even be chosen if it was supported by other applicants. However, we hope that it will weigh the realization that the construction of the National and University Library is such a provision that it is not only possible to achieve within one ministry, not two, but within the government, but remains open here, whether this is feasible within one mandate. Therefore, in the Group of Social Democrats, we expect you, honourable Members and Members, to support the bill and thus bring the time for users of library services to sit down and study in new premises. Although I will still consider it a great privilege to study in the Belečnik beauty, I will regret endlessly if we also undo this attempt to change the principle of building support in order to provide the resources necessary for the start of construction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u194	Thank you, Mrs. Potter. Here you go, Mr. Potsch.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u195	I would only be one of the proponents protesting the Government's ignorance that, while the three ministries are somehow involved in the consideration of this law, there is no chance of sending at least one of the state secretaries. I'd like to ask you to ensure the presence of the government at this point in the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u196	We'll warn you. But it is also true that, even if they were present, they do not have a word. So their presence can only be visual. However, we will certainly warn that they should be present at such points, even though they do not have a word. Mr Cyril Testen will speak or present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u197	Honourable President of Parliament, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The New Slovenia Group agrees with the opinion of all those who believe that the construction of NUK is urgently necessary and that NUK 1 must be a priority of the current government. We also agree with the position of the Finance Committee that it is necessary to provide all the grounds for the construction of the library to be included in the 2006-2010 development programmes. We are also convinced that in view of the debate so far and also in view of the fact that the construction was based on a legal basis from a long time ago in 1994, but unfortunately not much has been done so far, other parliamentary parties are also receiving support. However, we cannot agree with the way in which construction is built and, in particular, the way in which construction is financed, as proposed by the group of Members with the first-signed Mirano Potrce. The reason we don't agree is now. I'll just count some of the most important. The government must plan multiannual investments in accordance with the Public Finance Act in the development programme plan. Such a proposal is also contrary to the system-wide regulation of public or public spending financing as defined in the Public Finance Act. All consumption, both direct and indirect, must be planned in the state budget. In the opinion of the New Slovenia Group, it is not acceptable that the facility of great national importance is financed indirectly through a public institution. In our view, NUK must be financed directly from the State budget. In our view, it is also unnecessary because not all the conditions for the start of the construction have yet been met. In our view, maximum efforts must be made to obtain the remaining land. This task is under contract the task of the municipality of Ljubljana. In their proposal for a guarantee law, the applicants refer to the 1994 NUK Act, which, in our view, is a bad starting point and is also inconsistent with the legal service of the National Assembly. In our view, Slovenia must control its debt in the planned framework and monitor all forms of debt as closely as possible after joining the EU and in particular in order to ensure the conditions for taking over the euro. That is also why the signature of the guarantee is unacceptable in our view. In Nova Slovenija, we believe that the task of the construction committee set up by the government is to prepare a thorough analysis of the work already done, as well as the financial resources used. The task of the Preparatory Committee is also to prepare accurate calculations of the cost of NUK until construction, to prepare a proposal for construction and the necessary funding at stages for each individual year of construction, as well as an assessment of the maintenance costs after construction. In Novi Slovenija we believe that maximum efforts should be made to start construction of NUK in 2006. We support phase construction to the extent that it covers needs [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] for a further 20 years. [[...]] In any case, the construction must be so fixed that a later extension is possible. The National and University Library Loan Guarantee Act hired to build the University Library in Ljubljana, Members of New Slovenia will not be supported because it is contrary to system regulation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u198	Thank you, Mr. Testen. Mr Josip Bajc will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u199	Mr. President, colleagues, colleagues. Proposals for a law on the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for the construction of a national university library! Members of the Slovenian People's Party will support the proposal for a decision of the mother's labour force, and we note that we had a basic law on the priority construction of a new university library in Ljubljana and we have practically consumed it, since it was valid for the period 1994-1998, without any material event happening, as well as ministers, who led at least one of the key sources to implement the matter, came from the same party as most of the proponents of the law under consideration. During this time, approximately - at least from the data we have available - 4 billion, Members of the Slovenian People's Party are convinced that we are rational. Another time. We note that at the moment we have a resolution on the national programme for culture, which foresees the realization of the construction of NUK in Ljubljana, in the period 2005-2007. In order to begin the implementation of the national programme for culture, which provides, as mentioned above, for the construction of the National and University Library in Ljubljana, at least in the year ahead, we also support the second decision adopted by the mother labour body, and we expect all those involved to carry out their tasks. At this point, as we were aware of on the working body, even the basic conditions are not yet assured, because neither the land is provided, as the building should be needed - I think we all agree here - the library. We also expect the government - sorry, I think the Ljubljana municipality - to support the start of the implementation of the aforementioned resolution in the preparation of the 2006 and 2007 draft budget, with the votes of the Slovenian People's Party's Group contributing to this being adopted in the budget, as it was said, for 2006 and 2007.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u200	Thank you, Mr. Baitz. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u201	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We decide on a decision saying that the proposal for a law on the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia is not suitable for further consideration. If a person accepts the proposal objectively and correctly, he shall first look at the assessment of the situation and the reasons for reception, which clearly show that the NUK must be in charge of providing funds. And then one looks at the government's opinion that the state guarantee would have an impact on the budget, on public debt, that no land had been acquired, that there had been no relaxation procedures, that neither construction and location documentation had been obtained, that the amount was too high, that the government of the university library was in principle supporting. Well, in our home, my family generally supports the purchase of Porsches and Ferraris along with another child, if you understand or not. Then you take the opinion of a law enforcement service that talks about non-compliance with the 1994 law. And not least, we see a national programme that says we're going to have an NUK. And then you wonder who's making fun of who. And then, of course, you take the discussions seriously on the parental committee, the finance committee, where we were all united, that we needed NUK. We were united that the 1994 law was not appropriate. We were united, however, that the proposal that this decision should not be adopted and that the proposal would not be adopted or that the decision would be adopted, but that the bill would not be adopted; that it was not in line with the resolution on the national programme; that this investment was envisaged between 2005 and 2007 and that the government would require a revision of a project that we know will only last for as long as it lasts. And then it is necessary to determine the rationality of the object, the assessment, the economic and the substantive reasoning, and I don't know what else. And we're back to where we started. Yes, we are all united, the NUK must be, the NUK will be, and when I personally asked when or what guarantees the government will give, and what measures should be taken by the government, that NUK will, while honestly and openly criticising the previous government, because it also spoke about NUK if we have heard of it since 1994, and if it holds, it says that there was no building permit, etc. Nothing. And what assurance do we have from the new government? None. We have the assurance - this was Mr Testen's response - that it will be studied that it is a substantive design, yes and yes and yes [[...]] My personal opinion, which I have forwarded to my colleagues and colleagues after all these discussions and the examination of the documents, is: commitments for the future that have no basis, which are hypothetical, I speak personally, there is no point in considering and expecting them. NUK is not just NUK, the NUK is a delegation of Slovenia, the NUK is a cradle of science of future scientists, intellectuals, students and all of us. We want NUK. And since it has provided this moment objectively, objectively, except for the proposal of the guarantee law we are talking about, I will personally, as a member of the Slovenian National Party to the decision, object to the decision. Colleagues of the Slovenian National Party will decide on their own conscience. NUK must be and it will be.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u202	Thank you, Mr. Barovich. Mr Franc Žnidaršič will present the position of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Retired Persons. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u203	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The National and University Library is the largest cultural project in the decade, if I may say so. Therefore, of course, it has the support of our client, while construction has been announced for so long that it is time to move slowly. In this context, we will support the Committee's decision, which is essentially a modified implementation of our proposal in the sense that the proposal for a law is not supported, but that the Government should prepare an investment programme, a plan and a law at the same time, which will guarantee funding even during this mandate period and not at the time of expiry, because then there will be not much done, but this autumn's projects and the drafting of the law, the second year's start of construction, if all the other tasks that we have heard are not yet done. And in this context, we will also vote, in line with the statement in the coalition treaty, in the sense that the coalition has the intention and I think it will not remain only for this, but also for the task, obligation and duty to carry it out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u204	Thank you, Mr. Znidarsich. Mrs Polonca Dobrajc will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u205	Honourable Presidents, Honourable Fellow Members, fellow Members. It is difficult to say first to the applicants about the reasons for the construction of the National and University Library, but the second attempt to achieve a visible step in the context of the consensus of all political parties in the construction of the National and University Library as an institution and building of national importance is a mistake. No one in this assembly and no representative of political parties opposes the construction and the reasons for the need for the National and University Library. However, it is important to take into account the view that the proposal for a law on the guarantee of Slovenia for credits from the National and University Library is contrary to the system-wide regulation, both by the law on public finances. It should be borne in mind that this is a basic law, a law which has foreseen the construction of the NUK and to which the proposal for a law that we are discussing today also refers is a systemicly inappropriate basis. However, during the period when the NUK tried to build itself in its first attempt, there were also complications with regard to the performance itself and thus there was an unresolved ownership, a construction site where NUK would start. The SDS therefore supports the decision of the parent labour body, but it will certainly support the second decision, which somehow binds and calls on the government to ensure, as soon as possible, that it joins the construction of the National University Library as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u206	Thank you, Mrs. Dobrajchev. Ms Majda Širca will present the position of the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u207	The President-in-Office, we strongly oppose or protest, either alone or in the Liberal Democracy, because of the government's failure to participate in this meeting and the underestimation of the proposal tabled by Members, as expressed by the Members, once again expresses once again the underestimated attitude towards this assembly. True, the law that bound the state to build the NUK is old, so old that it is no longer up to date. The NUK building in the idea design is also old, as well as the technological solutions dictated by the development, of course the development of the information society, had to be complemented and revised over the year. But these are not questions that should be answered by this law. A number of substantive questions of this nature should be answered by the then competent minister, who had primary custody of the former destiny of building the NUK. At that time, the Minister of Science and Technology, Mr Marinček, led the NUK item as a polycarbonate code. But the distance from construction was still multilayered. And we need to know that. Nor should we ignore the fact that there was an archeology here, that there was a number of denationalization issues here, the redemption of dwellings, the search for alternative solutions and so on and so on. A short process, which was certainly multi-layered. That the new library is a completely necessary infrastructure facility, we find all the customers in Slovenia. We all have this goal ahead of us. We've got it all logged into our programs. With this law, we have only offered a way to achieve this goal. This method, i.e. the rental of a loan guarantee from the Republic of Slovenia, was proposed or made last year, but has been coordinated for too long or too long that it has turned from a positional proposal into an opposition one. And maybe that's what beats him. But I'm asking if it matters whose it is if we know that all of us, not just the signatories to this law, are in the interest of this building. We all know that this project represents a very large budget burden, and the existing funding mechanisms directly from the budget are difficult to implement, so we have proposed a way of gradually paying off the loan. We suggested it. You don't like this solution. The rooms aren't listening to me, but you don't like this solution. We don't know which one is better, obviously, we assume that this answer exists, or else it wouldn't be rejected. You'll find him, no doubt you'll find him. It will make it easier for you to close open questions related to spatial land solutions that are in the care of the Ljubljana municipality. The city congregation has invested a billion and a half dollars in land production. 800 million for land purchase, 650 for almost archaeological research and geodesic services and engineering. The country is about 4 billion, including co-financing of rents for the NUK security location. The spatial solution is confirmed, the archaeology is adequately resolved and any change in conceptual solutions would be questionable at this time. After all, the construction of NUK 2 would also close the spatial problems of CTK and, in part, the Faculty of Philosophy. If colleagues and colleagues do not support these solutions, I suppose they exist differently, because there is no doubt about the necessity and necessity of this construction. We're all on the same page here. However, in view of the peremptory arguments against this law, we are concerned that it is doubtful about this national project. While the government is not doubtful when it opens up new possibilities for the indebtedness of the municipalities and thus the state, it is doubtful that it is in charge of building a fundamental identification point for national knowledge. That is why we support the law, of course we do not support the decision of the parental committee. I think that the law is real and not virtual, as the government is to me, as I emphasize today's absent government, that is, a virtual government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u208	Thank you, Mrs. Shirci. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The proposal for a decision will be decided today in the framework of the vote at 6.06 p.m. in accordance with the timing of the meeting. That's six minutes from six. I'm breaking this agenda. I'm adjourning the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 6.06 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u209	Dear Members and honourable Members! Please calm down and take your seats. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Before we go to the vote, I ask Members and Members to check the functioning of the voting apparatus. An orange lamp shall be lit on the right side of the device, in which case a vote may be taken. Anybody got a problem with the voting device? As I can see, no one. We are moving on to the end of the 1st item of the agenda - questions from Members and Members. Following a proposal from Mr Saš Pečet, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: "The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of Finance, Dr Andrej Bajuk, to the Saš Pečet's question on privatisation of the New Bank of Maribor." Mr. Pece, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u210	Your Honors are here! Today, in my opinion, the National Assembly has almost the last chance to talk about the sale of state property in the banking sphere. As you probably all know together, at least as many of the media and professional articles that have taken place on this subject, understand, is threatened by the New Maribor Credit Bank with forgiveness of 170 employees. Which, in other words, means that a cost reduction will begin before privatisation. However, after the most important and appraised stage of my initial assessment, the National Assembly should assume so much responsibility and, on the other hand, so much credibility that it will finally take into account the decision adopted in the old Chamber of the National Assembly in 1994 that it has ensured to citizens and citizens that a law on the privatisation of banks will be adopted. The Minister of Finance assured the transparency of sales yesterday. Ladies and gentlemen, transparency can only be achieved through an extensive debate in this National Assembly. And I believe or express my wish if you support today's conclusion that you will also act in the interest of transparency. I therefore once again call on all Members and Members to allow for a debate on the privatisation of the New Bank of Maribor, so that the story of the past period, which dates back to 1994, namely the Constitutional Law, will not recur until 1996, when the rehabilitation took place, and in the final phase of 1999, when you gentlemen who are in power today, proposed a law on the privatisation of banks, which follows exactly the same objective as that of the Slovenian National Party's Group, namely the transparency and reimbursement of all those costs that have been incurred in connection with the rehabilitation of banks in the burden of citizens and citizens. And all we're trying to do today is turn this burden into their benefit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u211	Thank you, Mr. Pechet. Mr. Lakhovnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u212	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we will support the proposal. We appreciate that it is extremely important that this debate be held because, with the reply of the Minister of Finance, we cannot possibly be satisfied. Today he talks about the privatisation of the New Bank of Maribor without explaining the fundamental objective of what is the purpose of this. Depending on that, we can talk about the real model of privatisation, so today we do not know whether he is actually looking for a strategic partner, whether he wants to maximize the price, or whether he estimates that he has to sell it for public financial reasons. These are current questions that we have not received an answer to; even more so, there is a suspicion that internal information is being misused. The fact is that some members, who are very close to the Prime Minister, are in the circle of his personal advisers, openly say that they have their own personal interest to participate in this privatisation is one member of the Strategic Council. I wonder how this member will be able to represent the public interest when there is a debate on the appropriate method of owning and selling the New Bank, how he can represent the public interest and at the same time his private interest. These are just some questions that are opening up. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we believe that now is the time for all of us to pour pure wine together and that a proper debate is being held, so we will support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u213	Thank you, Mr. Lakhovnik. We will therefore vote on the decision to hold a debate on the Minister's response at the next regular meeting. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 36 votes against 43. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the proposed decision was rejected by the assembly. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of the Mag. Milana M. Cvikla will decide on the following proposal for a decision: "The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance, Dr Andrey Bajuk, to the question of mags. Milan M. Squeaks in relation to the next financial perspective of the European Union." Mr. Squeakl, would you like to explain your voice?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u214	Just in addition to clarifying, of course, that we will support this. He supported the fact that the Minister of Finance did not know yesterday what the content of the Luxembourg Presidency proposal was, he could not say what the minimum negotiating position of the Republic of Slovenia is, and therefore, of course, we believe that at least, as expected, the government will prepare a serious response to this issue, as announced in some already convened committees, we should discuss this at a closed meeting of the European Union Committee on Affairs. Of course, I want you to support this proposal and, with the support of this proposal, in fact, show that you agree that the Constitution and the law on cooperation between the Government and the National Assembly are respected in Slovenia and that the views of the Republic of Slovenia on the negotiations in the next financial perspective are set out in this Chamber and not in such or other instructions to the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. This has not been done so far, and we have, of course, assessed the need to make this procedural proposal so that, of course, the government, the Minister of Finance, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who is scheduled to negotiate this with other colleagues on Sunday evening, the Secretary of State will explain what the position of the Republic of Slovenia is. Please, of course, support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u215	Thank you. Mr. Peche.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u216	The position of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group will, of course, be uniform. I would, however, like to appeal to the position of other parliamentary groups or Members who hope to vote in their conscience and come from the government coalition. Ladies and gentlemen, let us cut this limitation between the government and the opposition. The emissary initiative for the expanded debate presented in the framework of the Liberal Democracy is useful for the country and this benefit should be reflected in the 'yes' key in the next vote. Once again, I appeal from this city, let's forget about the narrow limit from where anyone comes from. Let's press "yes" when this is the case with our country. And, of course, the content of the debate, because nothing but debates, goes solely for the benefit of our country.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u217	Thank you. Mrs. Purgatory.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u218	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. The Group of Social Democrats will support the proposal of the Liberal Democracy, and there are several reasons for this. As a member of the Committee on European Affairs, I constantly observe the Government's under-appreciating attitude towards the Committee, which, under the law on the relationship between the National Assembly and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, certainly has the right to be well informed of all matters of fundamental importance for the fate of Slovenia. The next financial perspective is inherently linked to the fundamental development issues of Slovenia and the Social Democrats, we are asking development issues as our programme priority. That is why we feel that the debate on these issues at the plenary session of the National Assembly is urgently needed, as it will also not be possible to justify the fact that negotiating positions cannot be disclosed, since it will not only be about negotiating positions but also about the vision of the current government and its expectations for the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u219	Thank you. Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u220	Thank you very much. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members, I would like to say that we have already identified ourselves at one of the previous meetings before Mr Pecchet's proposal, which is why we have not spoken here today. This will also be an opportunity, Comrade Peca, to speak when the proposal comes to the National Assembly. As for the next proposal from the fellow Member of the Commission, let us pour ourselves some pure wine and admit that Slovenia's minimum negotiating positions on what the next financial perspective will be have little weight. I'm sorry, but that's what they're gonna decide, most likely, you can laugh, but that's the truth. Of course, we could discuss what is behind us, what we know, which is if I read some data in 2004: the funds received from the budget of the European Union for structural policy - nothing, the funds received from the budget of the European Union for cohesion policy - nothing, the funds received from the budget of the European Union for the implementation of internal policy - nothing. It's even worse with the means. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Please, if I may [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u221	Only Sok has the word!
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u222	Obviously not, because they don't want to hear it because it's the data they're holding. For the Schengen border, it's even worse. So, problems are elsewhere, the government is aware of them. In particular, it will be necessary to prepare projects, including for the reserve, and to invest these projects in a timely manner, but not as has been the case with cohesion projects, all in the second half of 2004, which means that there will be difficulties in implementing them in 2005. So if you want to discuss this, but we do not know what the point is at this point, we cannot support this proposal today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u223	Thank you. Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u224	Thank you, Mr. President. I will support the proposal, as already stated by colleague Majda Potrate, and we will all do so in the parliamentary group. I'm surprised by certain defetitism in those who oppose it if we don't have any influence. The proposal put forward by Comrade Squeakle is not the last call in force. The last call in distress for us in this House to address our thesis, our demands, our starting points for a financial perspective. Following the Constitutional Treaty, this most important document, which will emerge, is the material basis for the Lisbon Strategy and for all that follows, and we are not on the Committee on Foreign Policy or on the Committee on European Union Affairs have never given serious consideration to these topics. And I think it is indeed an emergency call, a proposal made by my colleague Squeakle, to deal with the relevant material and with the appropriate government responses, a debate. If we are taken into account or not taken into account, it is the first thing we are prepared to do - to take these negotiations seriously on the financial perspective - and secondly, our reputation. Even though we do not have the courage to discuss this in Parliament, of course there will be no consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u225	Thank you. Mr. Lakhovnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u226	I think it was just before justified why the debate on this is really necessary. Slovenia is a full member of the European Union and how important it is what our position is! How important it is! If the government has no knowledge of defending this position in Brussels, it is all the more necessary for an appropriate debate to take place here in the National Assembly. There is no excuse for this government to go to Brussels without adequate arguments. We were able to read in the media by two experts hired by this government so that Slovenia’s net financial position could be between 20 billion and 80 billion Slovenian tolars. 60 billion up or down, it doesn't matter. Excuse me. The budget of the Ministry of Economy is the same as before, times two. Short two. That's not a little money. Very quickly we can calculate that it is 30 000 tolars per head of every citizen or citizen in this country. How important it is for this discussion to take place! And to say that it doesn't matter here that Slovenia doesn't mean anything in this story anyway! That's the problem! The problem is that this government really means it. That is why the discussion in this national assembly is necessary now before it is too late. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u227	Thank you. Mr. Pece, you've raised your hand. You spoke earlier on behalf of the Group of Members. Do you want to explain your voice in your own name?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u228	If you allow me, given that I was appointed by Soka, and in my opinion, of course, totally unjustifiable. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u229	There's no replica. But you can explain your voice as a Member.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u230	If you let me take advantage of this option, then of course I'll take advantage of it in any way, but literally. See, when one of the representatives spoke on behalf of the New Slovenia Group that the National Assembly would be able to decide on the New Maribor Bank at any time, I must tell you that the privatisation process is in conflict with the Public Finance Act - specifically with three articles - that it is taking place in contravention of the basic constitutional charter and in contravention of the decision adopted in 1994. As far as the subject is concerned, and on my own behalf I call on all Members, let us go beyond this gap between the opposition and the position, let us also try to influence the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or its negotiators within the institution of the European Union and our country, that is, the Republic of Slovenia, in the new financial perspective, to obtain as much funding as possible. That's the purpose of the National Assembly, isn't it?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u231	Thank you. Mr. Gaber.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u232	Dear Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. I fully agree with Mr. Pecett here. It would be more than pointless not to talk seriously about the financial perspective they are talking about in Europe now very seriously. Recently, the Committee of the European Parliament has tried to find a compromise option between the Commission's proposal and the largest countries within the Council of Europe, the European Council. What we are talking about is the long-term perspective of the European Union. We did not go to the European Union because we thought it was some prestigious club in particular, but because we believed that if it was effective, the European Union could do well for our interests. And this difference, which they are discussing now, what the European budget should be, is extremely important for development and for the long-term positioning of the European Union. And so that Slovenia does not participate in this debate, at least not by being serious about it, there is no reasonable reason. I think, too, my dear colleague Sok, this is an amazing position: that Slovenia should not participate in this discussion.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u233	Thank you. Mr. Znidarsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u234	Thank you very much, Mr. President. On behalf of the DeSUS Group, I believe that, as a member of the government coalition, we must not be afraid of this debate and that this debate alone cannot harm us for two reasons. Firstly, in this debate, we would very much like to know why we have not absorbed more European resources in the past period, and secondly, it is right to discuss options for how we would do so in the future. And if this is really about differences, given that we don't operate with exact numbers and don't know them, then it's the least we can do to clear up the open issues in this debate, and then we'll see what we can do in the future. So our parliamentary group thinks that it is better that we all discuss this together if there are rules, rather than not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u235	Thank you. Mr. Rob.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u236	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! I would like to add something to this discussion that is taking place here today. Of course, I am sure that such a discussion would be very useful, very useful for the national assembly, very useful for the government and especially for Slovenia. The government decided, or the Prime Minister, when he formed the government and also proposed amendments to the government law that the government would not have a minister for European affairs. He decided that such a problem would be covered by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. The consequences are partly here. The first discussion and presentation of the new financial perspective had already been carried out and there was no foreign minister in this discussion, Mr Koprol, who obviously did not know the subject very well. And Slovenia has not reacted to a significant deterioration in its financial position, its financial position for seven years, proposed by the Luxembourg Presidency. The Luxembourg Presidency proposes to reduce Slovenia's net financial position from 80 billion to one billion. We have now been able to read some experts who say that even after the most optimistic option, we cannot be in a better state than 20 billion a year. That means we would have lost 420 billion in seven years. This is unacceptable and we need to have a discussion in the National Assembly, and this has nothing to do with the use of funds, which has now been discussed. It is also good to have this point of view, and we will be able to deal with it and, above all, to clear up the misunderstandings about the right to draw on funds and actual drawing. All these rights are still and all of the funds you have been talking about can actually be drawn in the next two years. So I appeal that we do this discussion and clear up these things that are unclear and help improve Slovenia's position.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u237	Thank you. Mr. Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u238	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I will also support the decision to hold a debate on the next financial perspective. In addition to the reasons already stated, I have at least another additional one, such as because today was more like that, a pedagogical reason. At least one, if not two Members of the ruling majority, we will even learn that he will be able to distinguish between the debate on the next financial perspective after 2007 and the debate on how the European Union funds are being used during the 2004-2006 budget period. If we achieve this and if we achieve that, people will understand when we say the next financial perspective, as discussed, we will achieve a great achievement for the ruling majority, and I think this is important too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u239	Thank you. Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u240	All I'd say is that I'm on behalf of a parliamentary group. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u241	Please, only Mr. Sok has the floor! Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u242	that I, on behalf of the Group of Members, have identified myself to the proposal tabled by Mr Cvikl. [[...]] Mr Cvikl proposed that we discuss Slovenia's minimum negotiating points. Now, fellows, this is your proposal, and now you're talking about everything else. But if you are prepared to discuss back, we agree, we can.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u243	Thank you. Mrs. Possonec.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u244	Thank you very much. I will also support this proposal, because we are waiting for the promised funds for the underdeveloped Prekmurje for free. In the neighbouring country, in all villages and in all the smaller towns and cities, they draw up plans everywhere, they make programs, and they also make a lot of money from European funds. I don't know why it's not us.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u245	Thank you. Mr. Mogue.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u246	Thank you very much. I'll support this decision, too. I think it's wise for us to talk about this in the National Assembly for once. I have mentioned several times that Slovenia is a drop or flea, however you wish, with marmalade only in the middle, as confirmed by Prime Minister Janša when he was in Maribor. He said that we do not only understand Slovenia as Ljubljana with its surroundings, and this debate here on the division and policy of the distribution of cohesion funds has helped us in any way, even if we can, once we have come so far, we will also be able to open a second level of decision to help us make our decisions for the first time. And a second time. He said, Mr Janša in Maribor, that if we miss certain things about cohesion policy, this will have unforeseeable strategic consequences for Slovenia. So we're talking about a huge pile of money, we're talking about how our people are going to negotiate this in Brussels, and I think it's wise for them to go there, even if they're going to talk, with a trip to the National Assembly, but not to go on their own behalf, because if they fail, they will bear the full burden of this failure, both materially and politically.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u247	Thank you. Mr. Squeakle, you've already spoken for yourself. Mrs. Zalokar Orzam. You've already spoken for yourself in the beginning. No, no, no. You did not say you would speak on behalf of the Group of Members. There is no specific explanation for the vote of the proposer. Mrs. Zalokar Orazem, you can explain your voice. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u248	Thank you very much. The financial perspective 2007-2013, and perhaps also drawing on cohesion and structural resources, is a topic that I think we should absolutely talk about in Parliament. Last but not least, I think we've spent almost a whole day discussing whether Slovenia will take over the Presidency of the European Union, which I think is a much less important topic than this. Finally, I would also like to say that it seems to me that there is no way that there is one party or one coalition in which there is a position and direction in this regard. We Slovenians have decided plebiscitely to join the European Union, and I think we all have the right to know some of the answers. If there is a matter of a confidential nature, then the work may be closed. However, I certainly believe that, given the answer that I myself have received to a similar question raised on the previous Minister Žagar, the medal answer, the pale answer, without any questions, in style, that is something confidential, trust us, and everything will be fine. In view of the fact that I am hearing today that some of the coalition think that Slovenia actually has nothing to negotiate there, because everything will be decided elsewhere, it seems to me that it is only in favour of how vital it is to discuss this in Parliament. I still don't know what Slovenia's position is, how we're going to behave, what regions we're going to shape, but we're on the verge. We're on the verge of everything or nothing, and we're playing a lottery that I don't think we can afford to let it concern just some individuals, one party or coalition.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u249	Thank you. Mr. Squeakle in the name of the Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u250	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I see you've given me the right time. What I will say, of course, on behalf of the Member Club, is that we will support the proposal to discuss the response of the Minister of Finance to the next question. In magnetograms and in my written question this was: "What is the significance of the last proposal of the Luxembourg Presidency for the further development of the Republic of Slovenia?" And that's what we're talking about. Whether 80 billion will be from the European budget every year or will, as the minister has said, be at least one billion. And that's what we're talking about. The Minister of Finance didn't answer that question. What we want to ensure for this debate is that the law on cooperation between the Government and the National Assembly is respected, where the Minister of Finance, as the leader of the working group, is given instructions in the National Assembly and this instruction is forwarded further. It is not enough within the government to explain to government officials employed in Brussels what to say. In Slovenia, like in Finland and some other countries, we have a law on cooperation between the government and the national assembly. This law is being broken. We have been either without ministers or without clear positions at the European Union Affairs Committee several times. Of course, the Minister of Finance said to my question here what he said at the closed meeting of the European Union Affairs Committee. He read the same material, despite the fact that the material has an "internal" marking and despite the fact that it did not remove the "internal" marking. They can check with the services if they want to. However, the problem is that there is not a single issue in it and that the Minister of Finance, who is the leader of the working group, who has numbers, because even in the newspapers, some experts write about them, does not want to talk about this in the National Assembly and because, of course, we have such a reply from the Minister of Finance and because I was not satisfied with such a response, we will, of course, support the LDS Club of Members that we come to the discussion of this proposal at least in this way. And Mr Sok, it doesn't matter what the position of the Republic of Slovenia is. Above all, why doesn't it matter? Because whoever represents Slovenia on Sunday night, if they in Brussels know that they have a clear position in the back of the National Assembly, they will understand it differently than they do that he is an authority, which in one way or another has been given powers, beyond the legislation in force in this Republic of Slovenia. If you feel that there is no need, then terminate and amend the law on cooperation between the government and the national assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u251	Thank you. Mr. Zagorac.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u252	Thank you for your word. Your Honors are here! I will not, however, assess the wisdom of government Members, but not least because it is in your interest to discuss how much funding the Republic of Slovenia will receive from the European Union. Last but not least, you based the 2005 budget rebalancing, and you based your income on an increase in certain taxes and the acquisitions of funds from the European Union. What will happen only in the 2007 budget, as long as you do not know or do not want to know how much money the Republic of Slovenia will get from the European Union and what is the perspective of your own government? Last but not least, we have heard many things about the transparency of this government. I assure you in Maribor or in our region you are walking transparently. I assure you that even if this proposal is supported, there will be photographers here and the whole government will be able to take a transparent picture, and explain, in the meantime, what are the funds expected from the European Union so that we will also be informed by the opposition Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u253	Thank you. Mr. Friday, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u254	Thank you, President, for your word. So I am also deeply surprised by the words of some coalition members, who, in my opinion even anemically, are thinking about some very, very fateful period ahead of us. How can it be said that we are so small that in fact others will decide about us, and in fact we do not have any [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u255	Mr Friday, please explain your voice, because Members cannot replicate to you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u256	I will therefore, of course, give my vote in favour of the proposal proposed by Mr Cvikl, because I will justify this by not only deciding on the resources that Slovenia will receive for this purpose, i.e. in this mandate of this government and this national assembly, but how much resources there will be for the mandate of the next government, for the next national assembly, and not only how much resources will be available after 2013 when these funds are drawn. [[....]] And another argument. We are not just talking about Slovenian funds, we are also talking about how much Europe is actually going to spend on the development of this Europe, but how much it is going to devote to some of the provinces, regions in this Europe, to develop faster, so that the Lisbon Strategy will also come into play, so it is not just our question, it is our smallness, it is a great Europe, which is why my voice is the voice of support.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u257	Thank you. Mr. Germich.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u258	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Members and Members! I will also support the proposal to hold this debate as thoroughly as possible in the Slovenian Parliament. For when we monitor the information and data that are coming on the issues of the next financial perspective, it is of course essential to understand it significantly more, because the financial perspective for the period 2007-2013 is in fact a debate on the policies that will take place in the next financial period. So it is very important here, what will be the position of Slovenia, for example, to subsidies in the field of agriculture, which Slovenia is certainly very interested in. Because it is very important to ask what proportion of gross product will, of course, be the decision on the next financial perspective. And of course, on the one hand, we have a proposal of a six and on the other hand certainly a lot of other members' proposals. And in a recent visit to the representatives of the Finnish Parliament, a very interesting journalistic question was raised: "Why does Finland not perform within this six, but is on the side of small countries?" And, of course, the answer was very interesting. At the same time, I would say, in a diplomatic note, because the Finns themselves are very tactically creating a negotiating position in Brussels. And of course this attitude of Slovenia would also be useful in creating support and coalition within the framework of the negotiations in the world and, of course, in shaping that proposal for the active role of Slovenia, which is a Slovenian country in favour. Of course, that is why I will also support the proposal for this debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u259	Thank you. We're voting. The vote is under way. 81 Members and Members are present. 41 votes against 39. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 39.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. This concludes this agenda item. With regard to point 2, I say that, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, the State Assembly will vote on the law on the termination of the Act on the Social Advocate of the Republic of Slovenia tomorrow. This is on Wednesday, 18.5.2005 after the end of the final point. We continue with the end of the 3rd item of the agenda - dealing with the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the correction of wrongs. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill in the context of a reduced procedure. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to table amendments in the third reading, so we are moving on to a decision on the law. In doing so, I inform you that the Government or the Legal and Legislative Service has not informed me that the law would be inconsistent. Mrs. Bebler.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u260	Thank you very much, Mr. Cuckoo. On behalf of the LDS Group, we would like to communicate our position or explain it. Europe insists on respect for human rights and the recognition of guilt and the correction of injustices. As a democratic and legal country, the Republic of Slovenia has solved the problems mentioned, namely by clearing up the injustices caused by the post-war regime and by correcting these injustices by adopting a law on the correction of the wrongs that allowed the victims to obtain redress for the wrongs caused within eight years. We therefore oppose the solutions to this proposed law on the correction of injustices. The LDS Club never objected to the rectification of the injustices, as it was the government in which the LDS participated in the payment of war-torn injustices. However, we are opposed to extending the eight-year deadline for making requests, since these will be decided primarily by those who have not submitted the requests so far, because their demands would be rejected and when the new authorities come forward, they hope for a fair schedule, of course not on the basis of actual eligibility, but political compatibility, or by heirs who have not been able to count on the more extensive financial benefits so far. The solutions also have unforeseeable financial implications which the applicant did not or did not even wish to assess in a framework manner. Therefore, the House of Representatives does not support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u261	Thank you. Mr. Peche.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u262	According to the assessment of the parliamentary group, the implementation of this law is aimed at the implementation of double criteria. Firstly, as regards the first category, which includes those who complied with the criteria and criteria, especially the timeliness of the application and those who did not respect it. However, according to our assessment, at least according to the assessment of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, it is that the war invalids in the war for independent Slovenia have received a period of only two years and such flat rates, for the first time, in terms of double criteria, are second in terms of grading the self-sustainment war, unacceptable. Therefore, we cannot support such a bill in the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u263	Thank you. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 33. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 33.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 4th item of the agenda - this is the consideration of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Act on Institutions. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill in the context of a reduced procedure. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to table amendments in the third reading, so we are moving on to a decision on the law. In doing so, I inform you that the Government or the Legal and Legislative Service has not informed me that the law would be inconsistent. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 81 Members and Members present, 79 votes against none. [[The vote was 79.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda - the consideration of the proposal for a law amending the law on police. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill in the context of a reduced procedure. Since no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body in the draft law, it is not possible to submit an amendment to the third reading of the amendments. That's why we're moving on to a decision on the law. In doing so, I inform you that the Government or the Legal and Legislative Service has not informed me that the law would be inconsistent. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 74 votes against none. [[The vote was 74.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. We continue with the end of the 7th item of the agenda - the consideration of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the primary school law. We continue with the second reading, this is the decision on the amendment tabled. Mr. Squeakle, will you explain your voice? On behalf of the delegation? This is an amendment to Article 1. In my own name. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u264	In my name, as I have discussed before, I will support this amendment because this amendment allows for at least a minimum choice for children. I hope that Members and Members of Parliament have a brief discussion with their children on whether or not they would support this. I think it is right to have a choice of children, and it is right to support an amendment that allows this law to be for rights and is intended for children, not some control of teachers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u265	Thank you. Mrs. Potrata, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u266	The Group of Social Democrats will support the amendment tabled. We do not see that the proposed amendment could fully correct what is omitted in Article 1 of the proposed law. At least it will allow children to choose an object they consider to be good at in the 9th year of the national knowledge test. This will, therefore, enable the development of a positive attitude towards school and at the same time make it possible to assess the level to which students have gained knowledge in their conquest. Of course, this may have an additional positive effect, since decisions will certainly not be directed at just one object per year, but will be dispersed, which means that school work will take place in a year and will not be subordinated to the one-time choice of the subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u267	Thank you. I ask Members and Members who are applying to explain their vote that those who wish to explain their vote on behalf of the Group of Members make this clear at the beginning of their performance. Mr. Gulic.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u268	Dear Mr President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! We have already talked about this a lot today, but given that it is still not clear that this amendment is an important matter, that it is a bit of freedom that children can get - that is, on the one hand of the scale - and on the other hand is comfort, say the Minister, then it is clear that it will draw, as far as my voice is concerned, a child's scale. On the side of the children, they will be able to demonstrate their ability, their desire, and their ability to show where they are best. On the other hand, there is, of course, something that cannot be complicated and overcomplicated. That's why ministers and institutions do things like this, and I don't know why they'd make their lives even more comfortable than they already are.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u269	Mr. Gaber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u270	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will support this complement for the reasons already mentioned and, in particular, for one that I would like to draw particular attention to. If we support this supplement, we are also giving the applicant the opportunity to complete or complete Article 1 for the third reading together and thereby the structure of the law in order to eliminate some of the inconceivable solutions that are now proposed in this law. Even if the coalition decides not to accept this option further, it will now have, with the support of these amendments, at least an opportunity for further reflection. That is also why we will support this supplement.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u271	Thank you. Mrs. Zginer Tavsh.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u272	Thank you very much. I will speak on behalf of the Group of Members. The amendment tabled by the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group is clear. In fact, I would like to point out once again that what we heard in the debate really surprises me. Few actually know what the law itself brings and what we want with the amendments in the Slovenian National Party to actually fix or prevent. I would like to point out once again that the function of the Minister is a political function and that the content of the subjects should be prepared solely on the basis of a professional perspective. And this is what the Minister is proposing to blur, and on the other hand, the students have already had the opportunity to choose and to retain this possibility in the end. Last but not least, this makes sense because of the purpose which the Minister interprets within the framework of the law or specifically this article. The national verification of knowledge after nine years is supposed to be mandatory, but it should only serve to get a student of some kind, I will say, "feed back" or feedback on how much he knows and what his abilities are, in fact, and especially in the direction that the student is particularly interested in. However, I must also mention that the Minister did not actually convince me in explanation. Last but not least, the Minister did not give the answers raised in the Slovenian National Party in explanation. I would like to point out another important issue, which is also also important in order to make an expert decision on the amendment. Within 20 minutes, the minister says, for the first time, "the amendment of the Slovenian National Party will break the whole concept of law and education reform," and in the next minute or in those 20 minutes, his next sentence is "if we accept this amendment, we will do nothing." It's interesting, but it's an empty, unprofessional explanation of the well-respected minister of the Beast.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u273	Thank you. Mrs. Zalokar Orzam.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u274	Thank you very much. I'll support the amendment. It refers to the fact that the third subject would remain a truly selective subject, and this is not an elective subject for the Minister and his every time commission, which will, of course, leave the students for a long time in complete ignorance, which will be the subject of this selection. This seems to me to be an additional problem in all that will mean that all year long it will not be known which of these items will be selected as optional. I don't think the Minister here is consistent with his statements. This is the distance from the relaxed school that he wants, this is the distance from the autonomy of the students, the distance from taking into account their wishes and their interests, because it is certain that the students would choose an object that would be interesting in terms of their further education, and this may be, at the choice of someone third, by the choice of a country, an object that will be far from what will be [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u275	Please, a little more peace, just Mrs. Zalokar's word.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u276	related to their further education. [[...]] I think it's bad. However, I fear that we will slowly, as foretold, come to the conclusion that this elective item will probably be a very soon-to-be religious and that some will probably be very happy.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u277	Mr. Lakhovnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u278	Thank you very much. Dear Members and Members! The option of choosing is in an open, free democratic society a value that needs to be defended. As a liberal, I will, of course, support this amendment, which is trying to correct what it can do in this law. I don't know who's afraid of the possibility that kids can choose. I don't know who's afraid that decision-making will be left to parents and children. Why are we reintroducing a concept where a minister, who is also a political figure, such as "dans ex machine" - god from above, will determine what is right and what is wrong. What he's going to do instead of kids and parents.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u279	Please, calm down. Mr. Lakhovnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u280	Thank you very much. It should be pointed out that the choice is also provided in the university study that this study is changing into a greater choice to highlight the credit study as much as possible. And I don't know why at the end of a nine-year-old, at the end of a nine-year-old, it would prevent children and parents, the minimum, as I said, any liberal would support, anyone with some free spirit, that choice and trust in children and parents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u281	Mr. Saiovic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u282	Thank you very much, Mr President, present and present! I will be happy to support the proposal of my colleagues from the National Party, because this is a proposal that trusts our parents and our children to make the right decision. Contrary to what I heard a month ago in the evening hours on the hearth radio, when it was said that children were being raised in such a way that they were scattered in one corner of the stick and in the other. That seems bad to me because there's no way to get out of the corner, and there's nowhere to make any progress. However, I want each room to have at least four corners and that there are large light doors on the opposite side that allow for choice, as the poet says, that children will find a way where you are free will, faith and law.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u283	Thank you. Mr. Peche.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u284	Your Honors are here! Today, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party Group, we have tried, within the framework of the voting point, to prevent the politicisation of privatisation and now we are trying to prevent the politicisation of education. According to our assessment, that is to say, according to the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, even policies of the ruling majority allowing opportunities [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u285	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u286	allowing one of the ruling parties' programmes to be included in the school system. [[..]] According to our assessment, building the future of the country, or the future of obtaining electoral votes exclusively on the political parties' programmes, is, once again, unwarranted and low even for the largest political party. Let us allow education our way, allow education professionally, and let us all try to remove politics from this area together. The amendment of the Slovenian National Party is intended for this purpose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u287	Thank you. Mr. Mogue.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u288	President, thank you very much. I will also support this amendment, as it brings extremely great benefits to a child who can also bring great benefits to society, because it is a good model and brings some work to the ministry more than if they had only one subject. I think the Ministry should be able to make an effort to provide children with what we have declared to be a knowledge-based society. But I think if we don't accept this, we're going to put our kids in a very stressful situation. The law, as it is now, foresees this - now imagine - instead of being prepared in the last triad for the subject, the Minister will choose this proposal from all the proposals for these items in March, and in June the children will write these things. I think that this is unacceptable and unacceptable from a pedagogical point of view in the area of quality, so I ask you to support this amendment and try to find another solution for the third reading, which would improve this law at least in this point, because it is very unfriendly to children at this point.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u289	Thank you. We're voting. We vote on the amendment of the Slovenian National Party to Article 1. There are 80 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 44. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments were adopted in the second reading to the amended proposal, it is not possible to table amendments in the third reading. That's why we're moving on to a decision on the law. In doing so, I inform you that the legislature or the government has not informed me that the law would be inconsistent. That's why we're voting on the law. Treasuries, do you want to explain your vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? Yes, there you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u290	The Group of Social Democrats will not support the proposed amendments and the completion of the Basic School Act. Not that they would, in principle, be against cutting into any marriage with changes. But we are opposed to the way the changes have been made. We are opposed to a reduced procedure that did not allow a broad debate on the proposed law, which was not accompanied on the home labour body by the proponents with appropriate explanations, and we have now heard that even trade unions have appeared on the home labour body. For Social Democrats, partnering is an essential component in making quality decisions. SWIZ is a representative union that has openly stated where there is consensus and where there is no agreement in the teaching union for the proposed amendments. In any case, it must be disputed that the law had to be adopted so quickly that there was no other way out. But I would like to point out that this point, "where there is a will, there is a path" has already been cited in this National Assembly, and if the Ministry of Education and Sport really wanted to listen to the suggestions of the professional public and also to see that the section on the proposed amendments does not look uniformly, but it would point out that the proposed solutions are inadequate, then the Ministry would hope that at least the regular procedure would agree if it did not propose a one-year derogation from the law. I'm afraid none of this has happened. We have also witnessed the arrogance of such a degree that some have referred to the opinion of the profession, which was not then observed in the media. There are therefore many reasons for not supporting this proposal. We oppose it on behalf of the preparation of quality solutions that would be experienced in the context of consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u291	Thank you, Mrs. Patrati. Members and Members, please hold a little longer and allow a little more peace to the one who explains his voice. Mr. Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u292	On behalf of the Slovenian National Party Group, I publicly announce to everyone that the Slovenian National Party of this Act will not support and renounce all liability to the consequences of this Act. At the same time, we estimate that, on the basis of Articles 7 and 57 of the Constitution, we can assess that the Constitution has been violated. We're not going to produce cyber children, ever, ever. One fundamental right of decision-making, decision-making by children themselves, what they will do, what they will learn and of course how they will be involved in the learning and working process. The Slovenian national party strongly opposes the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u293	Thank you. Mr. Gulic.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u294	Dear Mr President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! When the amendment was not adopted, it is clear that this has created another major gap in the law, namely the possibility of Mr Minister, his discretion to introduce through this gap in fact whatever he wants. Of course, all 15 subjects based on school are equivalent. It is clear from this logic that the profession will be able to defend the one chosen by Mr Minister every time. The second option, of course, is also likely that the singularity that is happening in this Parliament will happen here, namely that it will choose the same object every year, otherwise everything else would not make sense, because it would not have occurred, nor would it have occurred to the diachronic comparison. This is one of the reasons why I will vote against it. The second reason, which is also important, is that after thirteen years, external knowledge checks are discontinued, which prevents now comparison between individual teachers, comparison between students of individual schools and good parental insight into the knowledge of their children there until the third grade of primary school. By 6:00, it'll be hard to fix everything that's gonna be delayed. And the third reason is one who has actually shown himself to be worthy of graduation as well as another thing. It's all just for comfort again. For comfort and, of course, for a lower price. Schooling is too serious to be making fun of. I'm serious.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u295	Thank you. Mr. Mogue.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u296	I will speak on behalf of the Group of Members, Mr President. In the Liberal Democracy after this event, when we voted on the amendment, we will not support the law for the following reasons. We have already mentioned that this law is completely contrary to the opinion of a large part of the professional public. Secondly, the Minister has given almost no answers to our questions. For example, he did not say how we would use the points reached in the Nitrogen lesson to make the transition, nor did anyone in his words know that. And the answers were so confused that no answers were given to questions of their own weight. Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you of the following. As you know, Prime Minister Janez Janša offered to cooperate with the opposition for this speaker. We wanted to take advantage of this offer, but it was already rejected in the process. Then, in the Liberal Democracy, we tried to improve the text of the law with our amendments and, look at it, a fraction, everyone was rejected. We have also tried to support the amendments of the Slovenian National Party, but we have also received a slap on the left and right from the position here. Dear colleagues, be aware that we are playing with the adoption of this law with national interest. In my firm belief that I have worked my entire life in education, we are also doing our best to break this school law. Anyone who votes in favour takes full responsibility for themselves. In the end, I'd say this. Also what Mr Janš's example told us about this stage of speech, about cooperation, we see that it was not the truth itself, that they were empty words themselves, and that, in my opinion, it was true, 'a great love at the end of the language and in the middle of the heart is nothing'.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u297	Thank you. Mrs. Zalokar Orzam. Please, be quiet! Please, Mrs. Zalokar Orazem has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u298	I will not support the law, because it is only one of those laws that the government and its ministers are bringing to Parliament without shame, without pre-negotiating changes to the professional debate, a broader debate to take into account the opinions of others. This is how it happened yesterday with the law on RTV, so today with this law, so it will obviously be tomorrow with the law on notariat and changes in the field of health. Okay. This is the path they chose. There can be no support for such things. Of course, these are also poorly prepared laws. As this law abolishes knowledge verification at national level, the external verification of knowledge, which is the same for all, has not received any clear and precise response today, no explanation as to how the criteria for the selection of pupils will be developed when they are enrolled in secondary school. Are these going to be re-acceptable exams that are actually something that we might say we're going from the rain to the drop, and we already know them? Are these going to be some multi-annual participations in circles that will count and give students extra points to work in sports or cultural activities? Will this visit be any special items that will be rewarded in this way? In short, this should be left to discretion, to school itself, or to some misplaced matters. Such misplaced things, when we do not have these answers today, absolutely in this House, I do not think we can and cannot support without bad conscience. That's why I can't support this marriage. However, I hope that the applicants are aware of how much they are likely to get revenge in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u299	Thank you. Mr. Germich.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u300	Thank you for your word. When we discussed the Timss report, it was clear from the coalition species that the concept of a nine-year-old should be changed. Of course, I am a proponent of change when necessary and when changes are based on professional basis, on the basis of a broad debate. Today we are considering a law that does not have any of these elements, except that we have been very segmentary about changing one concept of primary education. Of course, there was no answer today as to why we stop external testing of knowledge after the first triad, despite the fact that most or a large majority of parents and children are voluntarily involved. I have a son who just did it days ago. The experience of our family and himself in this regard was very positive. Of course, I want parents and families to have such positive experiences in the future. I do not understand in any way the argument that a decision for a third subject is required by the Minister for External Verification at the end of education. And an even more guided explanation is that the decision on when this subject will be known must be kept as secret as possible in order for the students to learn as far as possible. If these are approaches for students learning in primary schools or students in secondary schools, of course this is not the right approach. And, of course, the signals in this way are not real. Therefore, in view of the very unfounded solutions in this law, I will not support these solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u301	Mr. Zagorac.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u302	Thank you for your word. In view of the fact that the amendment of the Slovenian National Party was not supported, I think the ruling coalition has opened wide, I will say, the side door, because the mains did not have enough to present them here for the introduction of a possible new item. For today, this is the Minister's will, which will be this third subject, but we all know that within a year, two of these objects will become permanent. When the Minister said in his closing statement that the reform of primary education has not yet been completed, I am afraid that the next item with which Minister Zver will come for this speaker will also be the choice of the Minister for another subject. And there will be only one subject left in Slovenian, and the minister will choose another. I fear that the title of this subject will be the political calculation of the Slovenian Democratic Party. That's what I'm afraid of. There has been a politicalisation of education, so this law, as my colleague Barovic has already said, will not be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u303	Thank you. Mr. Friend.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u304	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! I have previously spoken and asked, of course, all colleagues and colleagues to support our amendment with reasonableness, because it is good because it speaks of the fact that the third subject should not be decided by a person sitting in a political position. Since this amendment has not been adopted, I can say that the shoes in this case will not be tried by the 'copitar'. We are concerned that this concern is not present in DeSUS, which should care for the younger population, the results of the vote suggest this. Of course, the law we now have before us is not good, so I will vote against such a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u305	We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 44 votes against 33. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 33.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 8th item of the agenda - discusses the proposal for a law to supplement and amend the law on holidays and holidays in the Republic of Slovenia. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on supplementing and amending the Act on holidays and working days in the Republic of Slovenia, the reduced procedure, is not suitable for further consideration. Mr. Bevk, would you like to explain your voice? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u306	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. A respected choir! I will explain the position on behalf of the Socialist Group of Members. Our delegation's decision-making group will not support it. With the proposed amendment, we wanted to achieve that, at all the events mentioned and not mentioned, which had a significant impact on the existence of the Slovenian people, we would remind ourselves of the plebiscite decision, thus linking the day of independence with the day of unity. In this way we would repay all our ancestors who hoped to dream of united Slovenia and who, with their work and also their life, made it possible for us today to be a proud and recognized nation in Europe and the world. Because today the law and our amendment will probably not be lit by a green light and, in view of the Government's intention to prepare its own law, and if it makes sense to summarise our proposal for a day of independence and unity, we Social Democrats are prepared to withdraw our law from the parliamentary procedure and support the government's solution. Especially since the Prime Minister announced this in his speech on 9 May. I state his claim: "Considers that the moment of the greatest Slovenian unity is plebiscite for Slovenia alone. In this respect, it would be appropriate to supplement the name of the State holiday, the day of independence." [[End of story.]] Today, we will vote in the Socialist Group of Members against the decision of the Home Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u307	Thank you. Mr. Juban.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u308	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I was one of the proponents who would like to celebrate the accession of Prekmurje to the home country of Slovenia. And through this solution offered to us in voting on this proposal of the parent working body, I do not think this desire will come true. In the Slovenian public, let's face it, we will not wish a great success with such and different legalization of the celebrations later, especially since it is two holidays that would not be a day off. Even so, if we are to make any laws, we need to know what we are going to do and what we are going to celebrate. And this law that's in process, I think, is the basis that we can then tell whether we're celebrating Primorska and Prekmurje with a date. In Prekmurje, we had no dilemmas, as they were otherwise, although historically speaking, there was a series of events that could be celebrated when Prekmur was joined. However, in a general holiday, which is supposed to be a consensus, of course this matter will not be visible and, personally, another solution to this holiday of Prekmur's accession is not a real solution to us, which is why I am still in favour of the solution that we have on the table today, and I oppose the proposal of the mother's working body. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u309	Thank you. Mr. Zagorac.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u310	Thank you for your word. Respectable present. In the Slovenian National Party, of course, we will oppose the decision of the parent working body. In our opinion, it is a law that has been prepared, as it is still, qualitatively and according to our belief, today the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia could devote some respect to both the Primors when they join Primorska to the mother of Slovenia and to all Slovenians by deciding on 23 December for an independent and independent state. The government, if it has a serious intention to draw up its own law, which they believe will address in an integrated manner the issue of holidays, has had the opportunity, like all parliamentary groups, and I must say that some here have taken advantage of this, to amend the proposed law if the government is convinced that any other date is suitable for celebration. The government's perception that we will cause certain financial implications for the state budget in the Slovenian National Party is ridiculous, as we have said. Our purpose was to mark these two dates as a holiday and not a day off. But there is another reason why we will vote against the decision of the parent working body. This is the introduction of a new dimension in the preparation and adoption of the laws proposed by this Government. This is the dimension, taking into account or doing public research on whether a particular law is paid or not to be incorporated into a parliamentary procedure. I think that is exactly the way the new government, as the government's representative said on the labour force, will have negative financial effects on the state budget and not on the law, as proposed by the Slovenian National Party. However, I will be happy to monitor the content of the government's proposal for a law that we are about to receive in a short time, because I do not think that it will be different in essence from the proposal that you have before you today and that it will in fact only represent a bad copy of what we have proposed in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u311	Thank you. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 77 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 25. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 25.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. Therefore, the legislative procedure on the bill has been completed. This concludes this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 10th item of the agenda - second reading of the proposal for a law on the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for the credits of the National and University Library, hired to finance the construction of the University Library in Ljubljana. We are moving on to a decision on the next decision. The proposal for a law on the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for credits from the National and University Library hired to finance the construction of the University Library in Ljubljana is not suitable for further consideration. Mr. Run, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u312	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Social Democrats' Group of Members, I declare that we will not support the proposal for a decision of the parent working body. I would like to explain to you that we, too, and the Members of the Social Democrats, were dissatisfied that the draft law was first reached in the previous and current terms of office late, but that the right solutions were being sought. There were many different views, and it was finally found that the country's budget would not have at its disposal for a long time, with all the ambitions, all the funds that could be made available from two or three ministries within two, three years of funding in full, and that therefore hiring a loan with a guarantee would be the cheapest and best solution. Even if he pays it at the end of the budget, which is highly likely, he will pay it in the longer term, when the National and University Library, together with the interests of the Central and Technical Faculty of Philosophy, will have been carrying out its mission for a long time. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, do not pretend that this is an unacceptable solution, do not pretend that at any time or very difficult it will be possible to gather all these funds and not pretend that the investment is not verified. The government commission, where the experts were, examined it from all angles and if you are going to do so now in the next six months, I will be truly pleased if this can be demonstrated in the budget in November, as I do not want to say that you may not believe today. However, all of this could be done earlier if we were willing to vote in favour of the law being appropriate and would reject the proposal of the decision of the parent working body, and then make sure that we find the right solution for the investment, for which you are in one vote, I believe that, frankly, you have said that you know that we should have it long ago, and especially that we should start building it at least in the following year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u313	Thank you. Mrs. Shirca.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u314	Thank you very much. The Liberal Democracy also opposes such a decision, which raises doubts as to whether or not we will be able to implement a priority project for all parties. With this proposal, the signatories offered an opportunity to facilitate the final construction of a national and university library requiring a huge amount of funds, more than 14 billion and a half billion. We know that budget funding alone in the way that the government then explained that it would like to do so is not possible to do so. As a result, the guarantee was offered, thus offered, and was also rejected. But since we assume that the government has another solution, we expect this solution. However, we must say that the basic legislative stone of 1994 was laid, there were opportunities to be looked for, many of them had a fig in their pocket at that time, but at the same time we know that a lot of things were done at that time. Lands were acquired that did not allow construction at the time, archaeology, which did not allow construction at the time, and denationalisation procedures were resolved and thus saved. So far, 5 billion have been invested not only in obtaining a location, but also in rehabilitating the existing sites that need maintenance. We all have one goal: we all advocate that this is a priority national infrastructure project required by this country. We know that at that time, the state is looking for and giving opportunities to be indebted to the municipalities and is not asking whether that is right or wrong. In this case, he wonders and doubts about the solution that was well-intentioned. If another is to be found - I hope that, given all the promises that they are, indeed, these promises do not cover as many target populations as any other promises - then, of course, at that moment, we will support another solution. Now we think that's a good one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u315	Thank you. Mr. Gulic.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u316	Dear Mr President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I will vote against the proposal of my mother's working body, because it seems to me, or I am sure, that this delay actually prolongs the possibility of building the National and University Library II, which Slovenia certainly needs very, very much. Not only is it a library, but it is also a national attribute and it is obvious that this feeling of smallness already takes us so far, that in this will of singularity we feel that it would not even be necessary for this library to be too large as we are small. This defictism, of course, does not seem to be good enough to undermine the reputation of our country and of course of the people, as well as of the parliaments, who are still waiting for something to be proposed by the government. However, when they propose to the Members themselves, one part is against them because the government has not yet proposed anything. I also said that because you didn't see my hands before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u317	Thank you. Mr. Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u318	Thank you. In the Slovenian National Party we will vote against the decision for a simple reason, because we do not see any guarantee other than that contained in the bill for the construction of the National University Library. The proof that we do not see it is that a number of revisions of procedures have already been announced on the working body, which you believe I know, take several years before the story begins at all. And secondly, if there were really as many benevolents to the new university library as was expressed everywhere, then this bill could be adopted and later refinanced. So I know that the National and University Library will not see new light, spirit and education, new spaces, a series of years. And this date can be remembered, for with no guarantee, it has been assured that probably many of us will have been retired for a long time when he will listen to our craftsmen in Parliament when they will still talk about the NUK. The Slovenian national party opposes the decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u319	Thank you. Mr. Testen.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u320	Nicely greeted. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members, I would like to say that our Group will vote in favour of the decision, especially for the following reasons. I do not think it is acceptable that in the situation where we are trying to enter the euro, we are doing such a task in the public financial field. If we were to adopt such a way of financing the construction of NUK, then we should also adopt a way of lysing the various schools that have been proposed. I don't think it's acceptable for each other, so we're going to vote in favour of this decision. However, I would like to tell Mr Barovic, because he mentioned earlier that some governments should be trusted - although experience is poor, I think they can be better in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u321	Thank you. Mrs. Zalokar Orzam.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u322	Thank you very much. The National and University Library is a national symbol. It is a symbol in all environments and in all countries, even poor people who always try to set an example, a large enough, branded building and store it in national memory. Of course, it is a symbol only for those who appreciate the knowledge of the book and who appreciate the memory that is collected in the National and University Library. And it is high time that even in Slovenia we actually put among these priorities, not only in a verbal sense, but also in terms of finance, a library. I think it is time to gather energy and will, especially to raise money, and this guarantee law offers - to raise money and to enable a building with which we obviously have little luck in Slovenia, unfortunately. Just like we don't have any luck with the stadium. And obviously we would need some of these symbols; what kind of euro will not really help us in this. It would be necessary, however, for such matters to be decided unanimously for an object such as the NUK represents. And we can only learn from our predecessors what the building was like in the National and University Library and how important the library was years ago, when they built one of the most famous buildings in Ljubljana, Plečnik's building, which we are proud of today, which unfortunately became too small, beating through the seams that have on, I think more than 20 locations of stored book and operating in completely impossible conditions. It's a shame we're gonna miss this opportunity today.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u323	Thank you. Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u324	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. Messengers and Members! I'm going to go against the proposal of my mother's working body. Why would I oppose him? Because, of course, in preparing the government's opinion and in implementing itself, it was quite clear that it was a matter of deceiving the National Assembly. Why? First of all, you wrote in a coalition contract that you would build a national university library during your term of office. The government then apologized twice for not being able to give an opinion on the law because it is preparing a budget rebalancing. Then you gave an opinion and said in your opinion that you oppose it, but you will do so in 2006, 2007. When we proposed on the home working body that the debate should be suspended and that this should be included in the 2006-2007 development programme plan, of course, you said the ruling coalition, no, that is not the case because the opposition proposed it. At the same time, in your coalition agreement, perhaps Mr Rous should be called here as the controller of this coalition agreement, you say that you will solve the problems of investment with the public-private partnership. You need a guarantee for a public-private partnership. And that's what this law allows you to do. We have proposed the suspension of the debate, the submission of the budget for 2006, 2007 and, of course, the implementation of this law. That's not what you want. You do not want this, you just want to oppose the opposition's proposals and, of course, delete all proposals. At the same time, I will also oppose this because there is a budget rebalancing in the National Assembly, which, despite the increased funds, no longer gives money for the NUK, for knowledge, but gives more money for current consumption. We have a completely schizophrenic situation in public finances, which, of course, Mr Minister does not manage, and in this way we will not make good decisions about projects in the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u325	Thank you. Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u326	Of course, according to what we listen to, it is easier to adopt laws on guarantees. The former government accepted 475 billion guarantees after the publication of Minister Mumorr. Now, of course, some of these are already happy to cash in. That's the content of this law. As for the statement that the documentation is ready. Look, the explanation says that up to now 4 billion tolars have been used, not five, but four, and as far as the land is concerned, the bulk of the land is already acquired. This is, of course, far from being so far away that it can actually begin to build. The bulk of it, you've written it down in your explanation. This, of course, raises one big question when this can actually be realized. Of course, we are in favour of resolving this matter as proposed by the government, but not as stated in this law, the only content of which is that we owe more than 10 billion, that the moratorium on repayment is six years and the interest rate is 4%. Such laws, gentlemen, are very easy to write. Of course, the second question is the realization of this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u327	Thank you. Mr. Bajc.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u328	Thank you, President. In spite of the late hours, two words. Many Baroque were spoken by those who reasoned with Baroque words on how they supported this law. I don't know where all those 11 years have been since it entered into force in 1994.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u329	Please explain your voice, no [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u330	I'll explain it at the end. I expect that there will be at least so much support when the budget is considered or when we talk about building a library. At the moment, the basic conditions are not met, and this is the location information and the building permit, regardless of the fact that one of the colleagues said that the foundation stone was even laid. I don't know on what grounds. That is why I cannot support this bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u331	Thank you. Mr. Rupar. Please, be quiet! Mr. Rupar, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u332	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll support this marriage. As far as schizophrenia is concerned, just explain it to me, and convince me that I am wrong to uphold the law. Eleven years of construction, 11 years of construction, the foundation stone was built, if I'm well informed. But the rest of it was a little digging through that land. And now, if I understand correctly, we need 14 billion more before we finish, which is almost 20 billion for the NUK to be built. And tell me, if you're wasting billions, if that's just enough for the base stone, then what is schizophrenia? That's what I'm really interested in. This concept in debates [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u333	Mr. Rupar, you can't ask, just explain your voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u334	I didn't really get it. [[...]] But fear is quite simple. Provide a guarantee that there may be another four billion stone and another four billion stone next to this foundation stone. And that will be all that will remain of NUK practice. It's worth giving guarantees that three pieces of stone will be placed on the land where NUK will be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u335	Thank you. Mr. Lakhovnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u336	First of all, it is important to clarify that we are voting on the proposal of the parent working body. There's something you need to say. The debate on the Committee was very clear and, of course, I will vote against the proposal of the parent working body, because we have already proposed that it be discontinued and that either through the budget rebalancing or in the 2006-2007 budget it be ensured that the construction of the national and university library begins with a guarantee. That's all it was about. Do we really want to do something or not? Will we respect the commitment to become a knowledge society or not? It's very simple. That is why, of course, I will vote against the decision of my mother's working body today, Mr Rupar, because I believe that the law is suitable for further consideration and is not a stone, but a decision for or against the parent's working body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u337	Thank you. Mr. Mogue.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u338	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. I have to say, I'm glad we have our own country. But whenever it comes to our culture, that's when we're all very stepmotherly. If we are at a celebration or at a cultural event, we are almost crying from the pursuit. If we look at the culturers who helped create this country, when we didn't have an army or capital, we say, these were the "kerl's," they were the ones that somehow helped the nation to have what we have today. You know, the thing is, these 11 years aren't even long. The Slovenian National Theatre in Maribor, which was built by the state and the co-financing congregation, was built in the first phase for seventeen years and the second stage for twenty-five years. And similarly, it happens to all other cultural objects. One section was when we adopted a cultural tolar; then we built a little more public libraries, looked at monuments and all these things, but still below 30% of what we said we would give them. In 1994, when we talked about these things in the National Assembly, when we were all Members for getting our national library - the library is essentially the heart of the nation - nothing has happened until today. And even with this act, if we don't support this law today, it will be as it was in that Partick's comedy of Szczuka, not when he said, not today, maybe another time.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u339	Thank you. Mr. Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u340	I will try very briefly, even though it seems to me that we could have built a small library during this discussion. I myself have been among the signatories to the bill, and as I have advocated at that time, I am also today advocating the need to build the NUK. At the same time, I listened to those warnings that said that it might not be a good time. What was it that led me to support the proposal adopted by my mother's working body. For the first time, when they brought me a proposal for a law to sign, they told me about my question and my concerns about unregulated things, let's do it so that we can at least start with the procedure. And I also agree with that - so let's start, so let's take an affirmative approach. Secondly, I would like to say that the question of whether it is the right way to finance has also given me a thought. And I don't think we've chosen the best way of funding. The third or the next thing I want to say is that I want the government to take responsibility, as stated in the Coalition Treaty, for what it has entered into the Coalition Treaty and for its programme, so that it assumes the obligation to actually build the NUK. But the coalition contract does not say as it was said earlier that the NUK will be built in this mandate. It says that the construction of the National and University Library will begin in this mandate. And our commitment is, at least, to those of us in the coalition, to constantly pressure the government to begin these procedures. On the home work body, we proposed that the Investment Programme was made this year, we even demanded, and one of the Members who disagreed said that we actually have nothing to ask from the government.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u341	Thank you. Mr. Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u342	Thank you, Mr. President. A respected choir! The foundation stone is not made of marble, so it's still where it stands. Otherwise, Mr. Rupar, as they say, is a stone on a stone palace. As paradoxical as it looks, you have decided not to do this construction within your mandate, and you have obviously left it to us. I hope that when we take over the government again, we will be able to make this investment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u343	Thank you. Mr. Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u344	Thank you. Only because of a colleague who has just spoken would I draw attention to my deep disagreement with what Mr Pavel Rupar said earlier. He was talking about this fundamental stone. That's not true. The NUK now has, because of the wrong policy of the former government, in which the very political force that has spoken has been involved, wings around for years, the plane is called a plane, and now foreign tenants are undervalued. This is the story of the Slovenian NUK, which will be extremely difficult to fix, and this repair will take many years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u345	Thank you. Mr. Sculpture.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u346	I'll do it. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u347	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u348	Honourable colleagues and colleagues voted against this decision. [[...]] The few people who follow the debate on investment in culture, science and education will remember that there were few of us who failed to convince different, including their colleagues about the need for this investment. NUK is so, I'll say, victim of two circumstances. One is too much ambition, and I think that Minister Bohinc and one of the games that ruled at the time, who will invest more quickly and will be responsible for the construction of this building. This was a strong retaliation for the building, even though there was considerable support in that hall. The NUK has an even bigger problem with what I would call rural intelligence, which is distributed practically across all political groups. Whenever it was necessary to make a decision on some priorities, it was first in line, from village gyms to cultural homes, from the last chapel to what road. This coalition, which was against the centre, as is now being taught, nations and cultures, has always been strong enough not to be able to vote on it. Today, colleagues in position, is an extraordinary opportunity to take a step forward. Last time he turned the board, even my colleague Mr. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] A violin that opposed it for 11 years or as with arguments [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u349	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u350	Like he had [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u351	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u352	We can still laugh, but it's always the same thing. Those with a majority may decide [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u353	Mr. Skull, time is running out.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u354	That's why I invite you, smart in hand, to vote for the NUK. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-17-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u355	Thank you. We're voting. The vote is under way. 79 Members and Members are present. There were 45 votes against 33. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 33.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the legislative procedure for the bill has therefore been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item and interrupt the 6th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. Good night.
