ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u1	Good morning and good afternoon, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We begin the continuation of the 8th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and cannot attend today's meeting of the following Members: Josip Bajc, Bogdan Barovic, Matjaž Han from 2 p.m. on, Victory of Jelinčič Tribal, Rudolf Petan and Villa Trofenik. We're moving on to 16. Period of the agenda - First defence of the proposal for a law on non-cooperation in the performance of public functions. In doing so, I inform you that the debate is scheduled to take place for 4 hours and 40 minutes. The draft law was tabled by a group of Members with the first-signed Yelinčič Trimeniti. With regard to this law, a group of 16 Members, signed first by Rudolph Mohet, requested that the national assembly hold a general debate. I give the floor to the representative of the proposers for further explanation of the bill. Mr. Friend, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u2	Mr President, thank you for your floor. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the proposal for a law on the incompatibilities of performing a public function with a profitable activity has raised some dust in Slovenia. There is much to be said especially by those who have made great efforts in the previous term to avoid the various disclosures of corruption. The most recent case, which has been very resounding and has never been penalised, is the SIB. In the Slovenian National Party, we believe that to date the State Commission has not done its job and that two problems have been faced mainly in key operating problems. First, poor quality detection and prosecution of corruption and crime. Secondly, the absence of ethical standards in the public sector is pronounced. In the Slovenian National Party, we are convinced that the Slovenian State is the one who should have more transparent checks on the use of public funds and that these measures should be more restrictive in violators and, of course, that abuses to such an extent, particularly in the use of public finances, should not occur. Today, the Commission has almost no legal powers to prevent corruption and even less tangible results of its work. He does not participate in criminal proceedings relating to the crime of corruption, does not prosecute or file criminal charges. The detection of criminal offences is in any event a matter of domestic law enforcement and various inspections in the Republic of Slovenia. Finally, every citizen and every national authority under Article 145 of the CAP is obliged to inform the prosecution if the offence is a crime. Therefore, the desired results have never been seen by the Commission and, in fact, no restrictive measures or prosecutions have been made by this Commission. About what was deliberately overlooked, perhaps a little later. In the Slovenian National Party, we believe that the Commission is only a large budgetary consumer, that the work of these Commissions is being duplicated by an existing national assembly commission and that the necessary delegation of powers should take place, since it is essentially a matter of doubling the works and, in fact, a multi-party participation in this committee could provide a greater guarantee for a balanced operation in this area. Citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia clearly want more honesty in spending money, but not the daily affairs in which billions are disappearing, and no one is responsible. Let me talk about the financial implications of this law. They're gone. If this proposal is accepted, there will actually be savings, because we know what salaries are on this committee. Thus, the national assembly commission in its existing composition assumes the tasks and competences of the anti-corruption commission, thereby eliminating the duplication of the existing tasks of the two commissions. We think that this is rational and that this is actually more transparent. However, it will be in the responsibility of all of us to defend the use of public finances in a qualitative way, for, last but not least, we will all be included in this with full powers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u3	Thank you for the introductory explanation. We invited representatives of the government to the meeting of the National Assembly. Before the meeting, on Monday, I was informed that Dr. Lovra Šturm, Minister of Justice, and Robert Marolt, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, will be attending today's debate. I'm asking the representative of the government, would you like an additional, supplementary explanation for the bill? Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u4	Thank you very much. First of all, I would like to apologize to the Minister, Dr Lovr Šturm, for he is attending the meetings of the Council of Ministers of the Interior and Justice in Brussels today. The government considers that the title of the current anti-corruption law is now inadequate and too wide. The current law regulates, in substance, the prevention of conflicts of interest and therefore the title of the proposed law is more appropriate as it relates only to the regulation of the incompatibilities of a public function with a gainful activity. The current law imposes on the Anti-Corruption Commission, in addition to the reasonable tasks relating to the control of restrictions and prohibitions applicable to officials, also certain tasks which do not apply to such committees. For example, the preparation of a anti-corruption strategy, which should be under the authority of a government that formulates policies in all areas relevant to the prevention of corruption. The Government considers it more appropriate to limit the tasks of the special commission to monitoring compliance with the restrictions and prohibitions as proposed. The existing anti-corruption commission has very limited powers because the law currently in force is only preventive. It does not allow for measures to detect corruption and for the rapid and effective conduct of forecasting and criminal proceedings relating to corruption offences. From this point of view, the very purpose of the current anti-corruption law is questionable. The government supports the transfer of powers to the Commission of the National Assembly and the composition of this Commission, as the multilateral composition ensures a balanced functioning and the strong role of the opposition ensures quality control of authority, which is undoubtedly an important mission of such a commission. The proposal for a law in Article 6 deals with the question of the conduct of a gainful activity for private purposes by officials performing a professional function. The Government considers that the proposal for a law in Article 6 should clarify whether only certain activities or other activities are allowed for officials, unless there is an effect on the objective and external effects of independent performance. In the Government’s view, it would be appropriate to allow officials to carry out their activities, such as medical or other specialised professional activities that do not affect the performance of their duties to a lesser extent, which also allows for the normal performance of their duties. The Government considers that maintaining such minimum contact with the profession to which the official belongs is useful for ensuring the personal independence and integrity of the officials. Of course, it is necessary to maintain the prohibition of carrying out activities which could have any effect on the impartial and objective exercise of the function. The Government also considers that transitional provisions would repeal the provisions of the sectoral laws governing incompatibility so that the same rules would apply to all officials. The obligation to register assets under the applicable law has become so wide that the management and use of these data has become questionable. It should be more appropriate to limit this duty to professional officials and persons in management positions. The government also considers that consideration should be given to the full public of the assets of the most important or most exposed officials, which ensures the highest degree of transparency, while preventing any manipulation of data. The proposal for a law in Article 13 provides that the official who has increased his assets is obliged to explain how the increase took place. In particular, the Government supports that solution, which represents a step forward compared to the applicable anti-corruption law and the previous Act on the Incompatibilities of the performance of a public function with a gainful activity. In my opinion, however, it is necessary to set a minimum. In particular, it would be appropriate to consider restrictions under Article 20 of the bill. In some cases, these restrictions may prove unnecessary and absurd, which could be resolved by clearly laying down the criteria for the decision of the Commission and leaving no discretion to the Commission. I also believe that restrictions should be eased for officials at local level, so that they do not apply to dealing with budgetary users or public entities. On the other hand, restrictions should be tightened so that they are not only linked to formalism, to companies owned by the official or his neighbour, but also to related subsidiaries. So the government doesn't object to the proposals of the law, because it thinks that [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u5	Mr. Marolt, please, if you finish.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u6	The law is conceptually appropriate. In the event that the draft law is included in the next legislative procedure, the Government itself will complete and remedy these shortcomings by means of appropriate amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u7	Thank you for the presentation or introductory explanation of the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We are moving on to a presentation of the views of the groups. The first presentation will be carried out by Ambassador Dara Lovtijar Bebler on behalf of the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u8	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. A well-respected choir. It is undeniable, therefore, that the main purpose of the proposal for a law that we are considering today is to abolish the State Anti-Corruption Commission as an independent and apolitical body planning measures to prevent corruption, to address the causes of corruption, to establish integrity plans and to monitor their operation and to monitor the assets of officials and to limit the business of contracting entities under public procurement rules with business entities, in which the official or his family member or family member is involved, as well as the purpose of the proposal of the law to establish an inadequate situation in 1992, when the supervision of the non-compatibilities of the performance of public functions with a gainful activity and the property status of officials was carried out by the National Assembly Commission. The Liberal Democracy of Slovenia opposes such a proposal by members of the Slovenian National Party or the first-signed Helinčič Victory to abolish the anti-corruption commission. The Republic of Slovenia has finally acquired a body that has established control over all officials in the Republic of Slovenia and restrictions on the operations of companies owned by these officials, with the state and local communities. The supervision provided by the 1992 law, which is intended to be re-established by the SNS Group of Members, was carried out by the Commission, which was established in the National Assembly and consisted of Members themselves. This control has proved inadequate, both because of the lack of staff and insufficient resources allocated to the work of the Commission and because of the conflict of interest, as Members have literally supervised themselves. However, the scope of its control was limited, since other officials, such as those in the congregations, exercised their own control. The suspension of the commission would lose an independent, impartial and professional body. Members of the Commission must have at least a university education, at least 10 years of work experience and must be persons of public confidence to perform their duties in the Commission. Their function is not compatible with the function of the State authority, the local community body, the political party or the union, the work of the State authority, the local community body or the institution of public authority, and it is clear that the proposers of the law want to prevent or reverse this control if they are considering re-establishing inadequate parliamentary supervision. By removing the proposal from the anti-corruption commission, the body which carries out analytical, coordination and educational tasks in identifying and addressing the causes of corruption, develops integrity plans, monitors and analyses statistics on the state of corruption in the Republic of Slovenia, cooperates with the competent national authorities in preparing and coordinating anti-corruption legislation and so on. Until the establishment of the Anti-Corruption Commission, this task was carried out by the Anti-Corruption Office, which was established by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia as a self-sustaining professional service on 13.7.2001. The Office has done great work to prevent and analyse corruption, prepare and implement the State anti-corruption strategy and coordinate the activities of other competent authorities in this area. However, he did not have any powers to control the assets of an official who had been improperly regulated, and he also suffered from a lack of powers in relation to other areas of the fight against corruption. The question of its independence was also present in the public at all times, as it was directed by the government as a political body. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we have therefore advocated the establishment of an independent, impartial and apolitical body, a commission to prevent corruption, which has also been referred to the recommendations of GRECA, a group of anti-corruption countries in the Council of Europe and other international organisations. If the law is passed, Slovenia will be disgraced in the international public. If the anti-corruption commission is abolished by law, Slovenia will have to re-establish it in the future. Slovenia, by signing the United Nations Convention against Corruption, has committed itself to having an independent body implementing the national anti-corruption strategy. In addition, the proposal for a law stems from a professionally flawed assumption that repressive measures are the only and sufficient means against corruption. In the assessment of the situation and the reasons for the adoption of the law, the proposaler thus states, citing: "that the applicable law on the prevention of corruption is flawed, because, of course, it does not contain exclusively preventive measures for the detection of corruption and for the rapid and effective conduct of pre-emptive and criminal proceedings relating to the criminal acts of corruption." End of quote. The problem with the current law should therefore be that it is only preventive because it does not deal with existing corruption. We could expect the applicant to follow his own logic and propose to remedy this deficiency by introducing additional investigative powers, which would equip the Commission to conduct forecasting and criminal proceedings in relation to corruption crimes. But no. The proposer proposes, on the contrary, the abolition of the anti-corruption commission and its obligations in the field of prevention as a whole. Since the Commission has no investigative actions, it will not have jurisdiction in the area of prevention. As we know, in our country, following the current regulation, the function of detection and investigation of crimes, including corruption, and the function of detecting and apprehending their perpetrators are systematically charged to the police as a body within the Ministry of Internal Affairs. It is therefore totally wrong to report to the law in force that it does not contain measures for the rapid and effective conduct of forecasting and criminal proceedings relating to corruption offences. The current law already makes it clear on its behalf that it governs the prevention of corruption and not the detection or prosecution of perpetrators. If the applicant would like to improve the quality of detection and prosecution of corruption crimes, which may be a real problem, he should propose either amending the laws governing detection and prosecution or other concrete measures that would lead to improvements in the work of the detection bodies. In the world, established anti-corruption programmes stem from the need for a comprehensive response to this phenomenon. In Slovenia, the modern requirements for the integrity of anti-corruption measures reflect the resolution on anti-corruption adopted by the National Assembly in June last year. This document, which has many elements of the national strategy, follows from the correct conclusion that only a repressive response to corruption leaves completely intact systemic and other causes and circumstances that make it conditional. Only a repressive response to corruption does not allow a long-term improvement of the situation, as criminologists have found in neighbouring Italy, where the anti-corruption campaign known as "Mani Pulite" took place primarily on a repressive level and therefore did not bring about and could not bring any lasting success. A comprehensive and wise response to the problem of corruption is even based on prevention. The current anti-corruption law has therefore laid down the basic criteria for such planned, professional preventive work. It should only be implemented and upgraded in the light of experience in practice where necessary. If I mention only a few shortcomings and the worst solutions that are most in the eyes, the other weaknesses that my colleagues will describe in marriage. The proposal for a law was either not the most thoughtful or they wanted to mislead us, since in the part of the law that talks about international comparisons, they cited inaccuracies in the organisational solutions that other countries have. According to the proposal of the law, the terms of the debtors for the surrender of property would be narrower than under the law in force, so that those persons who were the most talked about would be excluded. These are directors of public institutions and funds and associated persons. All officials will be able to practically accept gifts of any value. However, if anyone finds out that they have accepted an illicit gift, they will be charged with a fine of up to 150 thousand dollars, which is a ridiculously low penalty compared to a gift that may also be worth 10 million dollars or more. Incompatibilities of functions are regulated so that officials can perform almost all other gainful activities in addition to their functions. The only restriction laid down by law is that this must not be an activity which could affect the objective or external effects of independent performance. It is entirely inappropriate, however, for restrictions that apply to non-professional officials to be stricter than professional officials and could even be listed. But most of all, we're worried about the latter. Shortly after his term of office, the Prime Minister had publicly considered the abolition of the anti-corruption commission, as it would be the transfer of powers to anti-corruption authorities that lack the power and competence to act properly, simply to confuse the problem and to waste money irrationally. The proposal for a law tabled by Members follows in explanation the thinking of the Prime Minister. Therefore, we are asked whether, in the case of this bill, as has been the case so far, it is a political trade which, instead of a government, someone else is performing tasks that would have a negative response in public. The management of the ruling coalition in addressing this bill will therefore prove to us whether, in this case, it is also political trade and chronic evidence, whether the Prime Minister, as an opposition Member, fought corruption, clientism and theft - three k-ji, as you remember - meant seriously. Some of the actions of the ruling coalition have convinced us otherwise, because some individuals in the ruling elite authorities and the related functions represent a spoil of war, which they must divide and defend with the words, "Chat, you have enjoyed for 60 years so far, and now it is our turn." And that kind of thinking leads exactly to three k's. Will the Prime Minister, for the sake of peace, decide, in his own kind, to look at both eyes? In addition, the Prime Minister is reminded that the government is also politically responsible for combating corruption. If the government really wants to take an active approach to the fight against corruption, it has a lot of work to do. The National Assembly has adopted a resolution on the prevention of corruption in the Republic of Slovenia setting out the necessary measures to combat corruption and on the repressive authorities that prosecute perpetrators of corruption, the police and the prosecutions in order to start enforcement. However, so far, it is unfortunately a step in the opposite direction. If the government and the Prime Minister fail to act properly, they will only confirm the suspicion that this is a planned politically motivated destruction of the Commission. The Commission, although legally responsible for the implementation of the resolution on the prevention of corruption in the Republic of Slovenia, has serious difficulties in communicating with the new government and its ministers, which do not carry out certain tasks by means of a resolution. In the media, it was so possible to trace the statements made by the president of the anti-corruption commission, who claimed that the police had asked the anti-corruption commission to stop sending her allegations of corruption. The latter was also confirmed by the Minister of the Interior, who, in response to a question from our fellow Members, claimed that the police would accept the commission's future applications. The government has tightened the Commission's budget to such an extent that it is impossible to carry out its statutory tasks; the Commission currently employs 5 officials and 5 public servants; the simple calculations made by the Commission in its work report by 23.5.2005; the report also forwarded to the National Assembly; they show that the Commission cannot carry out all the work that the Anti-Corruption Act puts before it. As long as the financial and human resources conditions for the work of the Commission are improved, these tasks will be forced to be classified by priority, which means that the enforcement of the law will be distorted and inconsistent. The Commission informed the Government in due time of these problems, and this was initially confirmed by a financial plan, which was, in fact, 60 million tolars lower than the proposed one. The Commission agreed to this because it had given up some of the necessary investments, but the government later decided to trim the financial plan for another 21 million tolars, as it believed that the Commission would be able to carry out the planned activities with existing staff. The last decision of the Government, in the light of the above-mentioned needs of the Commission, is totally unrealistic and shows the Government's respect for the rule of law or the duty of state authorities to enforce the laws in force. In addition, a commission which is unable to carry out the statutory tasks fully by means of such means for its operation could at any time manifest insufficient performance and thereby justify its termination. The government wants to reduce the salary of the President and members of the Commission by a decision on the salaries of officials. Is it just random, or is it too random, to be a coincidence? Finally, we would also like to point out that due to the Government's negative attitude towards the Commission and to the Act on the Incompatibilities of the Public Functioning of the OECD Working Group on Corruption in International Business, Master Goran Klemenčič, who became a member of the Committee as a personally invited expert, has irrevocably resigned. Mr Klemenčič stated in his resignation that these reasons create circumstances that make his work difficult to continue. Quo vadis, the government? The Republic of Slovenia will have to make further efforts to convince members of the OECD Working Group on Corruption that Slovenia is serious about preventing and prosecuting corruption. It's over. We need a highly professional, specialised and autonomous body against corruption, which, based on the results of criminology and other sciences, comparative analysis of good practices and experiences of other countries, and a good knowledge of comparative legal arrangements, guides long-term anti-corruption activities in the Republic of Slovenia and protects high standards of action in public and economic life. For all of this, it is a proposal for a law on the incompatibilities of performing a public function with a profitable activity to take a major step back in institutional anti-corruption activities in the Republic of Slovenia. The solutions proposed are counterproductive and do not contribute to reducing corruption in Slovenia, on the contrary. Therefore, we cannot and will not support the LDS proposal in the Parliamentary Club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u9	Thank you for your position. However, Comrade Dusan Kumer will give the position of the Social Democrats' Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u10	Thank you for your word. Dear representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In the Socialist Group of Members, we believe that the proposed law is not a good basis for further consideration, and we do not therefore support it. We believe that it is quite inaccurate and, in most cases, a copy of the law on the incompatibilities of performing a public function with a profitable activity adopted by this National Assembly more than ten years ago, and its adoption would have been a step back in regulating this problem; that is, corruption and clientism in Slovenia, which we believe is still in place, and far from being eradicated and reduced social evil. On the contrary! If the assessment and finding that the most corruption and clientism in Slovenia is in economic and political elites, then we are looking forward to an increase rather than a fall in corruption and clientism. For the economic and political elites in Slovenia have been strongly strengthened in the last bad year. The new elites have joined. It's just that the human resources mills are spinning fast. Therefore, according to the Slovenian public, corruption is still a worrying and frequent phenomenon in Slovenia. It is true, however, that if, on the basis of the experience and effects of the police and the prosecution, we judge the amount of corruption in Slovenia, then we could say that, in fact, there is little corruption in Slovenia and that we do not need institutions such as the commission, because the awareness of everyone else is so high that corruption is simply not. But of course it's not. In this context, it is therefore incomprehensible to see the Government attaching itself to the idea of abolishing a commission as a state-owned body that controls the assets of all officials, both executive, legislative and judicial, and advocates the idea of self-control, as we know in the past and, as you can see, with no results. It is therefore again the idea that political elites try to re-establish the system when they control themselves. It is even more incomprehensible to recall that this government, this ruling coalition, has won the last elections precisely because of the promise of a more effective repression of corruption and clientelism in Slovenia. Now, however, its first move is to remove the tested European standard, which we have barely introduced and implemented since last year. This, however, is an independent control of public and management functions that can be potential hotspots of clienteleism and corruption. It would therefore be more prudent and wise for the government to prepare a proposal for amendments and a supplement to an existing law if it already considers that the law in force does not allow its anti-corruption strategy to be implemented. In short, the views and ideas following the abolition of the anti-corruption commission, which has not yet started with its work, which now acts as an independent state body, are more than a public message: political and economic elites want to regain self-control. The proposal that the parliamentary commission, composed of Members and Members of Parliament, should carry out these tasks is contrary to the intention of independent supervision. And to make a little fool of myself, given that we have adopted the report of the Anti-Corruption Commission at the last meeting, I must say that this proposal, given the scope of the work and the tasks that this Commission is supposed to carry out and should now be carried out by the parliamentary commission, is inconclusive. The same would apply if the Commission were established within the executive branch. In short, in Slovenia we have a comparable solution with the countries of the European Union and do not hold the reference in the introduction to the material, which lists solutions in some other countries. Evidently, the applicant used years of old material, since the solutions in these countries today are quite different from those described in this introduction. In our case, however, we have also come across a situation where the work of the Commission has just started - since last October, that commission is functioning - political and economic elites are trying to break or diminish its meaning or even abolish it. In short, one gets the feeling that since last May that famous night meeting of the National Assembly on Corruption and Corruption has turned everything upside down. That this issue, i.e. corruption and clienteleism, is no longer so up-to-date and that estimates that in companies where the state is the majority owner, where it places supervisory councils, where they replace administrations, where the clear and clothing, where the master is so called, and the government, the government, the government, often behaves completely politically, makes business decisions that are irrational and not economical, and that, as a result, there are fewer funds for everything else, for wages, for pensions, for scholarships, and that, as a result, taxes are also higher, these estimates and findings are no longer valid after nine months. Allow me to express a few doubts and define this as simple conjecture. The Social Democrats Group therefore considers the current anti-corruption law to be an appropriate basis and basis for the implementation of the adopted resolution on the fight against corruption adopted by this National Assembly last July, and of clientism in Slovenia, and that the recently established Commission as an independent state authority can perform the most operational tasks, both in the resolution and in the law. This means that, on the basis of past experience, amendments and amendments to the law can also be drawn up with a view to making the law more effective. In her opinion, the government also drew attention to some things that would make sense in the law to supplement or amend. So the Group of Social Democrats of the proposed law will not support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u11	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the position of the New Slovenia Group. Comrade Aloys Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u12	Dear President-in-Office, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, the President-in-Office of the Anti-Corruption Commission with fellow Members, I may give a slightly different opinion than my predecessor, but it is normal for us to have different views in this house. So, as far as New Slovenia is concerned, we certainly advocate that corruption be successfully pursued, prevented, says it is more important to prevent than later action and, in fact, not only corruption between officials, which is certainly a major problem, but, in fact, everywhere where corruption can occur. After all, we don't show up among officials. So, the last case that we can all read about, which has already been brought up here today, the case with Mr Hellard, it is not an official, or at least it is not an official in the form that this law refers to, but it is a matter or it is a matter that is still under investigation - that I do not prejudge anything. So we would certainly like to oppress and persecute corruption in Slovenia in a way that we can often read, we hear from various events in the world. For example, not so far back to Enron in America, then Parmalat in Italy, where, in fact, certain services have previously performed a whole series of previous actions, after things have been definitively determined when they record all illegal procedures when they record persons involved in this, and then - if I use the word called "hit" -- actually at some point in time. They strike by suddenly taking all the documentation and having everything on their hands. And then, of course, they quickly investigate the matter and those involved know what awaits them. Or if I mention, say, the case of the loss of elections a little less than eight years ago in Germany, the affair with the financing of the electoral campaign of the CDU and Helmut Kohl. So, the thing went to the top, to the chancellor, to the highest level. In Novi Slovenija we ask whether it is possible to do something like this in Slovenia with any commission, especially with a commission, which is also called the National Assembly and which is in force today - in fact, in Nova Slovenija we have already adopted this law in December 2003 as if we were going with camel tea to a difficult angina. And, of course, we're still here. If you look into the law, in that Chapter 4, which speaks of control over the assets of the officials, and then says Article 32, "the commission controls the assets of the officials" to not read the articles, then in Article 35 speaks of what the official must submit to the commission after the commission has taken office; then Article 36, which must be reported, refers to property, higher value of the property, of course more than 2 million then it says; then on shares of economic companies, on money in banks, on debts related to guarantees and other obligations, on annual incomes which are the basis of income. And then, if he doesn't do all this, if he doesn't follow these articles, then what happens? Article 39, the Commission warns, is called upon to give him an additional deadline, to warn him. Then, if he does not take note of the warning, he suggests to the paying authority that he should be paid a little bit, but that he cannot be reduced to a minimum basis. In the event that it does not soften itself and then submit the required data to the Commission, the Commission shall, of course, propose to the authority which appointed it to initiate the procedure for its termination. And then, in accordance with the fifth paragraph, that authority shall re-warn it and verify it whether or not it has done so. It is said that this is one process that can last forever, and finally there is nowhere to be determined, and then what happens in the end. Of course, there may be some controversy between the organs, and of course we have not come to it yet. Such a toothless law, of course, does not give the Commission any operational opportunity to act effectively. And another question. Nowhere in this law is it stated, what if this official simply reports some information that is not real. He just wrote something. The Commission has this on it. If he was honest, he can write anything if he wasn't honest, he can't write much. We can overdo it, write a lot more, then in the next few years it reduces things. In fact, this does not have much effect, such as the current law. Maybe I'm imagining this marriage wrong, but when I read it, it's the way things are. And of course, such a law is not operational. In New Slovenia, we fully agree with the government that in fact the fight against corruption is the task of various institutions. So, first of all, the police, the prosecutors, the courts, finally, when the proposal comes to light. What does the police have to do about it? The police must be highly trained. I guess that's what I'm talking about. For those who do this are always one step ahead of those who pursue them. And this kind of mating is often not easy. You have to be very on the current side, and you have to monitor this very "properly" and fulfill it so that you can evaluate these things properly. The same applies, of course, to prosecutors and courts, but at the same time it is true that they must be independent of state authorities, autonomous on both financial and political grounds. What is the function of the National Assembly? The function of the National Assembly is certainly to adopt such laws as are not ambiguous, which leave no interpretation because nothing helps you. Persecution authorities can do anything, but then they meet with a law that is interpreted differently, and I think it is actually the biggest problem for us to interpret the laws differently, that is, like the daily "pasha": once again a little differently, and therefore in Slovenia we have not yet concluded in the courts. In the courts, I don't think we've completed any of the legal procedures that actually wasn't quite before the courts, there were a lot of them. And it does look like corruption in Slovenia. And we all kind of find that it really is, because after that ranking, when others rated us, we are 29th place; it is said that the infamous 29th place has Slovenia. I don't know, maybe it's better this year, but last year it was 29th. So the National Assembly must adopt laws that are clear. Our laws are not. We find out, say, the law on tax procedure. There can be no greater confusion than in this law. Not only do taxpayers interpret this law differently from office to office, and then, in the end, we can only assume it. If I mention only one law we passed here in the National Assembly, the law on the protection of house buyers. The more complicated in the formulation, the impossible marriage I had actually read, and already we had warned that such a law did not mean a solution to the problem, we could read a little back in the newspaper about the new apartment affair, there was a new fraud by the buyers of apartments, and then there was a claim that this law would prevent it. It cannot prevent the law from being so that even lawyers do not understand it, let alone the buyers, then, of course, such a law cannot contribute to preventing matters. The third actor in preventing corruption, which has a major role or a major role, of course, is the government; the government has to adopt a strategy, the government has to work a programme without any commission doing so, but the government is the one who must therefore constantly deal with these pressing problems. As far as the Commission is concerned, of course this committee has not done any work. So far, this commission has recorded some things, according to the law, it has gone into some things very wide, especially in New Slovenia, we have a feeling that the municipal councillors have gone, which is not a problem that it would not have been - it is. But in order for this to be such a big problem that first, with such a scale, it is necessary to identify the property of the municipal councilors in the congregations where the saints have, say, 10 meetings a year for which they receive a few thousand meetings; so, a much larger problem is elsewhere, but because we have to do something, we started somewhere on the tail, but we know everything that fish smells on the head. So the Commission will have to deal with these matters differently, not that municipal councilors had to fill in a few forms, that they had to go to the land book to look for partial numbers so that they could sign in the numbers on which their property, house, weekend, or something like that, they had to photocopy the income decisions. After all, let us settle these matters in such a way that what is officially possible to obtain is acquired by the authority, but not that I have to go back and send an income decision twice. Why? It does exist at the tax office and let the body that does it acquire it in this way. As far as the law before us is concerned; in Novi Slovenija we are not the most satisfied with the dictates of law alone. It will need to be corrected in several articles. It will be necessary to define exactly who is actually the official who is supposed to be committed, so that, as I mentioned earlier, we do not control those saints in small municipalities who are doing this volunteering and, in fact, are now giving way to many things. In larger congregations, however, saints may also be a case of trouble. When, for example, connections and acquaintances are used and then they come easier through public procurement to some form of municipal business, etc. It is therefore necessary to look very closely at where this control should go and, above all, at what measures can be taken on this basis, of course, in order to make these measures effective. Our proposal is that the Commission, whoever will do this, will have greater powers in this area, and the question is, if these greater powers do not interfere with the autonomy of the judiciary, the prosecutions, and then the opposition will immediately attack and say that we are somehow interfering with the independence of the judiciary. What I would like to mention in the end is that in Novi Slovenija we are also very surprised how some institutions outside our country care and worry about how we will handle certain matters in Slovenia. Before the adoption of the law on RTV, they were very active with their comments on how we need to regulate in Slovenia, how we enter democracy step back. Now he's doing the same "Transparency International" thing, which warns us to reduce control. At the same time, we could say that we are very surprised that these organizations that care so much about our legal arrangements never draw attention to any other matters that we have not yet regulated in Slovenia. Thus, in these days we can hear, for example, only for comparison, if I say that the greatest massacre since the war in Srebrenica was, and we know that there was an even greater slaughter in Slovenia, that we still do not have the war graves arranged. Even the philosopher, Mr Tina Hribar, points out what it means not to bury the dead and so on, not to mention. But that's just it, by the way. These gentlemen, who jump to some information from Slovenia and immediately write it as an axiom, and that of course they should be listened to, so let them also imagine after this wage. Many corruptions should be investigated in Slovenia. It's a lot to go back. I'm not having this affair again. They're very big. A lot of people have suffered damage. I think that a strategy will, of course, have to deal with these matters differently than this committee that we have today to prevent corruption. To conclude, we will today support this bill, with the desire to complement it with an amendment, in order to make it clear that the possibility of preventing corruption will be greater, that it will not only be a form of confusion, but rather a truly complex fight against all corruption in all areas. So much for now. However, as a party, we will, of course, participate actively in our proposals, if this proposal is to receive sufficient support today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u13	The position of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group will be presented by colleague Srečko Friend. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Mr President. So, at the outset, I would like to point out that no one in the Slovenian National Party has any doubts about the President of the Commission, but we do not want to act as some do, especially the President in the public eye, stressing that in essence the path of corruption and customerism in Slovenia will be open if this commission is abolished. Of course that's not true. These tendentious statements by the President of the Commission are simply unrealistic. It's about doubling parts. We have a national assembly commission and a commission that is supposed to deal with what it is not dealing with and, in fact, the pressure of citizens and citizens requiring a transparent review of the use of public finances. In the Slovenian National Party, we respect the fact that the President of the Commission is willing to participate in the drafting of the law in the next procedure, insofar as the law remains under consideration. In doing so, we would also like to draw attention to the fact that we are barely in the first reading and that all those who want to contribute constructively to making the law better, more transparent and more useful can make amendments. Of course that's what we want. This is the first hearing. Marriage can become even better, for no thing is so well done that it could not be even better. What bothers us most about what is in force today? In fact, those who are the most controversial - directors of various public institutions - fall out of the narrower circle of debentures for the surrender of property. And it is these public institutions that are in the majority ownership of either the congregations or the state. It is in this very public institution that there is an open possibility that, in fact, public funds will be allocated in some way. The possibility of submitting amendments is open and all the information that we have mentioned as proposing is correct. However, so that this does not only sound like an initiative and a word, I would point out some facts. I myself, in this short term since I was a Member, on 29 March 2005 I have given the Government of the Republic of Slovenia a parliamentary initiative and a question in which I clearly ask whether the Government will solve the specific cases of obvious financial fraud that have brought enormous wealth to many high political economists. We know that some of the known names belonged to the middle pay grade before a good decade ago, today they are enormously rich people in Slovenia and belong to a special caste. On 6 May 2005, I asked the Ministers for Finance and Home Affairs a question requiring an answer why the state allowed fraud and damages to nearly two thirds of the Slovenians who sold the certificates to the national funds. At that time, once upon the issue of the certificates, 350 thousand tolars were worth more than ten thousand tolars. No one has informed them about the transactions that have taken place, i.e. the owners of these certificates. And today, in fact, no one wants to help these people. In order to get answers to this question, we have tried in the Slovenian National Party and we have not. Isn't that also the work of the so-called anti-corruption commission? Last but not least, we have made our questions clear in the past, even calling for extraordinary meetings. 31.5. In 2004, an extraordinary meeting was convened on the issue of corruption and customerism and money laundering in connection with government and public companies and companies in the Republic of Slovenia. I must point out that I have the outcome of the vote here, and I can read to you that from the LDS and the then United List of Social Democrats, everyone has strongly opposed this issue in order to make it clear. We, the Social Democrats and, of course, New Slovenia, have proposed this extraordinary meeting. If I limit myself to what the government is saying, it is worth stressing that it is essentially stated in the Government's assessment that such a law is actually positive in the sense that the works do not overlap, that they are actually transferred to the very mixed composition of the Commission, which is in the administration of the National Assembly, and the government has written down that it supports the transfer of powers to the Commission of the National Assembly and the composition of that Commission, since the multilateral composition ensures a balanced functioning. That's certainly true. I would like to continue by stressing what has been silenced in the past. Look, no one can deny the fact that big affairs were simply swept under the rug. If we take only the last case that we've been warned about not the last time. Madam Ambassador Majda Shirca is the President of the Slovenian Cinematography Supervisory Board. In the small-value procurement process, a company was selected for the construction of project documentation for the renovation of the Slovenian cinematheque, whose director is the husband of the respected Member. Small orders were really small, later with annexes raised and actually the same is happening with other entities, such as the Goriška Library. Mr Kos, of course, did not act on this. To return to the area, a very important area, is to buy election votes. I would like to ask myself whether Mr Kos acted when they were essentially issued by Minister Bohinc of Citizenship, who was in breach of the law. In fact, neither the Director-General of the Police was responsible nor was the Minister of State at the time. They could have claimed it was a corrupt act. Today we have cases that we are reminded of by the wider Slovenian public when they legally acquired some citizenship and during the war in Slovenia were instructors on the shooting sites in Bosnia. You know, these are relevant data and they're accurate. Of course, if we take, for example, the fact that some who in fact had to pay back money for overpaid wages do not know whether they have been returned or not, respected colleague Aurelio, I do not know whether he has returned it or not, during the mayoral period in the parish congregation. This is also a corrupt act, and no one has answered. I would also like to point out that we do not wish to refer any personal information to anyone on the so-called Kosovo Commission. However, we want more transparent, transparent and, of course, more responsible work on public finances to be introduced. Millions or thousands of billions of dollars disappear in what is called a corrupt underground, and no one is responsible. Nobody. No one really cares if this is how a transparent country is undermined. That is why we have proposed in the Slovenian National Party, I myself am a signatory to this proposal for a law, and I hope that the mind of the majority will prevail in support of it. The only purpose is not to abolish Kosovo, as some wish to present, but in fact to increase, to end the duality of the Commission's operation and to increase the transparency of the country's operations. Last time, I'd like to highlight this. You are represented on the National Election Commission by representatives of all parties. You will be able to present both the lion's and the right's critics. And it would be good to draw attention to the work of directors who are in public institutions, either left or right, or directors who are actually employed in public administration. This has never happened before. Large stories were silenced, emphasis was placed on marginal matters that did not have a great deal of reflection in the public or were one - day flies. I propose that you support the existing material and that we integrate the knowledge of those who are already participating in either the State or the National Assembly, together, and that we increase transparency in the use of public funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u15	Thank you. Comrade Willi Rezman will introduce us to the position of the DeSUS Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u16	Thank you very much for your word. My presentation of the DeSUS Group's position will be first, second, not entirely unanimous. I can tell you that our relationship is quite ambitious. While we agree that there is something to be done in this area, that it is also necessary to supplement, amend the law and those in the coalition, you know, we have also written it in the coalition contract. The Coalition Treaty states that this area needs to be regulated, but it does not specify exactly how and by what proposals. We regret, therefore, that what we have written down, the bill was not drafted by a coalition or government, because we fear that perhaps sometime later it would have been justified to say that this writing of the government's will was a by-pass option. We really don't want that. While it is our view that some things need to be defined more precisely, that it is necessary to clearly determine who he is and how to collect data, and how to then sanction irregularities. We also consider that there is no need in the first wave to agree to be able to repeat that story about foxes who, instead of hunting chickens, take care of them. We do not say that this is the only and 100 percent truth, but some such clues have already been transmitted. As this bill is now written down, it is certainly not acceptable. Not just for us, not for a lot of other people. And if he goes to this stage of acceptance, in which we are now, he will certainly be receiving a number of important proposals for amendments from different sides. I hope that at that time there will be no need again to list in a long and wide way all the packaging that has already happened and which have not only been cooked in one pot. Let it prevent the further development of such defects, such weaknesses. We are also convinced that the law is also far too extensive in the area where it regulates the first level of decision-making, i.e. the local community. It is right that, for example, there is a thorough view of how it is with mayors who have the power to sign contracts, which therefore have the possibility of any abuse. That it is more or less unnecessary, and for many saints and saints, it is unacceptable, therefore, that they fall under the same control in the same way as those who have no influence, who also have no opportunity to obtain any funds, to any special advantage. In particular, not those saints and saints who may be in opposition and positional councilors always show that they do not have the power to participate in anything, but fall under the same regime again. So in itself, this law kind of collapses. In these areas, where we are actually being rejected by those who are good, which we also need in local policy, it would be good to make a difference. Well, I have promised that, because of an ambivalent relationship, there will also be a rather brief presentation to conclude with two issues. Is a government that, in principle, favors basic guidance able to provide assurance that we can promise better control with less or the same amount of resources? And second question: How will it ensure that we have an independent body that judges in this area?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u17	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! The Slovenian Democratic Party's Group supports the proposed Act on the Incompatibilities of the performance of a public function with a profitable activity. In our view, this law deals more comprehensively and in a more appropriate way with and resolves the area of identification and action in the event of the incompatibilities found in the performance of the function with a gainful activity. Contrary to the current anti-corruption law, the proposed law also contains measures to prevent corruption and to address the causes of corruption, which we believe is a step forward in terms of the current regime. We also believe that it is not really necessary to have as many as two committees, as is regulated now that we have a commission on the one hand to prevent corruption and on the other hand a commission of the National Assembly. It's an unnecessary duplication of work and jurisdiction. It is therefore more appropriate, in our view, that we have only one committee, a committee whose composition is determined by the National Assembly. In doing so, it is important that the proposed law provides for a multi-party composition of the Commission, with the predominant role of the opposition, which has the majority and the president of this commission, as well. This will make the work of the Commission more transparent than it has been so far, as the representatives of the parliamentary parties will have a direct view of the data that the Commission will obtain in its work and will also directly participate in the work of the Commission itself. Following the current regulation, the Commission of the National Assembly had control over the work of the Anti-Corruption Commission, but this supervisory function was only indirect and dependent on whether, and how and how such indirect control would be allowed and thus also effective, given that, in this case, the anti-corruption commission itself has, in its hands, an anti-corruption commission, which is not represented in such a way as to ensure that individual parties have the possibility of directly appointing their qualified representatives. Therefore, in our view, the proposed law, as I have already mentioned, represents a step forward in ensuring more effective supervision in the field of the functioning of public officials whose public work must be supervised. The provisions of the law that we are considering today not only allow us to identify the possible incompatibility of public function and gainful activities, but also allow for appropriate action in the face of identified irregularities. In its opinion, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia found some shortcomings in the text of the proposed law. We have also heard a government representative talk about this in the introduction. These imperfections or shortcomings would suggest that the text be amended or supplemented. The Group agrees with the Government's proposals and expects the proposed solutions offered by the Government to be amended or supplemented by the law at a further stage of adoption in this regard. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we will support the Act on the Incompatibilities of the performance of a public function with a profit-making activity at this stage and expect to continue the process of appropriate amendment of the legislative text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u18	Thank you. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members and we are moving on to the debate of Members and Members. The first one has the word of a colleague, Miran Potch. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues. Without much hope of convincing anyone, I would like to say that I think it would be right to discuss the content of the proposed law, the law that we are repealing, if adopted today, and then in the next stages of a definitive decision on the objectives of the individual law and on the consequences. Today you speak as though you do not know the existing law and law that is proposed. I don't believe that's true, so I'm saying that as much deception, lies, hypocrisy as I've heard today, a man can't hear blindly. And because people do not know what we are talking about, it really seems that the proposed law by the Slovenian National Party will address the issue of corruption or prevent corruption better than is regulated by this existing law. I am discussing the fact that the existing law is not ideal, and I immediately accept it. And I also accept the government's warnings that there should be a lot of complementing. However, I do not accept the logic, since the law rules something imperfect, the provisions governing it must be completely deleted. The existing law, the shortest thing to say, because you know, I speak for the public, you know that, you're just making a big mistake, the existing law has two sets of questions. One group of issues concerns Members and other officials. Incompatibilities in the performance of the function, prohibition of receiving gifts, reporting and control of assets. It also has an existing law. The law proposed by the Slovenian National Party deals in the future only this issue, nothing else, only this issue, roughly the same as they only acknowledge that more or less have been summarised under the provisions of 1992 than we have had for 12 years and 12 years have found that it does not have any serious effects. There was no case that this commission would have led to a position in the 12 years to even report the property if it hadn't reported it. He just didn't report it, and she warned him several times and didn't report it. Since neither the fine imposed by the Anti-Corruption Act had a 1992 law. And the Slovenian national party that advocates visibility does not even propose this sanction in the new law. Thus, even in a work that deals directly with the issue of officials only, the law is less transparent than the law in force. However, he is missing the second part that we have talked about in the past hour and hour and night about what to do in order to organise the activities of an independent commission that would prevent the possibility of corruption and clientism under the assumption that this danger always exists and in every society. We have decided that we must talk about this and that we must also adopt appropriate legal provisions. We've got them. The Commission started operating in September. There's no duplication between the boards. The only thing that, the National Assembly Commission, is made up in the same way as is now proposed is the right to control the commission by law. But this commission by law has many other functions that we miss out on the proposal of the Slovenian National Party. We're dropping them. They're gone. And if we let them go, then don't say you want more control and prevention of clientelism and corruption. You don't want that. You're making this impossible, because now at least there was a minimum chance we could do it. But if it's not arranged enough, why don't we fix it, why stop it? I don't know if the current government, whose representatives are not here, can believe that only because it is new, because it is headed by President Janša, is no longer in danger that not only members of the government, but also state secretaries, including other ministerial officials, would be in danger of committing any corruption. I don't know why. If no one is immune, probably this new government isn't immune either. The government hopes to write that no further action should be taken by this commission, because the government will do better by its own action to address the issue of anti-corruption. I have to say, I had a little laugh, and I kind of freaked out when I read it. As it writes, the preparation of a anti-corruption strategy should be under the authority of a government that formulates all policies in all areas relevant to the prevention of corruption. Then the government says the Commission has no jurisdiction. Okay. She doesn't have enough. We discussed this seriously when we adopted the law: Should we adopt the concept of a commission that also has investigative and direct operational powers or not? And we have found that there are some such cases in Europe, most of them not. At that time, we said that we would trust the police, the prosecution, the judiciary, the inspection and other authorities whose task it is to do so. The Commission, however, is the one that organises the activity, as we organise anti-corruption activities in every state institution in a timely manner, monitors how this prevention is taking place. Once it has received the necessary information, the same operational bodies already in charge shall inform and entrust them with further action. Maybe that's not enough. Just, gentlemen of the coalition and the government, I will not talk about the Slovenian National Party, then suggest that the powers of the Commission change and increase. But don't say we don't need it anymore. Or you're lying to yourself, but you don't know what this is about, and I'm afraid that you're getting fat and that actually out of the desire to prevent corruption, we're now reducing this field of our joint action. Either because of the composition and the chairman of the commission or not, I don't know. Certainly, however, from the public statements made by the current Prime Minister and others, including this. If it is necessary, because the law is written in a way that can only be solved for false reasons, not to list, to change the whole law, then we must say that I am afraid. The fear that political compatibility is becoming the basis for amending all laws in order to ensure adequate staffing, not only in the field of the economy, but also in the field of education and the culture of public media and public enterprises, now finally in all other areas. However, we have already adopted a law in the administration. For this reason, I believe that the government, once again, is not sorry because it is not interested, and that the ruling coalition should consider whether it is really accepting a completely toothless and even more than a toothless law that is now proposed. This law is complemented by a way to make anti-corruption activity more operational. You can't take him. Because that's the function he's abolishing. And I ask you to at least recognise this and know that you want to end the independent and independent commission because this commission prevents corruption and you want to establish only a state-level committee in which Members will supervise each other, as we have done for 12 years and have done nothing. You're even eliminating the possibility of monetary sanctions if someone doesn't register property and now you're wondering how terrible it is if someone has to go to the land book. I hope that the land-book statement is also at home and that the Commission will report its assets. I think it's sad, it's extremely sad, to what extent we've put this debate down. And I won't forget that I wouldn't remain unspoken. Look at the untruths Mr. Friend expressed from this microphone. You said Mr Bohinc gave his citizenship. You know it's not true that there was no talking about it at all. Indeed, on the basis of the decision of the Constitutional Court, some have issued a decision to grant them permanent residence. You know that the difference between permanent residence and citizenship is very big and stop faking things and play demagogy where things are obvious. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u20	It's a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u21	Mr President, thank you. That's all I want to point out. The wider Slovenian public then warned the minister that this is in fact just voice buying and I think that you have done only bear service to yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u22	We continue the debate. I don't know what you understand, but you'll have to check it out on your own. We continue with the debate, the session is written by colleague Jakob Preseknik. [[He's not here.]] My colleague, Bojan Kontic, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u23	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representative of the government. It is a very interesting assessment by the bill's proponents, which effectively repeals the anti-corruption commission, that the Commission is not doing well and that there are no results. It is too short a period for us to assess the effectiveness of this commission, but it has certainly achieved, with its work so far, that corruption, including corruption, talks and individual activities become undesirable or at least disruptive. The ruling coalition has taken some of its assets by reading them out as inactive. Of course, changes are desirable, but in order to strengthen the Commission financially and human resources, I am not talking about powers. At the same time, the proponents advocate a system of self-monitoring. I have been in this Slovenian Parliament for quite some time, but I do not know what special achievements of the parliamentary commission, except, of course, those who have once again warned that some of them have been bound by the law have not yet submitted a report on the property situation. And that's all. And the system by which the supervisor and the supervised person are the same person, at least for me personally, is not acceptable. The amendment of this law is certainly a clear manoeuvre when it hides itself behind the so-called opposition party, or government coalition, and adopts a law that prevents control of its political, economic elite. It is best that you submit and accept the amendment following the hearing, whereby you determine that the anti-corruption commission works only when you are in opposition. But when you take possession of the executive branch of power, the commission is at rest. In the year when you "jumped" power, you have repeatedly stressed that the greatest threat of corruption is the long-standing rule of certain political options. The authorities have changed, there is no more corruption, we don't need a commission. Of course, this is not true, and the Commission is still in need. Also an interesting position of the government: the law needs to ease the requirements for local officials. Control at local level is of the utmost importance. I am aware of the case when the mayor of the Commission referred to the question of the possible incompatibility of the exercise of a public function with a profitable activity. He hasn't answered yet. This is the case when a member of the municipal council, the president of one of the government parties and the president of the local community, worked as an entrepreneur for the same contracting authority, the local community to which the world is headed. I am confident that the story will receive its epilogue, of course if you do not suspend the commission before this, in a way that the individual provisions of the coalition contract will be implemented on behalf of the coalition by the so-called opposition party.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u24	Thank you. We continue the debate. My colleague, Davorin Terchón, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u25	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The first thing that becomes clear in this law is the fact that the Slovenian National Party, as a signatory to this law, would be very difficult to include in an opposition party because it is obviously very serviceable to the ruling coalition and also carries out some business, I would say, which they themselves do not wish to do. Thus was the adoption of the law on RTV, where due to a better impression they voted against, but remained in the Chamber so that you could adopt and allow such a law, even though they were against. They didn't want to come from the gym. Very prosaic. Thus, in the promise of the Prime Minister, how much will he take into account the opposition in the supervisory councils where the State owns and other supervisory authorities, because it also takes into account the opposition, so that they are jointly agreed with the National Party and give the most important functions to representatives of the Slovenian National Party. This is so when it comes to defaming the representatives of the opposition, especially the LDS and the SNS, which, of course, we are not all with aureoles and holy and pure, for example. Let us say that after so many years of rule, we do not claim to be all - powerful, like some others. Obviously, they have also forgotten the difficult words of the past, and I will not even repeat them because they are truly difficult leaders of the Slovenian National Party and the principles are not valid if they have been said. I don't know how the procedure went then.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u26	Comrade Davorin Terchón, please, if you will stick to the content of the proposed law. Yours and your client's injuries and leave your problems to the side. I believe there will be plenty of opportunities for you to take them out. Whether justified or not, but please stick to the agenda item, this is a proposal for a law on the incompatibilities of performing a public function with a profitable activity. I believe that you and your fellow Members have read the law, so please stick to the content of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u27	Mr. Chairman! Please give me back some time because you spent it. Secondly, since you have spoken, leave your traumas alone, not mine, because they are not my traumas. It's just an explanation, an introduction to what I'm going to say about the content of the law. And please don't traumatize, because I'm not traumatizing anything. Thank you very much. This is all forgotten now. The principles are no longer so important. Of course, power is sweet, and something needs to be arranged on behalf of interest. So much for the intro. As far as the law is concerned, I would say that one sad fact is that the system we have set up to fight corruption, including the hostage of some accusations, perhaps even some vengefulness between the top of the government, personal resentment, between the top of the government and the top of this corruption commission. I don't think some systems that are needed in the country should be based on some personal offenses. That's not good. As far as our system of fighting corruption and the law of itself is concerned, I must conclude that I also regard it as quite pure. There are relatively many things prohibited, a lot of ballast is imposed on the basis of this law. It's got to be a fair confession. And here I would like to draw on some of the statements that you have made in the debates by the applicants and the rest of them. The fact is, something that we consider to be corrupt is not corrupt in another country. And what is forbidden in our country is allowed in another country. Even for the highest representatives of the people who can do profit activity elsewhere, we don't. We have made this system quite purely, even though we all find that this corruption may still be running away where we do not even notice it. As far as this is concerned, I would like to draw attention to the need for some changes to the law. I'd agree with you. I would say, above all, that changes are needed with regard to the circle of debtors. I see no significant point in saying that one saint of a small congregation who receives 100, 200 thousand, 300 thousand net revenues in the whole year [[...]] Yes, Chairman, please, if you'll calm your colleague down now, because I have a problem. If you've bothered me before. This circle of pledges is certainly too wide. I agree, so it would be worth considering that these thousands of reports, which are relatively complicated, do not rumble on this committee, do not review them, because of the low amounts they have and that this is so tight. I think that's perfectly appropriate. After all, these few hundred missing from the report are more or less from local communities, I could say even from smaller municipalities in the majority and this is very impractical, this is unnecessary bureaucracy and needs to be changed. I'm totally attracted to you here. Maybe there should be another one, some important situation, I don't know, in sensitive services like the police, etc., which is now forgotten. But there's a large circle of commitments that I don't think is necessary inside, so we could cut them out of this law because it's too bureaucratic and eventually waste time and resources. Secondly, what I think would make sense in the law would be some of the competences of the Commission or of some other body in the enforcement of sanctions, which are provided for in the law, but which is not an enforceable title, there is no obligation to do so. And that's a flaw. For example, we now have a few hundred, as we said, of those who did not report at all. The Commission’s proposals to the congregations, mostly the congregations, will now be roused to lower their wages. The question is, "What if they don't lower their wages?" Nothing. So, that would make sense to fix it. [[...]] And then, when the down payment is paid to them, whether they get down or not, there are also proposals for relief. And, of course, the question is whether they will be municipal saints, who will solve them. These provisions of the law have proved inadequate, inadequate and would suggest that this should be corrected. With such changes, it would be advisable to come to the National Assembly and correct this in order for the Commission to become more operational for the first time and on the other hand, in order to reduce red tape and less reporting after unnecessary, which is now practical. What's most controversial about marriage is the termination of the commission itself. That seems totally controversial to me, and I am absolutely opposed to that. The Commission is set up according to some comparable democratic European standards as an independent body overseeing officials. If this committee were to be abolished and transferred to the committee we have in Parliament, for the first time, we would return to a system that was once in existence and, on the other hand, Members would be monitoring all officials and eventually monitoring themselves, which is unacceptable. So I find this completely unacceptable and it is one big step back. In the end, I'd like to give my opinion. I'm a member of this committee in Parliament. I don't want to control you guys, I'm not gonna control you guys. I'll step out of this commission, and if such a committee gets that authority, let another one go. While the government says in its opinion that this committee must be abolished and that it must be transposed to the national constituency, I suppose it would remain the opposition's dominant power in this committee. Of course, I wonder what this dominant power of opposition will be. Such as it is now that the opposition proposes a law that is of the will of the government. This will not be any dominant power of the opposition. And like I said, I don't even want to be involved in this sort of thing or control. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u28	We continue the debate. The following was reported by a fellow Christian Janc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u29	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! And I also welcome Mr. Kos on the balcony! The proposal for a law on the incompatibilities of public office management with the profitable activity that we have here today at the hearing and proposed by colleagues from the Slovenian National Party seems a little interesting to me that the government has not proposed it, as usual, all these laws are proposed. Well, it doesn't even matter that much. It is important, however, that the law on the prevention of corruption, which we have, and also this commission, which we have, and which has experienced quite a number of such and other attacks in recent months, is also, in my opinion, quite inadequate, flawed and would urgently need some corrections in order to achieve better results. If you will remember, my fellow Members, I have proposed the month of February right here in the National Assembly, to the Minister of State, a very clear question, which was so far removed at the time. That's all O. K. It was for officials, municipal councillors. I have clearly warned the government or the minister that it is not acceptable for a municipal councilor to be in the category of President of the State, Government, Member of Parliament, etc. The councilman who holds a meeting of 15,000 a month, perhaps eight meetings, belongs in the same category. I'm sorry, it was nothing. Rejected, that's all right, O. K., that's consistent, we're not gonna fix this. We have found, in recent months, weeks that many municipal saints, officials, have resigned from our municipal councils, especially those who have been excellent, constructive, from practice, from life. This has made the municipality's councillors poorer in Slovenia. Of course, that was not good, and now we are witnessing that at one time we would change it, fix it, go into a new marriage, and somehow round things up. I am pleased, however, that after a few months, the government has come to know and believes that restrictions should be eased for officials at local level in such a way that employment with budgetary users or persons of public law at national level does not apply. I am pleased that this has come to be a step made here, we would soften this story, get it out of context, because one saint in Metlika, I do not know what impact it has on some state budget, municipality in Maribor or in Jesenica or elsewhere. I think it's pure stupidity and, of course, it's worth fixing if it can be fixed as soon as possible, because otherwise we're gonna lose good, quality shots. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] in Slovenia, which are of course here. [[..]] The other is what it is. The new elections will be and, of course, impoverished, I would say, preparing for the new councils will be so much bigger and, of course, I only hope and believe that this will happen as soon as possible. As far as this new bill of law is concerned, we are repeating the same story again. Article 2 reads again "functioners of self-government local communities", whether it is now the mayors, the mayors, the municipalities, all together, that the proposaler probably did not take into account and I believe that in this debate, if he receives this proposal of law, the appropriate support given in the National Assembly could fully address a number of things. One of these is definitely the one that "falls out" to me the most, and I think it's the most preposterous thing I've just said. However, I believe that if we are to receive this support today, of course, the parties here are quite divided and I am still a bit skeptical about this matter, but I believe that we must take a step forward to make a positive move in terms of this non-combination and, above all, one greater efficiency, which so far, let us be honest, the right one, has not been enough, more or less just a paper war, and unfortunately there have been no concrete effects. Whether this law will do so or not, I find it difficult to judge. However, I believe that it is likely that one step forward will have to be taken. However, I think that the Commission, which is now what it is to do in accordance with the law according to my assessment, is doing. I think he's doing his job pretty well, of course, probably not for all of us and for all of those expectations, but not enough success. I hope that, during today's debate and then through the second hearing, we will get one truly optimal version of this bill, that the government, which considers this proposal not so bad, is even fit with some corrections, that we will find a suitable solution to this proposal together, which will be suitable for all, and I hope that even for colleagues in the opposition, because it is right to approach their own conclusions, which I think are also quite appropriate to sit in this new bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u30	Thank you. The word has been given by Ambassador Maja Potrat.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u31	Dear colleagues and colleagues! I do not believe that it was a lapsus when the past was used, when the relationship between the anti-corruption commission and the State Election Commission was discussed, because sparrows on the roof are already sizzling that Kosovo will be abolished by the commission. I should therefore not be surprised by the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on a proposal for a law that only confirms or affirms that the bill before it is a bill to read: "The Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not oppose the law, because it considers the law to be conceptually appropriate." It's just confirmed that the government knows exactly why the coalition with it is why the blacksmith has pliers. In this case, the pliers themselves have acknowledged if I am reading an explanation of the law that they have actually only copied the 1992 law or perhaps any article in the existing anti-corruption law. The greatest achievement of this law, which is intended to be significantly better than the current one, is to be concealed in Articles 15, 16, 17, 18 and 19, where only in addition to the designated body to which a person is addressed, is to be appointed as the body that elected the official, the addressee of the notice. Of course, the real core is supposed to be in article 23, where the law's investors say, "and this law provides for sanctions for all possible infringements". As a Slovenian, I'm always very careful when someone uses total pronouns. In its opinion, too, the government was a bit egregious when it stated in point 11 that the statement, which referred to the offence of the responsible legal person, probably failed. Of course, I have a legitimate question why, in this case too, the government has found to, at this time, a very well-established practice of making short-term laws where it does not seem to be in conformity with the legislation adopted. For I believe that the law in force could change the same, reduced procedure, but probably did not want to do what the pliers did in Article 24, i.e. that they proposed the abolition of the anti-corruption commission. This is all the more surprising to me because, in the previous term, when it came to both the anti-corruption law and the resolution on anti-corruption in the Republic of Slovenia, it is possible to hear much from the opposition's mouth, but in a magnetogram, on 26 May 2004, the Committee on the National Assembly's Internal Policy, however, it is possible to take the confession of one of the members of the opposition at that time that the law on anti-corruption has supported the opposition. And I recall well that while the opposition had a lot of comments about the formation of the law, many comments were taken into account by the opposition in the law, and indeed they were not all of them. And now it would be a time for the coalition to change what it would suggest in the law in force to do so. But apparently the principle of political compatibility has proclaimed everything that has brought the current coalition into power. Talking about how corruption has grown over and over. But I'm sorry. In all my performances in the previous term, when there was a talk on corruption, I stressed that I agree to the principle of zero tolerance for corruption. That is why I cannot understand the Government and its position, but perhaps today there are no those who have formed this position to adopt this position, so that it is in favour of the proposed law, which in fact brings back to life what the law in force provides. So don't be surprised. It's a step back for me, and I won't support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u32	A colleague of Bosniak Zagorac has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u33	Thank you for your word, chairman. Your Honors are here! We are against commissioning in the Slovenian National Party. The fact is that the Commission is set up at the time and only in the current practice of running that country in order to conceal certain facts. This was the practice of the former government, and we all got used to it. As for the apolitical activity mentioned in the speech of the current so-called Kosovo Commission, I must say that I am concerned to note that, since the bill came forward or was tabled, Mr President of this Commission has convened countless press conferences against this law, has lobbied at various ends and places where it has only been against this law. So much for the apolitical nature of the current commission. As far as the perceptions of the indemnity of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group are concerned, I must correct some of the negotiators, particularly the party's provoctors, who made up a 12-year ruling coalition. I have before me an article from one of the Slovenian weeks where special anti-corruption legislation is not required. This government statement was presented at today's press conference by Tone Rop. Today, being the person who advocates the most against corruption in this country and telling someone that he has changed his principles, I think it is also appropriate to say that you do not judge people by yourself. That's exactly what happened before. Full mouth against corruption and then no anti-corruption legislation is necessary. And in addition to a reminder of corruption in your time, during your rule, and of the exploration of this corruption and of the unnecessary need for legislation, of the solution to the problem of corruption. The Secretary-General of the Red Cross has even run for office at the state-run elections on the list of the United Nations. Elan, none of the defendants have ever been legally punished. NLB Sigma, the Fund for the Construction of a New Paediatric Clinic, revealed MAG, not government, MAG. Viator-Vector, revealed the Week of Youth, not the then government. SIB, Orion, alert POP TV to the affair. Falcone, the affair has been unleashed by the Diary of Delo. Zbilijski gaj, insurance company Triglav, the bankruptcy managers affair, Pompe company and some more of them could be listed, except that we don't waste time. Gentlemen, first sweep ahead of your threshold, then read out the indiscretion to someone else and not just change because you are fortunately with us, the Slovenian National Party, in the opposition, today to talk about the fact that anti-corruption struggle is only on your back and on your shoulders and that you are the only one who stands up for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u34	Thank you. I give my word to my colleague Joseph Jerovska. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u35	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues! Today's consideration of the proposal for a law on the incompatibilities of performing a public function with a profitable activity is a good opportunity to shake opinions on the fight against corruption. We probably all agree that this fight against corruption has so far not produced real fruits, but that the fight against corruption and organised action against corruption in this country are urgently needed. I have always advocated that mechanisms to combat corruption in this country should be improved. Through the Commission, which I led in the previous term, we have also obtained information from the Intelligence Supervisory Commission that the former authority of these state agencies, which also operate abroad, which oversees what is being done from abroad against us, which companies are trying to take over with suspicious capital of our companies. The former authorities have never required information on who is behind the question of what suspicious capital, what broken buyers, and so on. Despite the fact that there were people on this anti-corruption committee in the criminal service at the time. This shows contamination with politics, some, I will not say all, some members of the anti-corruption commission. For this reason, it is funny to get representatives from two opposition parties today to refer to this committee as an apolitical independent commission. Unfortunately, in the current opposition, we stated that the initial proposal of the law at that time was to mislead the public, absolutely, and that it was essentially to set up a commission to cover up corruption, not to expose and fight corruption, but to conceal corruption, which took place in the authorities and levels of power, as always. I will not say from this city that today is no more necessary fight against corruption than it has been in the past. Any power can go bad and go bad. As a result, I am particularly interested in the improvement of the situation in Slovenia. Even today, many vultures are creeping into the sphere of power, changing political color, some knowingly sent to join the current authorities out of a completely scavenger hunt. I'm sorry. I do not challenge the professional references of people who are engaged today or who are appointed officials. However, once again, I say that this commission has been appointed independent or apolitical, it is impossible because these cases of political resolution or political involvement are huge. If we go back a little bit, of course we don't. I remember, for example, the time of the Drnovsk government when Marjan Podobnik was Vice-President. I don't know exactly what the matter was, but the cousin of the current chairman of this commission organized an inquiry into the vice-president's table at the moment, saying that he shouldn't - which then turned out to be completely unsustainable, inappropriate. However, because she had ties with the current criminal service or with the current president, criminals had at the moment arrived to investigate the vice-president of the government. For many other cases, however, this was not the case. This makes it impossible to state in this case that it is a politically uncontaminated commission, in order to politically shake matters, it was set up last year - to do selection. And I don't think she managed to get out of it. Last week or fourteen days ago, I read in Mago about impossible awards for some advice to Mr Krlič from Petrol and many others. Hundreds of millions are fictional! I have nowhere to see anyone involved in this - because it is the dedicated people associated with the centres of power of the former government, who are still in control of Slovenia today. And this is where hundreds of millions go! I expected that if the real opposition were to fly half the questions sent to the Prime Minister, even though it had nothing to do with it. But no one asked in this matter! As far as I know, the Hellard issue is not resolved, although no one can say that it is not connected to public officials in the previous regime. Absolutely. And, see, I also see how the current commission has done - here in the Official Journal is a set of companies that are not allowed to operate through public contracts, and I see that Socius is not in at all. Secondly, what I see is that the Key Society should not only operate with the Commission, because of its related ties, but not with other public and state institutions. As a result, it does not strike me as strange - if I have accurate data - in the previous year, three times after 9 million subsidies passed the tenders. Here you can see too clearly the links, the political instrumentalisation of certain things and so on. I agree that it may not be the law itself, but today this debate is an opportunity to put things on a substantial better basis by changing the law or by changing the new law, with which it will be possible to fight substantially better or to fight corruption. And actually get rid of this political contaminating of the fight against corruption. However, I feel that the current opposition is not interested in this. It is logical that in the next two, three years, each anti-corruption commission will detect 90 % corruption in the authorities relating to the former authorities. And, of course, your political interest cannot be that it will reveal what they have done. Nevertheless, I am pleased that Mrs Beblereva has found today that the 10 million gifts are for officials, state officials, but she did not mention when the Commission, which she was dealing with with with the 10 million-dollar gift. Now you realize that they are, I agree that such gifts have been flown. They're absolutely bigger. But you didn't reveal one case when you had all the options. Then readiness is a political will to fight corruption. I do not see her through that you oppose the law on RTV in order to transfer parliamentary sessions. This is specifically aimed at fighting corruption. I have mentioned many times here, I have been at a conference with Jakic in Canada of the GOPAC Parliamentary Institution, a government anti-corruption organisation that has adopted conclusions that the best fight against corruption is the direct transposition of Parliament's meetings. Members of the Parliament should be most encouraged by their provocation. But you're not on your previous term, and you're not! You are against the fight against corruption. Excuse me, you're making it clear that you believe that you are now significantly more protected than you are with this, or those who have acted corruptly also through the levers of the previous government. While this does not apply to the executive and legislative authorities at present, I honestly believe that I have the right to express my opinion: there is no willingness in this country, still constantly, on some institutions, at some levels. Even by preventing the supervision proposed by the Minister under law in the case of the Murski Sobota trial, when it is so incomprehensible and by delaying the trial of the perpetrators of the attack on now Member Petka, who fought corruption with his articles. Nor do I see a willingness, in this country, to fight corruption. That the Council of Justice authorized absolute inviolability as to the manner of trial, the speed of trial. This judicial review was not intended to influence or interfere with what the verdict would be, but whether the proceedings in the court are conducted on an expedient basis or not. This is an extremely symbolic negative action, a negative message against the fight against corruption. And first of all, we could get into this political shoot-out -- you know, the ones that would fight the most. And they don't vote, there's no willingness. During the previous term, even at the time the current chairman of this commission was a purely top criminalist at the summit, the department for combating economic crime and the crime of white collars at the criminal service was virtually abolished. Yeah, how's that sounding? At the time when he had the reins of power, he was completely decomposed, while at the same time dealing with political matters, political supervision of journalists past orders, etc. We know that this would be so sad. Then the former authorities had no happy hand and consciously did not have it. [[...]] And allow us to question such politicization or the political dependence of the commission. Now it is not those officials who are there who are guilty of not being able to act. But the fact is, they're politically bound, so they couldn't work. And I think it's wise that we finally do this politically independent. I am convinced that if we do not have a good recipe or a binding recipe, the National Assembly is politically more independent. She's political, but she's balanced. Because it comes from all the parties because people change here every four years because it goes to elections and people have influence. It is not politically independent in the sense that people are not politically defined there, only because there are representatives of all parties, are all aspects of political space, everyone has an interest in controlling others. And let us strengthen this commission in my opinion, professionally back it up and you will see that it will work much better. It is true that this commission did not have these political - through the presidency of the instructions - the predecessor of the previous mandate, I would say - political will in the parties, as the presidents did. We know the case of Sandi Česko - protected, never submitted, but we know in which political group, through which things he has enriched and so on. And in fact, my predecessor was referring to some corruption of affairs. The fact is, in this country, they have discovered or revealed many more research journalists who are constantly being chased under their feet or tried to kill themselves, as was the case with the case of Friday. However, it was an opportunity for the state authorities to resolve the Red Cross affair in the previous term. It's not! Everything is so - hand-washed - finished, gentlemen are honored other officials, invited to state celebrations, so washed through the prosecutions and so on. Nevertheless, that Rolling Director on the stage - I have a colleague who I think still enjoys the money from that, is being financed from that, sitting in the club, in the Pen Club. There was a prominent representative of the time when it was written that 400 million had gone through it - it had disappeared. I think they still have money to produce the impossible things that are then published and attacked, but they are declared intellectuals politically independent and so on. But they match people with the most impossible and unacceptable. They obviously have money so that they can sit down every week and get their revenge. [[...]] And that money comes from very strange sources, in my opinion. Here I publicly call on my fellow schoolboy to stand back from this because I once saw him sitting with those people. Because of this kind of money, 500 million disappeared through one sitting there next to him, and I find it embarrassing to produce those things. Who sees what the political purpose is and what these people were washed up for before the prosecutions and so on. This was all politically motivated. Not now to throw away the obvious that this is about political motivation. Such a way of working these things must be cut off, improved. I think that this law needs improvements, significant improvements in order to make this fight against corruption, to rationalise it so that it can work. And now, at the beginning of the new mandate, a new authority is an opportunity to do so, because if it were later, every authority is already wet in some way and will not act consciously against itself. Although there are people who want to work, but these vultures are crawling all over the place. I also urge you to stop sending vultures who were strong in the former authorities to the realm of the present authority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u36	Thanks for the debate. The following among the applicants is colleague Weber. [[He's not here.]] Excuse me? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u37	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear colleague Jerovšek! I put it this way: "Through the commitment to register property status, according to the bill is narrower than under the law in force. That's how those people who were the most talked about would turn out to be. These are directors of public institutions and funds and associated persons. All officials will be able to practically accept gifts of any value. However, if anyone finds that they have accepted an illicit gift, they will be charged with a fine of up to 150,000 tolar, which is a ridiculously low penalty compared to a gift that may also be worth 10 million tolars or more." I was talking, Mr Jerovšek, about the hypothetical situation. If you're overturning [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u38	Comrade Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u39	My words are not nice. [[...]] However, if you do not understand what I have said, you do not have to preach this out loud here in the Chamber and through the parliamentary microphone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u40	Comrade Jerovšek, the replica on the replica is given as a rule if the chairman so assesses. And at this point, I didn't see it that way, so you don't have a word for it. We continue the debate. Ambassador Maja Shirtz, please. You're giving up?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u41	I'm not canceling. It's been reported that I'm performing later.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u42	This is very interesting, but it is okay to send this message to the president next time.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u43	Wasn't it given? If it hasn't been given, I can perform now.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u44	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u45	[[...]] [[Talking to each other.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u46	Mrs. Shirca, you have the floor. Are you going to speak under the law or not?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u47	I'm asking if a message was given by [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u48	I told you it wasn't given.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u49	Professional services to perform later? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u50	I told you, I don't want to debate this. Are you going to talk about the content of the law or not?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u51	You didn't answer me. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u52	No, no, no.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u53	If it was given, then it's okay, I'll do it later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u54	If you get the word, a colleague of mine has Breda Pecan. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u55	First of all, I'd like to say thank you so much for saying that. Mr President, it is not clear to me exactly what kind of order is now, because here it is written quite differently, but well, you have assessed how things should run and will only run according to God's will and the will of the chairman of the national assembly. I would like to say only one point of origin, namely, that this law explicitly speaks of the success of the elections being achieved, that the issue of corruption is now exceeded and unnecessary, and that the Commission established by the Anti-Corruption Law must therefore be abolished. And it is unusual that the government, which replaces important managers and political officials on the current tape, felt it necessary to leave the work, the replacement or termination of the commission to someone else. In this case, the SNS Group, which, even today, when the bill proposed by the Group of Members is being examined - I think it is very unusual - is being held by a member of this Group. I don't think that's hygienic at all. The second thing I would like to say, however, is that regardless of what we would like to say publicly with this law, I do not agree that the subject of corruption, clientism and other negative social phenomena in Slovenia are over. I will not say that after the old Slovenian proverb that when some pigs are fed at the trough, the other hungry ones come along, of course, the trough is empty at the moment. But the other thing is. The point is that this law deals with and deals only with political officials and does not cover the circle of control or prevention of corruption of a number of public officials, officials who are still exposed to corruption: either by encouraging them themselves or by encouraging them to do so. I believe that the integrity plan envisaged by the Anti-Corruption Act, which has also been launched by the anti-corruption commission, is also being extended to individual institutions or public bodies, including the municipalities, only in fact provides for prevention in this area. I think it's hard to recover or prevent corruption from curating. Corruption must be prevented at the point of origin where corruption is possible. It is said everywhere where there is a flow of goods, services between persons of public law and individuals of private law. There is possible corruption and this is happening not only at the level of the national assembly, ministers and those state secretaries, as many as are left now, but also not only in the field of justice, but also in the area of all those public services where there is any exchange, as I have said, of goods and services. For this reason, I believe that repealing the anti-corruption law is the worst possible move that this government has ever made. I must say that it is logical to look for a point where corruption in the public sector can arise. It makes sense. And that is why, as a result, when we track corruption, of course, it is also necessary to cut into the private sector so that criminal policy can do its job where corruption was present or where it originated. And that is why I cannot agree with colleagues who today have not mentioned the specific cases and called them corruption, but it is not corruption at all. It was an economic crime. That's a big difference. And for that, I suggest that when we talk about A, we talk about A all the time, not Z. Because the debates I'm hearing in this National Assembly are constantly firing at you. But I think the biggest and loudest shot is actually past this bill. Inadequate, non-solid and, above all, deliberately, it appears to be focused on allowing attention to be diverted somewhere else. Not that all kinds of potential corruption in the public sector remain overlooked, which could be prevented by integrity plans, which, of course, should be quality and consistently prepared, can also be prevented. I think it's important to stop, not heal. And because of this, of course, I will not support in any way the decision or the opinion that this law is suitable for further consideration, because it seems to me that it would be wise to withdraw it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u56	Thank you. In explanation, given the evidence of the holding of the meeting, I must inform Members and Members of Parliament that we are all starting from the same base, i.e. the list of discussers. Later, you Members and Members, some individually, report for this stage, want to have a changed order. You tell that to me, not to the others, which is why we don't have the same schedule later. Some Members do this, unfortunately, from the bench and suggest, which is of course sometimes very difficult to understand. Third Members, do this through your professional colleagues. My performance has been solely in the information to you that my list of discussers is not the same as yours. And that my current list is where your current wishes are taken into account. That's why he's going to keep my list up to date. We're moving on. The word is from a colleague of the school.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u57	Thank you very much. The DeSUS Group has delivered an opinion which I share that it is a great shame that the law governing the necessary changes to this mother has not been proposed by the Government. This is indeed a shame, but the question is, of course, whether it is true. This question cannot be answered precisely, but the fact is that part of the solution to the government was proposed by the Slovenian National Party. You can't just shut your eyes before that. Why so, again, is a question that cannot be answered with certainty to the end, but we can conclude from, I will say, many other things that are likely to be so. Even if it turns out that it will not actually be possible to complete it, it is interesting that the government actually supports all the key provisions of this law. So far, something similar has not happened, but it is important to know, because obviously there is some embarrassment when we talk about the issues of the incompatibility of public functions and the control mechanisms associated with this. The law is essentially directed at a concrete commission, and I think it is also against a specific president, who has not been fully operational since 1.9.2005, that is to say, not a year. But why do I say that the law is directed against this commission and against this man, because it will eventually show that, either by objective circumstances or on the grounds of the amended law, it may happen that the President and the other members as well as one, I will say, withdraw their will and pledge to participate in this weary mother. It is necessary to know that these people have sworn before this National Assembly in a rather small way, but before this National Assembly and this oath should be in some way, if you want to hear, holy to the people who sit here and the oaths that are issued here are to some extent necessary inviolability. Apparently with the enforcement mechanism, by reducing funds, bullying, etc. The withdrawal of a specific commission cannot be achieved, so it is necessary to achieve the legal disassembly of the institution. The second thing to say is that the vast majority of the cases that we heard about in this Chamber today are at a time when the issue of incompatibility was controlled by the National Assembly Commission, in the last term I think it was led by Mr Vnučec, I do not remember exactly who. As it is said, this commission has been operating since 1.9. last year. So it would be logical to conclude that the opposition that had this control mechanism in hand at the time, all the machinations that were here, would also reveal and lead to the end. I'm aware that I can be somewhat cynical, but this is the logic of the argument that colleagues from the current ruling coalition and, I'll say, the satellites are using. So all those things that were problematic could have been solved because it was in the hands of the opposition. They weren't. Of course, I do not claim that this commission did not carry out its work in the previous reference and in the previous reference, but had insufficient powers. She couldn't even reach all the areas we talked about today. Why am I saying this? Because there is a lot of confusion by colleagues who use a wide variety of names and situations to try to dismantle an institution that has practically just gone down. That's what this is about, the dismantling of the institution, nothing else, and the disgruntled president. Then there was a lot of talk about irregularities in companies. Let us let them fall again at that time before 1.9.2005, but once again it will be shown that the powers of the current Commission and the previous National Assembly have not affected these areas. And it's not that only one body, wherever it's located, can solve all these things. We also have other repressive bodies, which should respond, particularly when it comes to the issue of business legality, business machinations and others. But no! Colleagues from the current ruling coalition are trying to show all these things by making it the responsibility of Kos and his, regardless of whether they have neither the authority nor the power to do so at the time. Why is that? Because they're afraid of control. And nothing else. Or maybe it's because there's someone else in the stomach. Thus, all this argument against refers to either cases that do not fall within the scope of jurisdiction, or to a time when it has not yet been made. It is said that there is a huge scene of inefficiency of a body that was not there at all, so that it can then be removed. And it would not be the first time for an experiment, voluntary of course, in the best sense of the word to be dismantled by the law in a legalistic way to eliminate the unpleasant levers of control. That's what this is about. No, Mr Jerovšek, we do not have such practice, it is true that there have been many problems with the establishment of this commission, but at the end of the recommendation of a group of countries which hears on behalf of GRECO, the United Nations Convention dealing with the issue of combating corruption, the pressure of the Slovenian public, which has been discussed, the pressure of the opposition and also the good work of the Members, came to the law and the establishment of this commission - which was proposed by the previous government and adopted by the previous National Assembly. From this point of view, these things have been cleared and from this point of view I am coming to the part of the discussion where colleagues from New Slovenia may be concerned about why this is of interest to whom in the world. Why is he interested in crime and corruption, why are they interested in freedom of the press, why are they interested in human rights issues? Mr Sok, whoever enters democratic politics after 1945, needs to know that certain themes, so to speak, are humane, and that there are certain questions, questions which can also be asked beyond the competences of national policies and national states. First of all, these were human rights issues, and in a sense, the issue of freedom of the press is one of these key human rights, and it has also been slowly established that the issue of organised fight against corruption and crime is an internationally important issue where countries connect, where they exchange data and where they set up mechanisms that restrict it. Because if we limit ourselves to this last one, it doesn't know national boundaries, but it has a richly distributed money laundering network and other things. Therefore, I am surprised that in New Slovenia they do not know this. That's, I'll say, something that's kind of incomprehensible. So in this debate, when we are talking about the first reading of this law, it is only necessary to know that there is a lot of perplexity, which makes sense only that one institution, which is only at its beginning, is trying to be abolished in this originality, so that we do not speak up about the impartiality and independence of concrete political parties. We replace it with something else, of course. And, colleagues, I ask you whether it is possible that the commission led by the esteemed colleague, Mrs Tavš, would deal with all applications of all officials in Slovenia. Is it also, I will say, legally and constitutionally permissible for the National Assembly to actually take control of things for which it is somehow not qualified? This means that we will essentially let go of a mechanism that must act professionally, which in some respects must also be internationally connected, which in some respects must be independent of the parliamentary majority and the parliamentary minority, because that is the point, and so on. I would not say all of this if the government knew clearly what it was that needed to be corrected. She didn't make it clear. From this point of view, I conclude that the recovery in the end will be about the same as I said, and at some point in time, external factors will probably force us to re-establish such a commission and give it more power. And what would make sense to discuss is whether, according to our judicial and constitutional system, it is possible to give this committee more power, not to withdraw it with these cynical comments, which are heard differently from Mr Churchill's mouth than from Mr Zagorec's. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u58	Thank you. Reploco has a colleague, Sok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Because apparently my colleague and I didn't get along. So, I have not troubled that certain institutions are interested in what law on RTV we will adopt in the Republic of Slovenia. Nor do I mind that Transparency International is interested in which of the commissions will take care of corruption in Slovenia. But I did, of course - and if you wanted to provoke me because you are the provoker of this kind in this national assembly, you have also succeeded - you asked how it is possible that you are not interested in some big open questions. And I mentioned the genocide issue, so we're clear, I know you're not interested in it either. But they react very quickly to those topics that you and your colleagues launch abroad, and that is also how we understand it. And that actually surprises us, so even as a coalition party to these opinions, which they then send back, we don't give much. Let them first arrange their affairs at home before their threshold so that they are well and then be able to communicate their views to the other Member States of the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u60	Thank you. A colleague of Zagorac signed up for the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u61	Thank you for your word, chairman. I think I've been so called to challenge this replica, too, Mr Churchill. First of all, I would like to thank my colleague, Školcz, for comparing me to a statesman whose greatness is not he and I are probably never going to reach, and with all due respect to you. But Mr. Skull's lecture on the logic of setting up a certain commission has more of a challenge to me than to having him appoint me and compare me with Mr Churchill. When you named the logic of the establishment of the anti-corruption commission and, I will say, mention all the cases of corruption that we mentioned in this debate today, whether it would not be logical for the then government and the government coalition to establish this commission before and not when you already cleaned up what was to be cleaned in this Slovenia, then you set up a commission to identify and discover something that you had done long before it was established. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u62	We continue the debate. Next on the list of applicants is colleague Lucky Friend. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u63	Thank you very much, Mr President. Your Honor! I would like to point out that the current opposition, the previous position, is expressing its disagreement with the attack, which is not constructive at all. While criticism is a very simple act, spitting after everything that has not grown on your cornea is a purely normal phenomenon and in fact there is nothing binding to anyone, but such a person is quickly recognized. Therefore, I would ask personally all respected colleagues: would the opposition today, colleagues from the LDS and the United List at that time, the current Social Democrats, if they were incorruptible, fair if they were constructive? In fact, this commission is, in my opinion, your fire wall, which, when it falls, will reveal everything -- excuse the expression -- "pigs" that are still glowing today with the saint's glow. It is not true that the freeways of corruption will be open, as Mr Kos points out, if we essentially resolve Mr Kos, in saying, of course. Transparency will be consistent because they will be able to look at the left, the right, and the other way around. And it was said that the marriage was essentially inquality and the "shot passed" and that it would be better if we took it away. Yes, who is the bearer of all these affairs and places, which have been botched in a good decade and have essentially damaged all citizens and citizens, and have not, after all, impoverished their purchasing power? Who are these titlers, these bearers, who are these strong men and what colors are all these unpunished perpetrators who are so far "free after Prešeren" to do what they want. I'm not going to make any valuations because my colleague, Boštjan Zagorac, actually said that. Finally, I would also like to point out that, as long as this remains, nothing good is written to the Slovenian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u64	Thank you. Next on the list of applicants is Dr. Pavel Gantar. [[He's not in the hall.]] Next on the list is mag. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u65	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues! It's clear to everyone in this story, "where dog taco prays." It is not a matter of seriously addressing corruption and all similar irregularities, which would be useful and necessary in our country, but of doing so from all sides, not politically, because corruption does not have a political prognosis, not on the left or on the right, but in our society it is honestly mixed both in the past and today. And this should be done, for in this area we do not have the one who could throw the first stone, many of them, starting with many affairs of our past. From what is possible to the mother of all affairs, it is called a arms trade. Millions disappeared there, not in tolars, and in euros and stamps. Even in that area, I hope that in the arms trade, those who today take the most for justice will once say their own words, regardless of who is involved, or the left and right, that there will be no revolt, on all sides, on both sides. It is clear, however, that in this story, that today's political moment in Slovenia, as we originally called it, the coalition roller, then the tsunami, has proved to be too weak a weapon. Because, why? If you screw something up, it gets up in time. If the tsunami takes something away, we know the tsunamis will come for a few hundred years. No, we need to get some more effective weapons and there's a compactor, a scavenger or a cylindrical machine that we've covered for this convenient task with some flag in national colors. It seems extremely bad to me that this government of mine - my government - I say to President Janez Janša, because Slovenia has one government and it is right that it supports and respects - is using some strange other method for weapons, especially that this government, which I respect, is let down so low that it allows so bad, so incompletely prepared laws to come into Parliament and even recognises it. I appreciate this government, and I expect it to also appreciate me and us, as Members and as Members of Parliament, sending us good and well-prepared laws. In this case, unfortunately, that's not the case. We're talking about some kind of "breezy tiger." And by this old practice and by the promises we have spoken and all this wise policy should do what was previously bad and keep well and upgrade. This new authority has discovered a harmless tiger and instead of being an independent tiger, being upgraded, given weapons and teeth, then we will throw this tiger into a compact to tear it apart and break it apart, and then, of course, we can put some of our sheep on one side, but it will only have teeth, so that it bites at the right side of the political option, and on the other side it does not bite. This is nothing more than a human rights hearing with other thinkers. Even in the area of an independent commission, it is necessary to place our people who will, of course, supervise those who need to be monitored. But at this point, it seems to me that there's some kind of political clear move that we're diverting public attention to another area. The topic, of course, is not an economy that we have so vehemently claimed before the elections that we will withdraw from it. Far from it. We are returning to the economy with a number of personnel and replacements and this roller and tsunami is in an economy that has now been recognized and recognized by the public for six months. And it is not most shocking that he is the strongest in the economy, but it is worrying that he is also interfering with the judiciary, the economy, and look at the meeting we are holding this week. It's supposed to be one of the most working, most crucial before the elections. What do we do? Enough with this "no-brain tiger", the RTV law will be changed, so that there will be "right and ours", the state's world will be "cut off" by cutting off the president's salary and more. All those who disturb us, which are any further to us, deal with all of us, the economy and these European regions, and they disturb us. The country, the government has made a decision, and this time instead of taking advantage of the fact that all policies, left and right step together and that we all say together in the interest of Slovenia once again and at least renegotiate and tell ourselves what we have to say about regions, to each other, and finally step together and find an optimal solution. No, it's not that important! In this session, which is most important, we are dealing with other things, especially human resources. I just hope there's a common sense, and that's not how it's gonna be. But I agree with my forerunners, who said that part of this, I'll say, the paralytics that spoils the ever-doing coalition had broken one side before, now they're moving on the other. All I care about in this story is that he doesn't move to the other side, but that he goes back from where he came from and from where he was sent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u66	Thank you. Mr Franz Kangler, a fellow Member of Parliament, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u67	Thank you for your word. Dear Members and Members. I have followed with great interest the debate of my Members and fellow Members of Parliament, but I am very surprised at some individuals, and I would also like to comment on some of your words that you have said to me in passing. You know, I've been in this National Assembly for nine years and luckily and unfortunately I've always landed in a coalition. The last coalition before this term was also such that your party colleagues, our coalition colleagues, have repeatedly overrun their coalition partners with a heavy roller driver so that there was no couple and no surprise today. I regret that you were not present in the previous term in this National Assembly to have this feeling, what it means to be a partner, what it means to be a member of the coalition, and when a coalition partner with a heavy roller, not just the opposition, the coalition partner, and I hope that our coalition partners will not allow it in this mandate and things must be coordinated. When you say that corruption is not political-related, it's a wrong opinion. According to my experience and knowledge in this house and my nine-year mandate and as a member of some investigative commissions, most of the time the policy has been linked to heavy corruption. It is the policy that has allowed corruption to occur in one way or another, whether politically, economically or otherwise, which we parliamentarians have found difficult to prove or disclose in at least the last nine years. Corruption is present in all segments: in politics, in the economy, at the national, local or international level. If you're talking here today, Comrade Sayovic, it's an independent commission, in my personal opinion, you're fucking wrong. You're wrong, but in my personal opinion, I'm sure someone else probably thinks so. It is precisely because of this coalition roller of LDS and the United List that the previous term did not bring the Commission's proposal into line with the coalition but was named by show of strength and muscle. And in my personal opinion, such a committee should be led by a man who would receive the support of both the opposition and the coalition in the National Assembly. However, I agree with some previous speakers that this is primarily a matter for the President of the Commission and that the law submitted to the fellow Members is also the result of who is at the head of this commission. I agree, even though they say otherwise. But who's to blame? You, dear fellows of the opposition! Because you have not listened, not only once, repeatedly, and I myself have been the target of this roller coaster several times in this National Assembly when you overrun some such and different views on a given situation in the coalition. And no one else can afford it, not even the strongest party in the coalition, because in four years' time, the story will be exactly the same. I will also tell you this, dear colleagues you are discussing here today, those who have a little longer internship in the National Assembly, luckily or unhappily, we are familiar with such and different information of individual people within Slovenian politics. Some of us were members of the investigative commissions, some of us became acquainted directly through membership in the investigative commissions with certain activities of individuals. Many times this list included a respected president sitting on the balcony today, Mr Kos. I'm not gonna judge his personal internship whether he's capable or not. As far as professional references are concerned, I'm sure he's good for the work of the commission. However, I would probably like to have the political support of all the parties in such a position as it has today. But here is the biggest problem - and I also take it as such - of the credibility of the President of this Commission. And fear. Fear of what? Fear of abuse of what is happening in this committee and what is being accepted and processed. Do not neglect the data - we well know, fellow Members, what kind of data is collected in this committee. And it's only right that they're gathering. My personal information, my immediate family members, including my wife, your partners, such and different accounts, and so on. If anyone is skilled with the seventh force, he can discredit many in one way or another. In order not to do so, there must also be a guarantee in the first man. I myself have been a witness, my fellow Member, when Mr Kos was the head of the criminal service. When I once exercised control as a member of the State Assembly at the Ministry of the Interior, I met in the hallway of my classmate. After four, five years, I shook hands with him, greeted him, and went on to do my job. It was a problem for Mr Kosa, this person I will not name with his name and surname, but Mr Kos knows who it is. He called him to his office and said, "What do you have to do with Kangler?" If it's wrong for a man to greet a man in the hall! If it is wrong for a member of the People's Party to come to an institution and to meet a person he knows not to hang out or say hello, then it is very wrong. And if anyone, in accordance with the law on classified information, has the right to receive Gričar’s report with Article 4. If anyone wants to read this countersignal report, in accordance with all the regulations, I will be happy to offer it to you to read it. And if someone did an analysis of some back-up events, who and in what way and who those criminals who were in all of these affairs were "like" operatives, and if you fold these dominoes, you can see that the point of the proposal is that someone is afraid that it is the credibility of running this commission, even though I do not want to assess this place either with positiveness or with negativeness. This should then be assessed by the coalition partners, with the opposition, and found a suitable man with support. Both on the left and on the right, both in the opposition and in the coalition. And this, Mr Saiovic, was not in the previous term because your party colleagues, some of the leaders with the tank, not the roller, went through the coalition partners. And the fruit of all of this today is what we have in this national assembly. And that's not how it works. And let that alert all the other coalition partners. And as the Government stated in point 4, the opinion said that the government supports the transfer of powers to the Commission of the National Assembly. The composition of this Commission, a multilateral composition, ensures a balanced functioning. [[The multi-party composition ensures a balanced functioning!]] The strong role of the opposition, however, guarantees quality control over power. I probably agree with that sentence, and probably all of you with me. If we had taken this sentence, this opinion of the government, which was written, even then, when we elected the President of this Commission, the situation today would have been slightly different and more than that debate. But those who know the stories back, those who know Depala you, if I say so, and some other affairs, especially the Vič-Holmec affair and the influence of the then minister and also the statements of individual journalists, who and how wrote the articles for some of the officers who later cancelled, and those who read the so-called Gričar report thoroughly today have this different opinion. My opinion has been the result of policy work in the last nine years and the result of work in those investigative commissions which have access to such or other information. And I could have created a picture or something. However, I did not today, given that some confidential documents or data or personal nature were involved, give me no information of such or any other kind. However, I would like you, my fellow Members, to take a closer look at this issue, that those interested in such or other report, that you are trying to get acquainted with the message, although it is of an internal nature, is not an act, but that graph of the intensity of the call, the links to the official labels that were made by the authorised officials of the Ministry of the Interior at that given time, you can create an image, one way or another. Of course, I would also like to define myself until the marriage proposal itself. I cannot say that the marriage proposal is good or bad or necessary or necessary or unnecessary. I can't say. Given that there is a general discussion and that there is still time for second reading, I will support the proposal. However, I warn you that for the second reading, I will carefully consider what my next decision will be. This gives me the opportunity to make some improvements, to change, to make up, to say the least. However, if the President of the Commission sitting on the balcony is accompanying us, I regret that he cannot participate in the debate, so much so as this committee, I suggest that he thinks about it, let him resign as President of the Commission and allow the possibility that we love a new president in the National Assembly, who will receive support both in the coalition and in the opposition. And this is the most optimal solution, and any such debate, further, in the National Assembly, and the proposal for a second hearing, I think, will no longer be needed in this National Assembly. Those are my honest words. And I think, and I can honestly say that this is the biggest problem. And I'm stressing again. If this happens, my vote will be given to the new President, when I find out that this is a person who will have support both on the left and the right, whether it will be support from the opposition or the coalition. I wish it were a person of concern who has broad support. Not in the way it happened. And I would end this debate with that.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u68	Thank you very much. Reploco has Master Saiovic. Were you misunderstood or misinterpreted?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u69	No, I would, given that I have been appointed repeatedly personally, but I think that the words of Mr Kangler, my fellow Member, whom I greatly appreciate for the principle of keeping, and many of the thoughts he has told me are very close to me, I would like to give this story just a few explanations. First of all, that's it. If I was misunderstood. Corruption is not about the left, not about the right. It is the problem of every society and the problem of every policy, and yet, I very much agree with it, as well as of every authority. And this solution, as indicated by this Commission, that we will supervise ourselves, this matter does not seem good to me, because Mr Kangler also referred to it, as soon as possible things will be misused for political purposes, or left, right, reverse or otherwise. However, I support these thoughts and efforts to ensure that this control outside the policy area is acceptable to the left and also to the right. That's progress. In this direction, of course, if we ever vote on it, we will meet on the same shore. And another thought. I understand Mr. France Kangler quite clearly. I'm sure some mistakes have been made in the past. I don't run from them. I accept their responsibilities no matter where I was then or what I was doing. However, if they were to repeat themselves, they do not need to be repeated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u70	Thank you very much. I'd like to remind you again of the contents of the replica. Let the replica really be directed to those cases where someone is misunderstood and interpreted. However, we still have a lot of time, including for the debate, so that those who want to debate can apply for the debate later. Thanks for understanding. I invite Mr Bojan Ruglje to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u71	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. To date, it is also possible to say domestically that sparrows are hunted and pigeons are released. Why? Everyone probably knows what it means to be a 20% owner in a company worth SIT 2 million or 20% owner in a company worth SIT 2 billion. An entity in which an official, for example, has a share of SIT 399 million, can operate with the State, with public institutions and institutions. A company where the official has only 400 thousand shares, he can't do that. That means almost a thousand times less. The next thing that bothers me is the distinction between a farmer and an entrepreneur's gainful activity. They can both do the same job, but I do not know why the entrepreneur is a second-rate citizen in this case when taxes are to be paid, but he is, of course, a first-rate citizen. I'm not saying this because of a variety of privileges, but all I care about is differences. The third thing I'd like to point out is family ties. We all know in this assembly that corruption or the greatest share of corruption does not take place through related ties. I think that's clear to everyone. When, for example, did the wife pay her husband for corruption? This is happening quite differently. That's not what this is about. I will, of course, support the bill. But I think a few amendments will be needed. But I'm going to back him up because the law so far has not really done the job he's supposed to have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u72	Thank you very much. It is the turn of Mrs. Cvetka Zalokar Orazem.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representative of the government! Perhaps today, after these three hours, it would be naive to discuss the contents of this law, for everything else is in the air and I am grateful to those who say it honestly. I think it was such a colleague of Kanglers who, in fact, said most frankly that even those who say something are supposed to think and mean everything else they say. In short, it's really hard to know what the problem is today. But I will still be naive and try to talk about content, especially because the government has given a positive opinion on this proposal of the law in some way. She said that she did not object primarily to the law because it was conceptually appropriate. It's supposed to be the right thing to do. Personally, I think that this government opinion is, in a way, such that things need to be read between the lines and we should speak, however, about the President of the Commission, because this has been made clear today. The only problem is that. My assessment is that the Commission, which is supposed to function in the framework of the National Assembly and would almost conclude and hope to conclude today's bet that, given that this will obviously happen, it will be led or led by a representative of the Slovenian National Party and will also be rewarded for this proposal of the law, which they are somehow taking, so that I hope to conclude this bet today and will certainly come to that. But I would like to read, given that we are talking about content and would concentrate on it, this statement. We have suggested expanding the range of officials who have to report their assets. We have proposed that, to the extent permitted by the legislation, the data are public and we have proposed that sanctions be imposed on those who do not issue those reports. This is the statement made by Mr Janez Janša on 3 October 2003, criticising this law, which is intended to enforce the Property Control Commission. Let me comment. The circle of officials is supposed to expand. The proposal that the government, now chairman, has given him a positive opinion, retains the exact same circle of officials that will be supervised. Although this number is very large, there is not what was disputed at the time, the Presidents of the Supervisory Councils, etc., because the legal basis is probably also questionable. We have proposed, he says that the data would be public, and, of course, again later he also says, in the same speech, that this situation must be more or less public because it is a matter of performing public functions. One who goes into the public sphere has to accept that people will also know his wealth. In the past week, the Finance Officer asked the members of the government and the Member about their financial situation, and he also wanted to make the matter more transparent in some way. Finally, the government's opinion also states that ministers and secretaries of state have committed themselves to disclosure of all information on their assets by means of an ethical code. Not all government members transmitted data despite multiple E.R.s. Madam Minister for Agriculture Lukačič refused to publish the data, so it will also be necessary to start a bit before its threshold, and obviously these were just words that sounded in the year before the elections, but now that they have to be realised, they are forgotten. It also seems to me that there is no problem in any way just that this commission is inappropriate, that it cannot perform its functions, and that this was a good way for me to find it unusual that the coalition does not have the courage to do what is actually pushing it. It seems to me that we are working and doing ourselves a bear service by transferring the powers of the commission to a commission in the National Assembly where the opposition is supposed to have an opposition - which will include the Slovenian National Party, so it will again be a strange matter - a dominant role. However, I do not think it is possible for this committee of the National Assembly to carry out all these large-scale tasks that it is intended to perform. Not only has such a commission been once in the past, but it has proved completely inappropriate, completely incompetent. People did not broadcast, nothing was actually from her, so other options and options were sought. There are more than 4,000 of these roles, and I can't imagine how it's going to be six-member, I don't know what kind of apparatus it's going to be doing this with, and where it's going to be more transparent or efficient than the commission. I am not talking about the problem that Mr Kangler has, who is leading this committee, but what would be a more substantive and conceptual solution if we were talking about content - and we should talk about content, not names. If the name is a problem, let's get this thing out of the way and let it settle down like this. However, according to the content, this matter is not right. It is also true that certain solutions in this law are not good to complement them. I think that the question of municipal officials, especially municipal councillors and councillors, who have been in a certain situation where a considerable number of these have resigned because they are supposed to be unable to work or function, to report to tenders. More than once, we have received clarification that it is not only possible to understand this matter that it is different. The community of municipalities has also been informed and has information that such a prohibition applies exclusively to the operation of a municipal councillor or a councillor in his own environment, i.e. in a municipality where he is a municipal official. Of course, there are no obstacles to public procurement or to the conduct of such matters in other settings. This opinion has been given, and this has been continuously exploited as the biggest flaw in this law. But if necessary, it could also be improved. We, too, felt that there was obviously something going on here, but it makes no sense that these are the reasons why, or why, he wants to hide behind, we want to end this commission. I think the only question is whether this committee is headed by the right person. And it's a shame that we can't really say bob beans, do what needs to be done, but it will hide behind a proposal made by a non-acquisitional party, that it will be hidden for the commission to be abolished and that it will not be done in such a way that it is said that the problem is actually elsewhere. We will certainly do ourselves a great service with the content, because in fact the complete functional sphere will work in an old way again with regard to property. And that will certainly only mean less control.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u74	Thank you very much. I would like to take the floor with you, Mr Franco. [[FaeroeCity in ……]] Horvata.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u75	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Government representatives! The proposal by the government or a group of Members is not only bad but extremely harmful. I am surprised by the government's actions when it supports such a bill. Especially since this government, when it was in opposition, was the most vocal critic of the phenomena, the serious and alleged phenomena of corruption. I'm not saying that many times unwarranted. It was said, and we remembered night meetings and many other discussions in this house. Thirdly, I would say that I agree with the need to amend the current law. In particular, it is necessary to remove non-lifely grave solutions, increase the effectiveness of the Commission's functioning, increase its effective cooperation with the prosecutions and other state law enforcement authorities and other authorities. Allow me to make a few more arguments why this law is harmful and even contrary to what is happening in international institutions, of which we are also members, one of them even holds the presidency. That's OWE. The proposal to abolish the Commission arises at a time or is being addressed, and many also support it at a time when we are members of NATO, when we are members of the European Union, when we are chairing the OSCE, when we are competing for membership in the OECD. And these organisations are giving continuous or even, I could say, increasing emphasis on the fight and prevention of corruption, including the United Nations and the International Interparliamentary Union. So this is a global, universal, and highly coordinated action to combat corruption. Let me give you just one concrete example and also a few arguments. From the latest document, this is from the declaration of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation, which was adopted last Tuesday in Washington, and where there was also a President in addition to us, the Foreign Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Rupel, I am sure that he was able to bring the document, this declaration, to Ljubljana, or at least his co-workers and co-workers who accompanied him, or else the declaration is complete, including a special resolution on the fight against corruption, published on the website and you can see it. It was considered a special point. The resolution was adopted unanimously. And let me mention just two points that are important to this debate and to the decision on this law. First time. This resolution calls on the parliamentarians of all OSCE Member States to step up efforts to combat corruption. More specifically, they strengthen or improve conditions and strengthen anti-corruption institutions. Another time. This declaration or resolution calls on the parliamentarians of the Member States, and we are also told to adopt clear and balanced legislation. And what is particularly important for our debate and decision is to support the establishment of effective mechanisms to control revenue and property declarations by parliamentarians, ministers and public officials. This position, I understand, although I translate it from English, means or speaks for the benefit of special independent authorities, which must also be professional. In the debates in New York or Washington with the people directly involved in this, which were the authors of this resolution, I have also received confirmation that, in addition to all other law enforcement and justice bodies, there is also a need for special commissions if individual countries are to be sufficiently effective in preventing and combating corruption. The National Assembly Commission, which is also necessary, does not challenge its importance, is not a suitable substitute for a special so-called Kosovo Commission, for two reasons. Members would monitor themselves by this logic, because in one part when we register income and property, we are also actually subject to this monitoring or this control. And a second time. The Parliamentary Commission is not an expert body, but a political body and I see its role in addressing the system and functioning of institutions in the fight against corruption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u76	Thank you very much. I don't see Mr. Brenčič. I give my word to Mr. Mag. Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u77	Thank you for your word. I'll get everyone a nice round of greetings. Speaking of the so-called anti-corruption commission, let me first of all stress that I fully agree with the Government's finding, which is also stated in its opinion, that the name of this matter is already quite wrong. In fact, it is a larger commission to determine the incompatibilities of the performance of a particular function with forms of gainful activity, but nothing more. Secondly, it is a matter of organisation and action in this area. For this commission is, in a way, a symbol of the Slovenian transition according to the principle that we have unfortunately witnessed to him all the time when the LDS had power. It is said that the password of the transition was how to change everything so that nothing would actually change completely. The fact is that this commission is very expensive, that its effectiveness is very questionable, and that, most importantly, it has been politically put in place. About that later. But then what is the effect of this commission? Now we have two options. One is to keep it, even with a certain change, and, of course, taxpayers will have to deduct quite a lot of money to do so. Another option is to transfer these powers by appropriate arrangements to the Parliamentary Commission, which is composed plurally, from several political parties. Some of you said, yes, it's political. Just as much as Mr Kos, ladies and gentlemen, I will prove in the end. But where more than one party is represented, there is mutual control of these parties and therefore this control is effective and in all democratic societies this is also a fundamental principle of control when it comes to any use of public funds. After all, this is where we touch the use of public funds, or at the border of the law. However, it is clear that if the parties are competitive with each other, they look at each other under their fingertips. And because of this, of course, it is not necessary to pay special people, to hire Mr Kos and others, by the way, today in the newspaper you could read Mr Kos's protest that those who control must have at least as much pay as those who are controlled. Which I also have one opinion about, especially in the light of this debate here today. I would also remind you of what I started with, and I would also like to warn you, because there was a colleague earlier, I think she said if she was a colleague that some things are changing. What I'm about to say is I said in writing six months ago. When I asked the government whether it agreed that, under the leadership of Mr Rope, the then LDS government had completely ignored the unified opinion of journalists in Slovenia, it was said that both the RTV Slovenia press union and the coordination of these unions, as well as the companies of journalists in Slovenia on RTV Slovenia. What it is about to read from an article summarised by the STA that it is a little shorter, but it is in fact very nice to summarize: journalists and editors of the information programme Television Slovenia and the Slovenian Society of Journalists Act on TV Slovenia are publicly called upon to reflect on the appointment of Draga Kos as chairman of the anti-corruption commission. The Commission for the Prevention of Corruption is the institution which will play a very important role in the detection and prosecution of corruption and should therefore, according to the company of journalists of Slovenia, as well as journalists and editors of the information programme TV Slovenia, be the lead of such an institution as an example to individuals and institutions in Slovenia. In doing so, the group reiterated its support to the journalist TV Slovenia, Tomaž Rancu, who has already proved to the court twice that the supervision of his calls in 1999 was illegal and unjustifiable. Although the judgment against the then deputy director of the criminal service at MNZ Draga Kos is not yet legally binding, a group of journalists wonders whether the appointment of Kosa is legal, although it fulfils all the tendering conditions, even legitimate. That, ladies and gentlemen, is the point we must face. And because this has been ignored, it is a fundamental question of how free journalists are, in fact, in all the big words, and on the other hand, who controls supervisors, which is the fundamental question of every democratic society. Ignorance of this means that it was a completely political decision. However, if this is a political decision, then I would like to stress once again if I choose between Mr Kos and a pluralist group, composed of all political parties, a group that will control each other, then, forgive me, I trust that group more. I will therefore personally vote in favour of the law, and I hope that it will also be finally adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Ms Maja Shirca is next.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u79	Thank you very much. In this national assembly, we have once amended the law to remove some of the personnel and to introduce hundreds of new personnel. It's a law on civil servants. We are now amending one law because there is no other way to replace an unloved leader of a certain commission. I'm waiting for us to change the law on the Ombudsman. How the exchanges take place in the supervisory councils and whether it's hospitals, kindergartens or other public institutions, we know. Membership of the Supervisory Boards is changed, followed by the appointment of new directors. In this sense, there was also today a kind of unloving story that came from Mr Friends of the SNS, a gentleman who is a friend of malicious anonymities and had in some way the purpose of discrediting my role as President of the Council of the Public Institute of Cinematheque, which I have been chairing for the past year as an acquaintance and guardian of film history. I know there's a lot of people in line waiting for this to happen. Why, we know. We also know that there is no professional reference to such a species on the waiting list. But it is also true, and in this place I have to replicate the introductory statements made a few hours ago, by the proposer of this law. Unlike Members, my husband does not protect such immunity, but the most credible immunity. It is called reputation, knowledge, respect, behaviour, recognition, after all, it is also a winner of the Prešeren Prize and currently all awards in the home space, which are linked to the architectural profession. It is a reputable professor and one who, on a number of levels, strengthens national pride. He's seen a lot of movies in Kinotheka, but he didn't design any electrical wiring or any other installations that he saw today. I will not go into the solutions and limitations that the law also brings with it by setting low-value orders, I will only add that the implementation of the library in Nova Gorica, whose designer was and also with the award then confirmed my husband, took place in the previous millennium and represented Slovenia at the global biennial of architecture and it also received certain recognitions. I repeat only that government whisperers, therefore Members of the National Party, have certain reasons to question and subdue now, raise doubts when they are trading with the government, but the rewards are more than obvious for such trading. But of course, if I go back to this immunity, which is true, it has nothing to do with this marriage, but it has an insinuation. Certain immunity may be called into question when it comes to the compatibility of certain applications made by Members and to the anti-corruption or anti-Clientalist law that we are considering today has something in common. I wonder whether it is compatible as a Member to conclude a contract with a country of 45 million dollars to sell a collection of samples of Slovenian money and other banknotes. We know that in the English press, where Mr Jelinčič received these prints, they claim that they were handed over to the representative of the Slovenian Parliament, not to Mr Jelinčič Plmenite as an individual. It's not my intention to discuss this. This is discussed by the competent authorities, law enforcement authorities. Of course, if they're not too intruded about it. Let me add that there is a great paradox in today's debate. The position or government is letting go of corruption, wants less competent forms of control, wants less control. Now that he's in power, of course, that's understandable. She is angry with the opposition, who, even when she was in the position, put an end to it, when she strengthened control and when she maintained it. This paradox is great, and let me point out that before the elections Slovenia was overwhelmed by the thought that it was a country where there was no more honest people, that the spirit of a growing virus in the form of clientelism, theft and corruption was spreading throughout Slovenia. Of course, it is the authority that came into power today with the help of this virus that claims that it wants such a situation where the best possible conditions for corruption will be. A two-way, arrogant, cynical, wrong world! It is wrong for the world to want to go back to 1992 with the help of a party that benefits from the blurry and intransparency of institutions at the moment it is in power. Undoubtedly, the Commission of the National Assembly will not be able to control itself, whether professionally or not, because it will be in conflict with itself, what the government and the Whisperer, or satellite SNS, now imposes on it in law. The abolition of very strict and effective control, it is said, of anti-corruption institutions, is therefore only proposed to ensure that corruption is legal, possible and permissible, and I ask myself this question today when we face the management of all supervisory institutions, we know this, not only by lowering wages, but also by other substitutions and restrictions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u80	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Hwauc to the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u81	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Surely we all agree that corruption is a serious problem that may bring great benefits to a small group, for society and individuals, but others who are not involved are, of course, particularly harmful. So this is a serious and very complex problem, and it would be an illusion to think that we will solve such a complex problem only by setting up a commission that mainly collects data, but does not have some serious powers. We know that if we are to eradicate and reduce corruption, all systems in society, the police, the judiciary, the prosecution must work. Finally, it is necessary to have legislation to prevent such things as much as possible, and ultimately social values must also change. If it's a guy who manages to put a bribe in his pocket and the neighborhood doesn't convict him, then it's a very big problem. Then it will be very difficult to prevent and detect this. The Commission already has very limited powers. I ask myself whether this is a serious fight against corruption if the Commission informs me that I will be part of my salary because I have not provided this committee with data that are otherwise available to it - data on my income statement or data which are either in public documents or are publicly available; or whether I am talking about a land book or perhaps a court register where data on companies are recorded. This may be a fraction, but a very small part of this fight against corruption. But I think that this fight will have to be won on many other fronts. We have listened to the obvious that the proposed new regime brings about the fact that we will control ourselves in Parliament. First of all, I think there are only 90 of us here, many of the officials who are in this control system. Another time. The regulation proposed gives the opposition the president and gives the opposition the majority of the commission. This means that this national assembly, if it does so, gives the opposition some power, some control of the opposition, which I think is a democratic standard that should not be so problematic. Today we have two committees covering this area in one way or another. The latter, the Commission, which is the subject of today's debate, as already mentioned, is not as cheap. The financial plan for this year proposed that 264.6 million tolars should be required for the functioning of this Commission. Even though we're talking about a lot of bigger numbers here, 200 and a few million more are not enough money. A lot of taxpayers have to contribute to raising that money. I think it is also necessary to take into account the rationality aspect, bearing in mind that if a new regime is adopted, it will certainly be cheaper and even simpler. It seems odd that the proposal is not to mention any other word because it was proposed by a particular party. I can't agree with that. In this House, anyone may propose any law in accordance with the rules. And if we are correct, each proposal must also be properly addressed. However, I agree that the law, as such or as a proposal, has some shortcomings that could also be corrected by appropriate amendments, so I will support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Since Mr Posede is not here, I give the floor to Mr Milan Petk.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u83	Thank you, Chairman. LDS is running out of time, so I'll be brief. I must say that I personally feel sorry for the SNS's proposal to go with this law, that I am even more sorry for Mr Friend, who, instead of obviously not the first to sign, must set his back for something that I am sure has not grown on his lawn, but has grown on the president's lawn and also serves the interests and views of the President. It is even sadder that the government, which has even supported this law, has found that some additions make it possible to improve the law. I don't think it can be improved with any additions to the law, that it's so bad and so distasteful that the government says it disagrees with it, but it won't. In previous discussions some colleagues have expressed some thoughts related to this importance and the reputation of the body that we are repealing by law today. Mr Grims spoke about how taxpayers will assess us, who will decide that the corruption commission is, of course, in need of funding. Clearly, the need for funding is even more saddened that Mr Grims does not know that much more money will be given to taxpayers because the Commission will be abolished and there will be no one who would actually prevent corruption, which is indirectly also the cost of taxpayers, and this effect will of course be much greater. Mr Sok spoke about the conspiracy that Europe has obviously concluded and the world is against us because they are addressing us with some letters that he believes are not necessary or should not be taken into account. He forgot that not only did they receive a letter from the regionalisation law, they received a clue as to how the law should be drawn up and, of course, there was the word of Europe, instead of resisting that very word of Europe. Mr. Kangler was talking about a roller who was in the past position he was in. So he's in a different position today, and he's working, and I don't know if this Mr. Kangler guy is aware of that. This rolling stock shuts down the Agency for Rail Traffic in Maribor, shuts down the Public Enterprise Fund in Maribor, and this roller doesn't seem to bother him, because it's a little easier once in a while. This weight will, of course, be much stronger in the end. Mr Grimes used one letter or one press appeal to criticise and attack Mr Kos. He forgot whether he did not know whether or not he had deliberately forgotten that, of course, the Higher Court in Ljubljana had issued an excusable action in the case of Ranc v Kos or the State and by decision to reject the application and I think it was an abuse or, if Mr Grims did not know, it was ignorance that he had therefore been reading something that was not to be seen. At least not to Mr. Kos. Mr Janša, when he was the opposition leader, said one wise thought in 2003: The best remedy against corruption is that in democracy they are not always the same in power. Is it now that Mr Janša, as Prime Minister, is in power that this country is healthy, or is it no longer corruption? So we don't need an anti-corruption commission and that's why we're shutting it down? I think that this statement is the most illustrative of the situation in which we have come with the mandate of this government, with a coalition in the same composition as it is today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u84	. Thank you very much. Mr Miro Petek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u85	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Hello, everyone in this room. Unlike my colleague and associate Friday, I would just say that in the proposal for a law on the incompatibilities of performing a function with a gainful activity, however, there are some elements that support them. Nevertheless, I would say, in the first place, that, in essence, the fight against corruption is not whether we have or do not have such or otherwise a parliamentary or government commission. Our country's biggest problem in the fight against corruption is that judicial authorities or law enforcement agencies do not act as they should or do not have the knowledge or willpower to do so. It is therefore necessary to ensure the proper functioning of the judicial system, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, to give freeway to civil initiatives. Transparency International, which has already been discussed here today, is present in our public more or less once a year. This is when the Slovenian State is looking on this scale, whether we have fallen on this scale or have improved. Otherwise Transparency International is not organized or has no office in this country. More attention should be paid to the persecution of corruption-related crime, money laundering and the prosecution of organised crime, where we are very modest. There are five articles on corruption in the Slovenian Penal Code. From 2000 to 2003, 262 persons were dealt with in all district prosecutors and in a group of state prosecutors for specific criminal offences. During these four years, 79 indictments were filed, i.e. on average only 20 per year. During last year, 54 people were accused of corruption and legal judgments can be counted on one hand in this country. Prosecutors themselves find that these data do not reflect the real state of corruption in the Slovenian space. There's certainly more corruption than this data shows. On the other hand, corruption is certainly less than is perceived by various public surveys. Even in various abuses of the positions of responsible persons, it is possible to find calls of corruption, but it is difficult for law enforcement authorities to prove it. In the light of the overall supervision of the work of the Special Prosecutors Group, which was carried out in 2002, for example, it was found that the Special Prosecutors did not deal with the cases for which they were competent this year. On the other hand, in the past they have not been assigned such cases as are among the typical organised crime. Surely, everyone in this Chamber will agree that corruption undermines democracy, hampers the market economy, creates unanimity and limits competition. This increases the cost of the country. The country has a permanent loss in this corruption game, in this corruption wheel. Profits are made by those who enter this game. Of course, they are profited when they are not caught in the act and when they are not punished. But the state is not only losing materially, it is also losing morals, because this is how citizens' confidence in the rule of law is falling and the credibility of the state is falling. Of course, we have our losses because of these matters, because the country is becoming more expensive and expensive because of the corrupt behaviour of certain layers. In my opinion, it is best to fight corruption in the most effective way to achieve the economic stability of the country, to establish market legitimacy, to ensure democracy and, of course, by constantly changing the social and political system and the political environment, which should be such that corruption cannot arise. I think the changes in the last elections have taken a step towards this. Today's approach to collecting reports on the assets of officials and the determinations themselves around conflicts of interest are based on the domain that all officials are necessarily unfair. All of this is sanctioned. And as mentioned here, especially with municipal officials, the matter has been brought to absurdity, and some municipal councillors have already returned their mandate in the past period. Some countries around the world and Europe come from another assumption: that officials can also be honest and that they can also be honest public servants. With the appropriate corrections to be proposed for this law, which was put into the procedure by the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, I believe that this law can be improved and discussed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Mr Aleš Gulič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u87	Respected and respected! The Kosovo Commission is doing well, and it is obvious that this is very, very wrong. The Kosovo Commission has a high reputation among people and receives applications from people who can then send them forward. Other institutions, which have been mentioned many times today, the police, the judiciary, the prosecutors, obviously do not have the same reputation among people and people do not report directly. This is one of the reasons why I think it is important for this Commission to remain and to continue to exist. If the only reason is that Mr Kos doesn't like it is because you have to say it out loud here, all of it, not just one. Otherwise, I take this bill for so-called "ei bocio del morte".
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u88	Thank you. Mr. Trofenic is not here. I can't see him. Then it's up to you, Mr. Mag. Milan Squeakle. There's no time. I'm sorry. Right, time's up. Then Mr. Tinker Bell.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u89	Nice greetings to all present! Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! We're talking anti-corruption law. This is a law that is supposed to allow or create conditions for these phenomena in our country not to occur. In doing so, we are confronted with the apparent part of the opposition's second part of the opposition, which has put this law into the parliamentary procedure, that the law is weak, inconsistent, and that its only purpose, with some silent support from the government, is to abolish Kosovo's so-called independent and professional commission. And "apolitical" or "unpolitical" is added to this. Here I am joining those who have said today that this committee is just as political as this national assembly and I do not think it is possible to go blind in this regard. The law we now have in force is bad. He's just as good or bad as the one in the process today. In my opinion, they are both about the same quality level. While the existing one is still very harmful. On the one hand, it does not guarantee the purpose for which some, particularly representatives of the current opposition, picked up or pressed the key for it in December 2003. And, on the other hand, during the period from which it takes place, it caused enormous damage, particularly to those municipal councilors who receive a few thousand meetings a month, who were forced to return the mandate entrusted to them in the last elections. Despite the will of the electorate, this mandate was forced to be returned because they were with their s.p.-j., d.o.o., where the establishment capital in most cases does not exceed two million tolars on the so-called list, after which they must not operate with the country. And it is not true that what you have discussed today is that this problem is only in the local environment. In recent months, I have received quite a few calls and visits in my sent offices, people living from their work, and with this work as independent entrepreneurs, living themselves, family, providing part of the resources for our salaries, which were limited in their business to such a degree that they simply had to return these secular mandates. But they did not do badly in congregational councils. Many of the congregation’s world is now very disadvantaged. It is, of course, representatives of all political spectrums, of all parties. I think here is the only concrete consequence of this so glorious and singing law. Another major problem, however, is that when a few thousand officials were involved, about three quarters of those who were thronging us, it was you who dropped one very large category, which you debated at the reception, but you seduced this debate into mixing into one boiler of such sacred public institutions, where members usually do not receive any meetings, into the supervisory boards of economic companies, which are either in the majority or in the control ownership of the state or through its parastatal funds. But there is no need for these people, no control. This is bad, and this will be necessary with amendments to this law, which is now in the process, to abolish and correct. At the time, as far as I was able to look at the magnetogram, a specific example was mentioned, the sale of the system techniques to Viator Vector. It was not mentioned that in this company he was very high-ranking and still employed by a man who was employed by the Ministry of Defence. Or that in the supervisory board one of the related companies of this company is a person who is also a member of the Ministry of Defence, which in itself is nothing bad, can even be good, but legislation must be made in such a way as to prevent the lack of transparency in such cases, which has not been done here. I see one great ambition that we have and an opportunity to deal with this law in such a way that there will be no doubt as to whether the law is good or bad, and to let go of all that I have talked about before, and what was also the constitutional initiative launched on 16 May this year at the Constitutional Court by those who are being Tangled. That is why it is wise to think about this change. Another matter that bothers me is that somehow the conclusion of the current Prime Minister's work on the part of the opposition was that, as the former leader of the largest opposition party and the current Prime Minister, to say the least domestically, he changed the board. These moves are not good and are harmful for the entire national assembly and for the whole country, because if you go to the government's programme, if you have read an opinion on this law, then it is clear to everyone, as much as readable, that the basic direction of this government is, and I believe that we too, I think that all of us sitting here, all of the 90's, in that the legislation that needs to be changed is not just this law that we understand, because we will not solve anything with this law, just as we did with yesterday. This law should only set out the frameworks that will allow for the normal perception of these problems. The rest of the legislation, which has changed to some extent in recent years, needs to be amended, but is still the main focus of these cases. Here I am referring mainly to the field of public procurement, where the law has been amended, but I hear that it is still not the best. I am referring to endlessly long decisions in individual ministries that are being drawn up I do not know how long ago when individual complaints are being decided a year or more against decisions at first stage. These are inadmissible cases. These are the cases they call after these events. And I think these cases need to be resolved. That is exactly what the government's work programme says. And if we are honest and look at what is planned for the future, he also intends to deal with this area. The special area that I have already mentioned is, of course, a transparent way of working, which is also reflected in these guidelines. I didn't want to make a specific case, but I will. In the paper I read, after this bill, someone can get a gift worth a billion dollars, and nothing will be sanctioned for it. I'm asking you nicely, but we all know the criminal code. A few crimes talk about these things. And secondly, this law makes it very clear that accepting any gifts is prohibited. If I finish. This area will be best regulated when those officials whom we can call top officials publicly disclose their assets and there will be no more dilemmas. This applies not only to the ministers and the Prime Minister, but to all of us. Once we put this information on the Internet, this big story will end. This is how I understand the government's opinion on this matter in this law. The first person to do so, as I read on the Internet, was a public information officer and I think that this would be followed in the amendment of this law. I will support him because we would otherwise extend the process of amending the bad law that we now have in force. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Since the LDS is running out of time, we have three more reported discussers, Mr Kumer, Mr Kovacic and, if necessary, a government representative, before the possible division of the remainder of the time. I give the floor to Mr. Kumer.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u91	Thank you for your word. The debates, particularly those of the coalition members, have convinced me today that I am even more determined not to accept the logic and the way in which the government and the government coalition abuse this national assembly for their personnel clearances by coming to this national assembly with proposals for legislative amendments. It started with the Law on Public Servants, continued with the law on RTV and today we are under the law on anti-corruption. This is not a good journey especially to suppress the corrupt acts that have been discussed today in this national assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u92	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mr Dimitri Kovacic.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u93	Thank you so much for saying that. Colleagues and colleagues! Among other things, the debate heard that the proposed law was intended to abolish the current commission, which was supposed to be an independent and apolitical body. Such a claim, in my opinion, is completely unrealistic and contradicted by the facts and, last but not least, the practice of the period of the previous government does not confirm this at all. As the previous government has made a clear decision on political principles and has practically set its own loyal people at all levels, so, judging by such experiences, it has also appointed the composition of a commission to prevent corruption. It is certainly more reasonable to expect that the Commission of the National Assembly, which is politically balanced, will be much more objective than the current Anti-Corruption Commission, which is an unbalanced and established by the former ruling coalition. Moreover, the actions of the anti-corruption commission so far raise additional doubts about the Commission's fair and objective work. Let us look at the last decision of the Anti-Corruption Commission on the amendment of the list of business entities which, on the basis of the law currently in force, must not be operated by state and local authorities, public undertakings, institutions and similar public entities, i.e. all those who are subject to the procurement procedure. This list contains three categories of legal entities. The most numerous list is where legal persons are not allowed to deal with anyone in the public sector, regardless of whether they are at national or local level. So, the absolute limit. There are 686 companies or legal persons on this list. The other group represents only one legal person, and that is not only to deal with the anti-corruption committee, but with everyone else, it can do business indefinitely. And the third group contains 6 legal persons who can only deal with the public sector by special permission from the anti-corruption commission. Well, let's see what it's like with this other group, where there's, like, just one legal person. It's about the Key Society, which was, I think, mentioned today. So this society can operate with everyone, except the anti-corruption committee. Well, and if we look at why this society is privileged and is able to operate freely with the state or municipal sector, while, in other words, this is not possible, we see that it is certainly the reason, at least in my opinion, for such privileged status of society as the Key in that society that the member of the administrative body is exactly the president of the anti-corruption commission and the member of the management body is his wife. This fact already tells me all about the so exposed and stressed expression of some about the independence and objectivity of the current anti-corruption commission. So I wouldn't be commenting much anymore. How can we trust the objectivity and independence of this Commission when the President himself is involved in the work of a legal person who is an efficient businessman and also serves at the expense of the State or its public undertakings and other institutions? If we look first of all at the fact that this society - as is evident from the question raised by Ambassador Majde Potrata - was received by the previous government, 22.7.2004, without a call for tender, a budget of 27 million tolars has been approved. So, the Key company has received 27 million tolars, in such a way that three ministries, the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of the Interior will contribute one third of these appropriations. It is therefore a matter where public procurement legislation has not been respected and, given the direct connection of the public official and also the related relationship with him, the matter could also be ripe for action by the anti-corruption commission itself and the Commission should actually take the matter under scrutiny. Whether it will actually act, let us ask ourselves, for then the Commission should act against its President, who, as a member of the management body of the Society, is said to be the Key that has received from the State without a call for funds from the State. The list of legal persons who are not allowed to operate with the State and the public sector due to legal objections to the non-compatibilities of this company does not contain the Key. It is only subject to the restriction that it should not deal solely with the anti-corruption committee, but with all others it can do business indefinitely. Unbelievable! Another interesting link is the business connection between the Key and Socius Advisory Company. The Key Company is an exclusive business partner for the activities society is engaged in. The first man of Socius is the famous Leonardo Pecklar, who is under criminal investigation because he is suspected of illegal financial transactions. And as we know, this same Leonardo Pecklar was considered to be a highly qualified person under the mandate of the previous LDS Government, because either he himself or through his company Socius had a very high trust, and as a result he was involved either in a business or supervisory function in the most beautiful number of state-owned companies. If we look at the list of anti-corruption committees I'm talking about, you won't find Socius there, which means that there is nothing limited about dealing with state or local entities - very interesting. All of this and not just that, do not talk about the fact that the existing anti-corruption committee is an independent and apolitical body, as some people say today. Absolutely not! It is a body which is already in principle and because of the way in which the composition is appointed subject to doubts about independence and apoliticality. As long as the composition of the body depends on the ruling coalition - and the ruling coalition in the previous term was the one that made the commission human resources - there will be no doubt about the Commission's policy, so the truth is the other way around. The current anti-corruption commission is already by definition political and is therefore subject to greater political pressures and other forms of illicit influences, which will make it difficult to guarantee independence. On the other hand, the parliamentary commission is also political, as it appoints the highest political body, but it is politically balanced, with the opposition having even the majority and the president, which, of course, gives it a much greater objectivity than we can attribute to the anti-corruption commission. In the end, that's all. The existing anti-corruption commission, the so-called Kosovo Commission, is no doubt a 'nozzobi tiger', which has some serious powers to effectively fight corruption because it has no legal powers. Its role is more or less focused on collecting documentation from a wide range of public officials, but what more can it do? So it's some kind of documenting, collecting, synchronizing and stuff like that. And the budgetary resources needed for this purpose are certainly not used rationally. In fact, in this sense, to be used to fight effectively against corruption. There are no special effects here and will not be detected under the current regime. The money spent would be much more prudent if it were invested in providing conditions for more efficient work by the authorities, which, under our regulatory framework, are actually competent to fight corruption. So these bodies are: the police, the prosecution, as well as the judiciary, where priority must be given to ensuring, to the greatest extent possible, a sufficient number of highly qualified personnel who, in an appropriate organisational form, will be able to become more effective than corruption so far. This, in my view, is a key task in the future, and we must put every effort into achieving this task. Including the provision of sufficient budgetary resources, the part of which can also be redeployed from that part, which has so far been earmarked without any clever result for the work of the 'breathless tiger', i.e. for the current anti-corruption committee. If we really want to, but not only verbally, fight against corruption, which is not really small in Slovenia, then we need to focus our energy more on making the competent law enforcement authorities in Slovenia effective. If the police, the prosecution and the courts are to carry out their mission properly and, among other things, effectively suppress corruption, then we have done everything we want and need. And we do not need any commission to prevent corruption to achieve this. However, we need, of course, a committee of the National Assembly to identify and act in the event of the incompatibilities of a public function with a gainful activity. And this will certainly be a commission with more confidence than Kosovo, a commission that obviously - I'm just closing the sentence - raises confidence only to the two parties of this national assembly, and to those who have also appointed and appointed the Commission in the previous term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Finally, I invite Mr. Secretary of State Marolt to the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u95	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to point out that the draft law under discussion is not a proposal for a law submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, but by you, Members and Members. Since I think, but it was unclear here during the debate, it was not clear. It is true that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not oppose the proposal of the law. It would be inappropriate for the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to oppose legislative initiatives by Members without intending to table its own legislative proposal. The issue of prevention and corruption is indeed set out in the Coalition Treaty, but the proposal for amendments to the legislation is not in the government's work plan for this year. The Government therefore gives an opinion on the proposal of the law from a systemic point of view concerning the proposed law in its entirety. The regulation under the existing anti-corruption law has a number of shortcomings, which have already been mentioned today. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not oppose the proposal because it considers that the law is conceptually appropriate. In the event that the law is included in the next legislative procedure, the Government itself will complete and remedy these shortcomings by means of a number of amendments. The solutions offered by lawmakers are, in principle, acceptable, and will need to be complemented in many ways. It is crucial that the existing anti-corruption law does not constitute an essential contribution to the prevention of corruption, since it is only preventive and the anti-corruption commission does not have any operational powers aimed at effectively detecting and investigating corruption-related crimes. Effective detection, prosecution and sanctioning of corruption crimes is a priority and responsibility of investigative bodies, prosecutors and final courts. It is a fact that greater effectiveness of concrete operational measures can be achieved by appropriate capacity-building and by greater expertise in the detection and prosecution of criminal offences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u96	Thank you very much. With this, we have exhausted the first round of debate. Since the time for discussion has not yet expired, I ask, does anyone still wish to discuss the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with Rule 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure? Then we'll give it the proper time. I will read all the applications: Gulič, Može, Grims, Štebe, Pecan, Weber, Žniideršič, Friend, Squeak, Germič, Sok, Zagorac. 12 registered. In view of the timing, of course, I will round up in doubt, so that each Member has 2 minutes. I give my word to Mr. Ambassador Gulic.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u97	Respected and respected! I used to be the principle of trust. I think I can keep her going. The fact is that Mr Drag Kos comes not only from two political parties, but from people, from our voters and voters, and that he accepts them much more than the Slovenian police. So you know what side of trust is that I'm not talking about a procedure that's probably nicer to all people here. With all this shouting, how much corruption has been in the past years, it is clear that all the commissions in the mandates from 1992 to 2004 have done nothing. And now this kind of commission is supposed to get things back in hand. I am convinced that the National Assembly Commission would not be able to do so unless, of course, the Members were professionalised in that commission and then became some kind of officials. Especially given how many of these applications are already coming to the Kosovo Commission. It's kind of stupid to justify how all the corruption issues have been revealed with the help of newspapers and electronic media. Indeed, there will still be these possibilities, there will still be research journalists doing this, there will still be some comment if they are allowed, and this certainly does not deprive the Commission of the powers that exist. However, I am sure that there is probably something that should be changed and deformed in the existing law. Everything has been said, much has been said here, in fact, also the mud of Mr Kos, and that I will not go into any such man, I rather stop.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u98	Thank you very much. I give my word to Mr Mohet.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u99	Thank you so much for saying that. The government must go for the fingernails, and it is weak to try to implement its greatest electoral promises through the law tabled by the opposition. It also seems to me that the government has not been honest with what its president said behind this counter when he says, "The government supports the transfer of powers to the Commission of the National Assembly and the composition of this Commission." This means, in other words, the hand washes, the crow does not rule out the eyes or the supervisor who controls itself, as it did in the sale of weapons, when the security and intelligence services of the Ministry of Defence controlled themselves, and you know what she found, 10,000 German marks of cash. Do you have to think about what people think about us and the Members in this country, say, in the Republic of Croatia, that I don't even mention the Russians at all? It seems to me that this weapon is also something that should come to an end and is also the above-sitting Mr Kos of the victims of these. If you look at arms sales, on the one hand, those who helped trade have been given very high functions now, and those who have discovered what it is have been disqualifications since they began to detect weapons. And I can say that I also find it insincere and hypocritical that Mr Janez Janša went to light a candle for the silver victims, and when Muslims used weapons most, he discovered weapons at the Maribor airport. I mean, there's a double morality in this. And the dual morality of governments is also that, in that 6th point, that it has passed the law on Members, but only the part that people liked is said to give, and this law has not done what it should have done, as far as corruption is concerned, about incompatibilities and other things. So this morality is double, and I say, by law, as it is, we are pursuing an attempt to detect corruption.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u100	Thank you very much. I would like to take the floor with you, Mr Magi. Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u101	Thank you for your word. Since, unlike some of my fellow Members, I never thought of it, at this time, I have checked the data on how, both in coordinating the necessity of RTV Slovenia and with Mr Ranc personally, the statement and the procedure. And so I can tell you firsthand that the story is not over by any means. An application for exceptional remedies has been submitted, which has already been adopted and is now in the hands of the Supreme Court, how it will decide. Whether it will judge Mr. Ranc or bring the matter back. And according to Mr Ranco's information, the prosecution has already reacted again. So to those who have made a huge reference to a procedural decision, I must say that this story is certainly not over and that all the warnings given by the Slovenian Press Association or their part on RTV Slovenia and the coordination of press unions remain quite current. And this is also the current dilemma that I have mentioned earlier, which is real press freedom and, above all, who controls supervisors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u102	Thank you. Mr Šteba has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u103	Thank you very much. I won't look back on the statement when someone connects the Srebrenica victims to illegal trafficking, even though it may have been a humanitarian arms trade. I would like to point out that it is important to build confidence in the institutions and bodies that are persecuting such types of crime - corruption in every functioning democracy. But all I would look at was something that might not have been pointed out. The current commission, as it has done business, has actually done what already exists in this country. With surveys of nearly 4,000 called officials, they collected data that could be collected from databases that exist in this country. We have been fulfilling and providing information that we provide at the same time as the income forecast or at other times and are mostly available to our institutions. That's ridiculous! This data was then beaten and processed by this bailout commission with all the expertise. Even if this committee warns of anything, it's a kind of warning. What citizens have at their disposal is essential, however, already in existing institutions. And these institutions should be better trained by this money, which we are now devoting to this committee, and also in terms of more effective action. This is the goal that we must defend and realize. In this way, I will support any improvement in the sense of non-derogation or unnecessary work. And the commission, as it has worked so far, has not justified this. This is how I support the combination of control in the institution of the National Assembly Commission.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u104	Thank you very much. I give my word to Mrs. Pecan.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u105	I have to say that today there is so much gibberish and, as it's called, "round your ass in the veggies," "round on the huddle" and so on, saying that I'm resisting and I'm slowly getting something very unpleasant about my stomach. I would just like to say this that this law is so clearly and clearly an orderly business - because we have heard here from the coalition, we have heard it clearly from the coalition, and it has been said not once, but at least ten times: that the commission run by Mr Kos should be dissolved because the government did not have this action in its programme, because it would have been very difficult to carry it out, but it hired another group of people, because it would have looked too gratifying if the coalition itself had done so. I think that when this law is passed - and I have no doubt that it will be adopted, it is evident that the plan is that all the logos that we have in this country must be cleaned - when this law is passed, but I tell you that it will not end beyond the borders of Slovenia. This will not end beyond the borders of Slovenia. Because I think it is also very well understood that it is necessary to open the door to all those people who have so far been in their opinion - this sublime that public and social property was available between 1992 and 2004 with rare breaks. [[...]] [[They warned us about the end of the debate.]] One click, I'll say, and now comes another click to open the door, saying she doesn't need any control anymore. [[...]] Here we have come to what is the essence of this bill. Let's open the door so others can come to the trough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u106	Thank you very much. I would like to take the floor with you, Mr Vebra.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u107	Thank you for your word. I think it is evident today that we are considering this law, which was filed by the Victory of Jelinčič, Lucky Friend, Bogdan Barovic, so members of the party that is supposed to be in opposition. It is evident that it is not a party in the opposition, but who is apparently trying to help the ruling coalition from the opposition to carry out all the tasks it has assigned. However, these tasks through this law are truly demonstrated in a way in which, in my view, at least I think, we should, in a mild sense, resist all four but not support such proposals by the ruling coalition. Customerism is already present, in the last period in all important institutions, authorities are recruited by people who are related or otherwise dependent on the proposers to carry out the tasks assigned to them. It's also about media control, because we're also in the middle of this. Today, we are faced with the fact that we are putting an end to the anti-corruption commission - that is, how to justify such acts. I don't think any government, not even in Slovenia, should allow that kind of work. That is why I would like to express in my debate a protest against such doing, and I think that this does not really lead Slovenia to the good development path that we so wish in the EU. I will oppose this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u108	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Mag's turn. Gnyardsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u109	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear fellow applicants! If it wasn't for a serious matter, you'd think you wanted to entertain us with this law. In fact, when I read it a few times carefully, it seemed to me like that story about Cefiz and the Butal cop. Since I do not have a lot of time to count off all the misplaced and poorly thought-out solutions that actually cannot be effective, I would like to point out in particular that in the law in which you want to remedy the shortcomings of the existing one, all of a sudden, everything you have promised in the introduction and in the intentions and in the main solutions. And they're not in there. It is particularly interesting that only in the transitional provisions did the right intention, namely to remove or abolish the so-called Kosovo Commission, appear. I don't know anyone as one of those experts who works there, but they've just started working, and we're gonna get rid of them, even though there's been a lot of talk for years about how to fight corruption. At the same time, the transfer of the archive to the committee of the National Assembly would help this matter, I quote, "because there will be no duplication of the task", the end of the quote. The proposer shall compare the work of one commission with the supervisory function of the other. Of course, there would be no more duplication, as the same Commission would prevent corruption, detect corruption, sanction corruption, and if someone were to scold, exercise control over itself and find that everything was fine and would go on for at least one term. It all smells like a supervisory body of a public function with management powers at the same time. And if I count down all the other things, I have to say that I'm surprised that anyone in the coalition, outside of it, or outside the government believes that the National Election Commission would be able to do this range of activities, even if the stars were involved in it in the sense of Members, because I don't know how to act on a model, as the Commission does, twice a week for two hours, twice a dozen hours or every day after [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u110	Please complete Mr. Žnidaršič.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u111	Seven hours ahead. [[...]] In short, it wouldn't work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u112	Thank you very much. I believe that, despite my generosity, there is still not enough time. It's Mr. Friend's turn. He's quitting. Thank you very much. It's Mr. Mag's turn. Squeak.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u113	A lot of words have been said. These words, of course, point to duality, duality, or differences between words and actions. Mr Janša spoke last October, 2003 saying that he supported the extension of the anti-corruption commission to the circle of officials, as is now covered by the fact that the data is public and should have sanctions. The task of the Commission is only one: to ensure control and record of the assets. It wasn't a poll! What we got home was a display and record of the situation at the beginning of the mandates and at the end of the mandates to see if there was a potential acquisition of officials during the term of office. Now, both the ruling coalition and yesterday's rulings, with the opinion it gave, are actually denying their past words. They go into actions that are just one. Actions that seek, through the support of the opposition party, to support a law aimed at abolishing an independent and apolitical body to verify that any acquisitions have been made by officials. The Commission is an independent independent user. Unfortunately, this is something that the National Assembly does not respect. Because if the National Assembly respected that, then in a discussion a few weeks ago, when we discussed the budget of this independent consumer, I would have allocated to this consumer as much of the resources as you need. And the idea you have is to prevent an independent body from controlling how you pay and who you pay for everything. And that, of course, is neither democracy nor a normal country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u114	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Germić to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u115	In view of what has been a very turbulent pre-election period for several years, when the content of the debates in this Chamber has often revolved around corruption in the previous term, we certainly expected an intensive active approach to this issue of the government in the new composition. I am sorry that you, the representative of the government, have also encouraged me to say in these two minutes that I am also trying to say that you are not the proposer of this law and that these are the representatives of the other parliamentary group, which is the biggest problem, at least in my opinion. Of course, I am joining all those who are talking about great misdirection in relation to this issue today. It is my opinion that such a law should have a perfect consensus in the National Assembly, because I am sure that Members should have a completely uniform view of the fight against corruption. Today, quite a few Members have made clear what the purpose is, including Mr Žnidaršič, before me, that I do not repeat this. I wish the messages from this house would be clear and clear. Today, by discussing this law, we have blurred these messages. There are also many opportunities for Members to answer individual questions that are of great interest to the public. We have also been asked many times about what our assets are, including from various media of a public character. And also by participating in these surveys, we will be able to say clearly and loudly that there is no problem in answering these questions. Of course, I hope that in such surveys we will be represented significantly more than we have been before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u116	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Sok to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u117	Thank you for your word. Today we have talked a lot about politics, but little about the content of this law. Let me add something to start with. There have been many acts of corruption in the past, gentlemen, but you have not established a commission until the end of the term of office. One of the biggest scams in Slovenia is certainly that a million Slovenians have lost their certificates. Where these values have come to an end, you will have to tell those who have been able to do so for 12 years. As for the law itself, which, of course, will still be a matter of debate and change, since we are at first reading today, this law has some good solutions in contrast to the existing law. In particular, sanctions are provided for which the previous two laws have not been so clearly recorded or have been lacking. Then, above all, there is one good solution that an official who has increased his assets needs to explain from what title, where. The next solution is that the Commission will also be able to verify the data from the official records and on this basis determine the credibility of the data. These are, I think, a better solution at this point. We certainly don't need two committees, and we all agree whether it will be one or the other. And also this idea that this commission should be led by the opposition - and also the opposition had a majority in this committee - is not so bad and is a good solution. And I think that, in the end, we will also come up with such a solution and that, in fact, those of you who have 12 years of power and are now in opposition can make the most of the corruption actions of the past 12 years actually explain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Mr Zagorac made his last statement.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u119	Thank you for your word. It is true that we have already exceeded the time of discussion, but it seems that everyone does not respect the time allocated. Let me start by saying that two things kind of make me very happy. The first is that the president has replaced himself and the second part of the debate on this law has gained hygiene, as some have insisted it is unhygienic, and I am glad that they are feeling much more hygienic and clean now. And the other thing that I'm very pleased with is that the rest of the opposition so much appreciates this law that even the government attribute it to it. But if we go into a little more specific things about the law now. Today we have heard a lot of things about how corruption needs to be tackled. I agree with that. We have also heard from one of the representatives of the previous government that they have done nothing for 12 years. That was said here behind this microphone. Of course, I could ask myself another question, why didn’t you do more? I will also mention an extraordinary session that took place last April and then in May. At that time, for example, you had the power to limit the time of the debate at this meeting, then to exclude the public and finally to oppose the decisions proposed by the opposition at that time. This is the duplicity you showed here today in front of all of us. And last but not least, that we could set up a commission earlier. Your serious intentions are also reflected in the statement made by the then Secretary of State. You will not believe why the Secretary of State for Privatisation was in 1994 when corruption and privatisation took place, I will say, they went hand in hand, said: "Corruption in Slovenia is not enough to require a law to prevent corruption." This was said by the then State Secretary for Privatisation, Mr Tone Rop. Today, everyone here is saying that there was no corruption at the time, that we did not need this law and that it was necessary to have a commission. We'd have a commission now that you've picked up everything you had to pick up. At that time, when corruption had to be effectively plagued and those responsible called, there was no need for a commission at the time.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u120	Thank you very much. I conclude almost five hours of debate. It is true that we have exceeded time in four minutes, but last but not least, the word parliament comes from the verb "parlare" to speak, so that it is undoubtedly better to speak more than less. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 14th agenda or no later than 21:00. I'm breaking this agenda. I'm moving to eight. PERIOD OF THE DAY - TO CONCERN THE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE LOCAL GOVERNMENT LAW - A SHORT PROCEDURE. At the same time, I thank the representatives of the Ministry of Justice, and I welcome the new Minister, Dr. Zhagar. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. That's why I'm giving my word to the Minister. Mr. Secretary, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u121	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Local Self-Government Act contains amendments and additions that will be able to address some pressing issues in the regulation of local self-government. Allow me to introduce you to the most important areas. The proposed law repeals the law on the procedure for the establishment of municipalities and for the establishment of their areas and lays down the conditions and procedures for the modification of the areas of municipalities and the establishment of new municipalities. According to the proposed changes, it will be possible to establish a municipality with fewer than 5,000 inhabitants, provided that the conditions for an exception are met, but not a municipality with less than 2 000 inhabitants. The procedure for changing the territory of the municipality or for the establishment of a new municipality shall be initiated by the State Assembly on a proposal by the Constitution of certain proposers of the law or of the municipal council. A preliminary referendum will be held prior to the adoption of the law implementing the amendment or setting up of the congregation. In the light of the amendments tabled to this chapter of the law, I should stress that the law ensures the participation of national communities in municipal councils regardless of the size of the congregation, so that any division of the territory of the municipality will not affect the composition of the municipal council where the national communities live. The government estimates that, in the exceptions set out in amended Article 13a of the Act, it also adds the minimum population criteria, which is 2 000 and more. This number of people, according to the Government's assessment, corresponds to a suitable basis for ensuring local self-government in the light of existing criteria for historical, cultural and geographical reasons. Another time. The proposed law provides, as a last resort, for the provision and legality of the work of the municipal authorities and for the protection of local self-government to be redefined by the discharge of the municipal council and the discharge of the mayor. Both measures included an article 90b of the Law on Local Self-Government, which was repealed by a decision of the Constitutional Court. The legislator was warned by the Constitutional Court that the reasons for the dissolution of the municipal council and the discharge of the mayor could be merely such practices as to impede the exercise of local self-government and obliged him to define both measures as exceptional and as a last resort and to specify the procedure and ensure legal protection. The proposed provisions define the reasons objectively so as to prevent arbitral decision-making and proportionate to the values protected and the weight of the conduct of the municipal authority. Both measures are proposed by the Government. However, the discharge of the municipal council or the discharge of the mayor is the responsibility of the national assembly, which cannot decide before calling on the municipal council or the mayor to abolish the found illegality himself and failing to establish that the measure of dismissal or discharge is proportionate. An application for constitutional review may be made against the decision of the National Assembly. If it is lodged, the municipal council shall be dissolved or the mayor shall be dissolved on the date of the publication of the decision of the Constitutional Court. Both amendments relating to the early dissolution of the municipal council or the discharge of the mayor contain slightly different solutions, as proposed by the government, in particular the decision-making body. I would like to point out that this novelty in the law has been given a thorough consideration, which has given rise to different variants. Finally, the government has decided that the proposed procedure in Article 90c is the most appropriate, since the decision of dissolution or discharge leaves the national assembly under a specific preliminary procedure. The novelty of the law is also that the mayor is appointed by the elected members of the municipal council, the mayor can also resolve the mayor. Such arrangements will prevent the impact of the issue of cohabitation between the municipal council and the mayor on the continuous exercise of the mayoral function required by the exercise of local self-government. Under the preceding provision, the amended provision will apply after the first regular local elections following the enactment of the law, except in municipalities where the mayors are not appointed. Thus, the law will not extend to the county councils of the municipalities in which there are no parishes, but will ensure that the mayors are replaced in the event of his absence or detention and that he serves as mayor if his term of office is terminated prematurely. The proposal for a law contains amended conditions for obtaining representative status which can be obtained by a newly established community association if at least 30% of the municipalities are members of it. At the same time, the legal status of the representative municipalities of Slovenia and the associations of the municipalities of Slovenia is no longer conditional on the fulfilment of the conditions. The law also strengthens the position of the interest union of municipalities as institutional forms of inter-ethnic cooperation. The law lays down the criteria for the salaries of the Director of Public Enterprises and also the representative of the founders of bodies in public undertakings by setting the criteria for the municipal council of the founder or the body of the founders of the municipality in the case of joint public undertakings. The salaries of directors of public enterprises, basics and allowances are limited to the salary of the mayor or that mayor of one of the co-founder's whose salaries are highest. I therefore propose that the National Assembly also adopt a complementary proposal for a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u122	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. At the same time, I welcome the Secretary of State with my co-worker. The draft law was also considered by the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development as a working body by the President and I ask the President, Mr Paul Rupar, to present the Committee's report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u123	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. At the 4th meeting of June this year, the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development considered the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government submitted by our Government to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for its consideration and adoption. The President of the National Assembly had previously sent the draft law to the municipalities, adding their opinions also to the municipality of Slovenia and to the association of municipalities of Slovenia and the Council of State. The Committee also took note of the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, which pointed in particular to the constitutional provision on the basis of which the law was intended to regulate judicial protection in the preliminary procedure for the establishment of municipalities. To examine whether new provisions in the draft law adequately and sufficiently govern the procedure for setting up and adopting municipalities and their areas, and the regulation of the status of the city and its legal consequences. In the second reading of the draft law, the Committee followed in particular the positions expressed in the decisions of the Constitutional Court on the regulation of the conditions and procedures for changing the territory of the municipalities and the reasons and procedures for exceptional measures by the municipal authorities, and the harmonisation of the law with individual other system laws. In doing so, he paid particular attention to the following questions in particular. The proposal that the area of municipalities where the Italian and Hungarian national communities live should not be changed in order not to endanger the ethical composition and relationship in this area. Criteria for the establishment of new municipalities, in particular the proposed criterion 2000 of the population as the lower limit of the number of inhabitants, when the municipality may be established, and the criteria for at least 2000 inhabitants in the event that an area in which a new municipality is to be established fulfils any of the exceptional conditions for its establishment. The fear that in this case a large number of new municipalities would arise was, among other things, the basis for the proposals to maintain the current legal criteria for the 5,000 inhabitants. The debate explained that the point of the local community is that it is capable of carrying out constitutional and statutory tasks, but when a community is capable of doing so it is not always linked to the number of inhabitants. With regard to the fact that the draft law reopens the possibility of arbitration, since it allows an area to fulfil only one condition and the other does not, it has been clarified that the amendment of the law seeks to ensure, in particular, non-discrimination, and thus to at least some extent to remedy the injustices arising from the arbitral decision of the State Assembly in previous mandates. The bill does not virtually drop under the criteria of 2000 inhabitants, but we know that municipalities were also established below 1000 or below 500 inhabitants. The fact is, in practice, many municipalities with this number of people are very successful, they work well and represent an extremely important development element. In addition, the law retains other criteria that will have to be taken into account when determining for the new congregations. In addition, the Committee dealt with the criterion for the establishment of municipal municipalities, then the deadline for the initiation and completion of the procedure for the establishment of municipalities, the provision or provision of greater financial autonomy for local communities or their smaller parts, the arrangements for the appointment of a mayor, the determination of the reasons and the procedure for the early dissolution of the municipal council or the discharge of the mayor. The debate was very long and very constructive. I propose to the National Assembly that it support the proposed solutions, i.e. the decisions of the Committee and adopt a proposal for a new law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u124	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Bojan Kontic has the floor to present the position of the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u125	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary, Secretary of State! Colleagues and colleagues! In the Socialist Group of Members, we expected comprehensive changes to the law on local self-government, which has undergone many changes since the adoption of the basic text. Regrettably, only partial interventions that solved individual problems or remedial deficiencies have always been imprecise and needed comprehensive treatment. That's the way it is this time. It is true, however, that due to the requirements of the Rules of Procedure, we are likely to receive a copy of the law. We expected a new text of the law, also because it was prepared in the previous term and it had already survived the general discussion. It was only necessary to take into account the essential comments and to reintroduce them into the parliamentary procedure. Even though we are not satisfied with these partial interventions in law, we have actively cooperated in the adoption process with the desire to improve the proposal. Our amendments on the parental committee were flatly rejected. In places where the Rules of Procedure allows us to re- table them and because hope dies last, we expect their vote today. Let me state some reasons that prevent us from supporting the law as proposed. The proposal releases the establishment of new municipalities and invites all interested local communities, which are more than 2,000 inhabitants, to mention that the amendment proposal is also proposed by the New Slovenia Group of Members, which proposes that even 1,000 people should establish their municipality whenever they feel that it is necessary. We have set up new congregations once in a mandate, and now we will do so through the entire mandate. But it is difficult to imagine the functioning of the local community, which will be divided into two parts by law and will hypothetically wait for its entry into force for three years. How individual investments will be carried out will depend, above all, on what they are made of, in the future split, the municipality comes into operation. With our amendment, we wanted to apply the rule that the number of 5,000 criteria to be met in establishing new congregations is without exception. We are opposed to the further fragmentation of Slovenia into new municipalities, but at the same time there is no desire or legal conditions for the establishment of the provinces, the so-called second-degree local self-government, are still not created. Many words were also made last year regarding the status of local communities. In the party of the Social Democrats, we are aware of the importance of the local communities, but we agree that the municipality, by its regulations, sets out legal transactions and their scope, which may be concluded by a narrower part of the municipality without the mayor's prior consent. The solution, which assumes that the Mayor of the Council and members of the Council are appointed by the Deputy Mayor, does not strengthen cooperation between the Council and the mayor. The solution so far, when the Council appoints mayors of its own kind, is, of course, more difficult, but at the same time, the two authorities somehow lead to cooperation. With regard to the premature dissolution of the world or the dissolution of the municipal council or mayor, we have again tabled an amendment to introduce a more appropriate solution after our assessment. The procedure is governed by a prescribed procedure whereby it is concluded that, in order to ensure local self-government and the legality of the work of the municipal body, it is appropriate for a specific municipality to dissolve the municipal council or to dismiss the mayor. In the event that it considers it necessary, it shall issue a decision allowing the appeal proceedings before the administrative court. The Supreme Court shall decide on a possible appeal against the decision of the Administrative Court within 30 days. As I said in the introduction, the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on local self-government does not provide comprehensive solutions, allows for the free establishment of new municipalities, but does not listen to representatives of cities who want to gain the status of the municipality. Our final decision will depend on the adoption or rejection of individual amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u126	Thank you very much. For the speaker stage, I invite Mr Martin Mikolić to present the position of New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u127	Thank you very much, Mr Vice-President, the distinguished Minister with colleagues, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The Law on Local Self-Government changes and complements those segments that have proved to be problematic in current practice or have not been sufficiently clearly defined. This framework includes the arrangements for the conditions and procedure for the change of the territory of the municipality or for the establishment of a new municipality. In view of the fact that this law now regulates the procedure for changing the territory of the municipality, a specific law regulating it is no longer necessary. With regard to the change in the areas of the municipalities, and in particular for the establishment of new municipalities, the law further defined the restriction relating to exceptions to non-compliance with the conditions for the establishment of a municipality. In the New Slovenia Group of Members, we would like to stress that the proposed lower limit of 2000 inhabitants as a condition for exceptions that meet the rest of the conditions is not our will. The coalition was a second opinion, and it did not support us that there should be no lower limit on exceptions. As the opposition, we have always supported the position that it is right that people in a certain area, if it is their wish, the club, by not meeting the conditions of the population and meeting the rest of the conditions in accordance with the legislation, give the opportunity to decide for themselves in their future. The practice so far has shown that very small municipalities are very successful in meeting the needs of their citizens. The proposed law also provides for extreme measures against municipal authorities that do not carry out their duties or carry out them illegally. The proposed arrangements shall contain grounds, proceedings and legal protection in the event of the discharge or discharge of the municipal authorities. The Constitutional Court ordered the legislator to define the measure of early dissolution of the municipal council and the early discharge of the mayor as a last resort and to define the procedure or procedure more precisely. That is why the government's proposal is also appropriate and we support it in Novi Slovenija, and it speaks of the reasons for the dissolution of the municipal council and the discharge of the mayor's conduct which interferes with the fundamental values of the Constitution, constitutional arrangements, and the conduct that precludes the implementation of local self-government. We know that in a number of congregations so far there has been a major problem with the appointment of parishioners. The proposed solution to the mayor's proposal from elected members of the municipal council is likely not to appeal to everyone, but it does give the highest guarantee that there will be no more cases of the municipality without the mayor being without the mayor, even without the mayor because it did not have it or was not appointed. In municipalities where municipalities are not appointed, it will be possible to do so as soon as the law is in force, and in other municipalities the amended provision will apply after the first regular local elections. We know that so far there have been considerable irregularities or inconsistencies in determining the criteria for determining the salaries of directors of public enterprises and directors or directors of the common public institution, public agencies and public funds, the founder of which is the municipality or several municipalities of co-founders. In our parliamentary group, we hope that the proposed criteria or restrictions on mayors' salaries will no longer occur in the future. In the New Slovenia Group, we believe that the existing law had to be amended, so we will also support it in the proposed content. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u128	Thank you very much. By the way, in line with the agreement of the College of Presidents, I would ask Members to hold telephone calls outside the Chamber. Thank you so much for understanding. I would like to take the floor by inviting Mr Mikhael Prevc to present the position of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u129	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and fellow Members! The proposed amendments and additions to the Local Self-Government Act will make it possible to regulate the pressing issues that have proved to be a problem in regulating local self-government and the functioning of municipalities. This framework of amendments and additions shall include the arrangements for the conditions and procedure for the change of the territory of the municipality or for the establishment of a new municipality, and the determination of the reasons and procedure for the early dissolution of the municipal council or the discharge of the mayor as a last resort to ensure the legality of the work of the municipal authorities and the protection of local self-government. It was also necessary to supplement and amend provisions which constitute an obstacle to the smooth functioning of the municipalities, to bring them together to perform their duties together and to join them in order to protect the interests of local self-government. In addition to the simplified procedure for setting up municipalities and changing their areas, the exemption criteria for setting the conditions for setting up municipalities are also clearly defined under exceptional conditions. Thus, it will be possible to establish a congregation with fewer than 5,000 inhabitants under exceptional and fulfilled conditions, but not less than 2,000. The law also addresses the question of discharge of municipal councils or mayors, in the event of a grave violation of a Constitutional Court decision or legislation. The exact criteria for the resolution of both the municipal council and the mayor are laid down. There is no significant number of municipalities in the Republic of Slovenia, which is why it is necessary to provide conditions for the appointment of these municipalities. In accordance with the new law, the mayor is appointed by the elected members of the municipal council, which he can also resolve. The proposed law clearly defines the procedures for obtaining the information necessary for the operation or information of municipalities and for information in the work where the holder of a particular procedure is a State. Under the new law, there is a basis for both the quality of the participation of the municipalities and for the integration of interests. The position of the Community interest association as an institutional form of inter-ethnic cooperation is also defined. The associations of municipalities can thus become legal persons with their accounts and thus an improved institutional form for more efficient implementation of community development projects at the level of the regions. On the basis of the criteria laid down by the Municipal Council of the Constituent or in the case of a joint public undertaking, co-founder bodies will be able to determine the salaries of directors of public enterprises. The salaries and allowances of directors of public enterprises shall be limited by the salary of the mayor or mayor of one of the co-founders of the highest salary. New in the law is also guaranteed the participation of national communities in municipal councils, regardless of the size of the congregation, and the conditions for obtaining representative status have also been changed. This status can be obtained by a newly established community association in which more than 30% of the municipalities are members. In the Slovenian People's Party, we will certainly support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u130	Thank you very much. For the speaking stage, I invite Vice-President Saš Pečet to present the position of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u131	Respectable present. In the introduction, I must say that we agree with the presentation of the position of one of the parliamentary groups, which correctly stated that the Law on Local Self-Government is one of those laws that has changed most since 1992 in our country, and has always changed only in areas that corresponded to the current authorities. So in the previous term, I think that we have witnessed nothing to change the law on local self-government, but always and only to those changes that have come in favour of either the minister or the government, and not because of the profession, but mainly because of the political issue. We also assess that this time the amendment of the Law on Local Self-Government is solely or principally due to the desire of the ruling majority to adapt some local communities to the geographical situation and to the number of municipalities, because according to our assessment, the proposed changes are proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or can be divided into four sets, so allow me to touch these four sets. So the first one we can call the possibility of territorial change of individual municipalities. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia or the competent Ministry replied that it merely offers a simplified way of reshaping individual municipalities. According to our assessment, on the basis of which we have come through the fact that there are already 190 and several municipalities too many for our country, both on the basis of the number of inhabitants and on the basis of the geographical criterion, we estimate that if we want to agree to a new article 4 under the amendment of the law, of course the first government of the Republic of Slovenia should be based on the question of what it means in practice to divide a part of the municipality into a new municipality. All those who have ever dealt with local self-government know that it is in practice that it causes the division of municipalities, both in the area of the divisional balance and in the area of the division of property, to say the least, by the way that economic public services are carried out through the concession of a direct establishment or public undertaking during the period of the division of the municipality, to the extent that it has not yet had a single concept. And this led to the fact that for years and years after their so - called independence or status as a congregation, no matter what size, they were not able to perform certain economic public services or the execution of such services to the old congregation, which means that they did not achieve the essence of what they wanted or followed, and that was the reason for the division of the individual community. According to our assessment, it would be far more reasonable to approach, at the very least, the legal matter or submarital matter, which would define the division of this common property in one form or another, in the exercise of this or any function, including utilities, culture, or social activities. According to our assessment, this definition in the novel is a lot of leaps and will not lead to anything other than the creation of any of the new municipalities that will territorially "grave" or adapt to the electoral law within local communities and, of course, to those political structures or to those political structures that actually want to take part in the next elections - but I think I will quote correctly if I quote one of the Februarys - "on the 200 stage" and, of course, on the 200 stage also reap fame. This was one of the speeches delivered by Prime Minister Janez Janša. Without such changes of laws, of course, it will not be possible for Mr Janša and, of course, you, Members of the Social Democratic Party or SDS, to win on the 200 stage after Slovenia. On the other hand, I would like to touch on another element that is created or that will result from the amendment of that legislation, namely, the discharge of the mayor or the municipality’s largest city council. According to my assessment, according to the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group, the legislative and executive branch of power, as well as the judicial branch of the authorities, i.e. all three components that will participate in the resolution of the main actors in the local community, in these cases the power over the democratic will reflected in the local elections. This raises the question of whether we can accept this only because of political interests, in cases where such measures are not taking place in order to protect legal protection. And yet, no more, three seconds to complete. [[...]] We do not support the law in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u132	Thank you very much. I would like to take the floor to invite Mr William Rezman to present the position of DeSUS.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Well, some decisions, acts of the Constitutional Court, some weaknesses that are evident, which could also be monitored in the public through media reports, and in particular some, so do we, current political ambitions and interests, are those that call for such a change to the law on local self-government. What I think about current needs is primarily about political space. And because, for some, it seems that this space is already occupied or too busy, it is actually necessary to create a new political space. This noi political space is, of course, a new local community. In our Group of Members, i.e. Members of the DeSUS, or we support the adoption of this Act, our votes will be in favour, but we think we need to draw attention to this. Although we also agree with most of the provisions of this law, at least the context is worth considering. And even later in carrying out what is now foretold, it is likely that we will need to be very careful. Therefore, we do not agree with the cities either, although once again it is necessary to say that the whole law weighs our individual concerns. We also read the law in the context of what we did yesterday, that is, when we passed the law on local elections, and it seems to me that it is impossible to separate these two laws. What raises some concerns is yesterday's announcement of an additional amendment, after the previous amendments have already been adopted, which can probably only go in the direction of changing what we have already decided. We estimate that if change occurs - now this amendment is still anonymous, we do not know it yet, we can only guess what it will be - so we estimate the potential amendment as a flaw, if it is of course the one we fear it will be proposed. In general, if we were to be asked whether the local community's legal affairs should be regulated as set out in the bill, our answer is yes. If we ask ourselves whether representative associations of congregations should be arranged, our answer is yes again. If we ask ourselves whether it is right to allow sometimes the absolute will of individual mayors or municipal councils to be sanctioned, then our answer is yes again. If we are talking about giving mayors slightly more competence in choosing their sub-districts, the answer is yes again. I myself have this personal experience when those who wanted to propose the parishioner's proposal to tie up more than half the budget allocation rights. You can imagine how the mayor would have worked if someone for political reasons had already cut his budget in half. With regard to the salaries of directors, the proposal also receives our agreement. The main concerns are that this law is now a possible additional opening for the establishment of too many new municipalities. In the DeSUS Group, we have always had doubts about this. We keep these concerns, and we hope that our fears, that these congregations and the fragmentation of them will no longer be realized, for by now we have dozens and dozens of municipalities that do not reach 1,000 inhabitants and we have only 300 or more inhabitants. That's not the right argument to set up. The reason that some small congregations have now developed more rapidly is that they themselves have not been able financially, of course there is no real reason to support it. It's some kind of extra pour into those environments that themselves weren't capable of getting on their own feet. We will give our vote in favour of amending the law in the parliamentary group, while at the same time we will be vigilant when we have to crush proposals for fragmentation so that we do not give our consent across the board.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u134	Thank you very much. For the speaking stage, I invite Mr Robert Battelli, Member of the Italian National Community.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u135	Thank you very much. At times, we had in mind and acted on the need for legal certainty of citizens. The characteristic of local self-government in our country is the absence of clear criteria for the establishment of municipalities. And if we take a good look at all of the legislative changes in this area or almost everything, they usually went this way, so that these conditions would be set again and again, or that these conditions would change. And it is no coincidence that it happens, as I would say, almost regularly every four years as local elections approach. This is probably the story of some ambitions of political elites, which also spill over on the coast and are linked to very strong material interests, as the coast is a real hunting ground for expensive properties, especially land. The municipality is the base cell of the country in a way for many things, not only for the purpose and change of the destination of land, but for primary schools, for libraries and for a variety of other things. So in the case of the national community it is not just representation in the municipal councils, and so on, not least we are represented everywhere, but the governments are driving by and the mechanisms are running away, how then in reality all these institutions of representation are actually destroyed. In the case of the national community, it is a matter of maintaining the basis on which we can discuss the exercise of rights at all. And it's not about protecting and protecting mechanisms that are supposed to depend on someone's will, but it's a structural issue, and it's an obligation for everyone to take certain things into account. Last but not least, one of the criteria is so easily written down for the establishment of congregations, including nationalities. So it is necessary to say what this means when the congregations are being established. For this reason, I ask the assembly to reflect on this matter, given the fact that we have been dealing with the permanent security of the national communities from the very beginning - and I will use such an expression at last - by "thinking" everything; from local self-government, education, culture, radio television, media in general, associations of national communities and their roles - they did not want to register years and years, societies, at least in the case of the Italian national community and so on. There are also international agreements and border issues and border disputes and all of this is an unbearable pressure and it is likely that it is possible and also necessary to make an end and stop the ball, to cover the breath and find out what is really going on with these people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u136	Thank you very much. I would like to reiterate my invitation to Mr Paul Rupar to present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party this time.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u137	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the Committee's proposals, that is, the law, even though we must admit that at least in setting up new congregations, things are not the way we wanted them to be, and so would we. However, we must recognise that coalition coordination is also a matter to be taken into account and that we must look at our partners by being complex with them. In fact, the establishment of new congregations is the correction of the injustices that we have done to many in the past, that is to say, by buying, bartering, perhaps even by negotiating, and by establishing municipalities where there was actually no conditions for their establishment, but this negotiation and buying have, however, brought the establishment over all the legal bases, beyond the criteria, thus beyond all legal standards. And of course made so-called, at least to my mind, a semi-legitimate congregation. But they're working. They are established, but the law that we have now formed partially corrects or gives legitimacy to these congregations. Why the functioning of the congregation, the small congregations, well? Because the Law on the Financing of Municipalities, which is still in force, has given the possibility of much greater development and better funding, you already want, on the head of the population as well as on other municipalities. Interest in stopping municipalities will be possible, or to stop the establishment of municipalities, when these financial bases and interests will no longer exist. But it is not always just the desire to establish a congregation where there is a larger community, such as the congregation, has forgotten the development of individual parts of its congregation. Very often, or as often as possible, the reason for the proposal to establish a congregation is the personal interest of individuals who want to become local February to the best of their ability not to tell any mayors. However, this is certainly not acceptable in Slovenia. Local self-government is a living matter and needs to develop in or in life. Certainly, however, life is not one individual or a political party who wants power only on the basis of various speculations. Well, of course, we change a lot of other things in the law. Among them in the field of local communities. So our will would be to end the subsidiary responsibility. Unfortunately, it is not yet possible because of common agreements and higher interests, but we agree that there must be no more abuse on this basis. Therefore, it is the right decision for the municipal authorities to control the work of co-signing all financial transactions in local communities, so that it does not happen that a local community without a financial basis, without proper decisions, builds, I do not know whatever else, and then leaves that unfinished community to build and complete the municipalities. That is why, of course, it is necessary to change such municipal budgets, to seek additional money, which, of course, sometimes leads to a virtually impossible situation. In the Slovenian Democratic Party we predict further changes to local self-government legislation. This is supposed to happen this year. Above all, this moment has not been possible because of the deadlines or open articles we are changing at this time. Well, the deadlines, the deadlines, the setting-up of the congregations, required these changes. This is what needs to be done so that we can, on a legislative and legal basis, establish and give an opportunity to those who are waiting for new congregations or to start proceedings. Let me also mention that there were many amendments and very many opinions about the discharge of the mayor and the municipal council, but we were of course of the opinion that everyone who made the proposal, in particular, looked at their local level, and those who spoke about the discharge of the mayor, of course, did not look beyond their own framework, rather than at their own borders of the congregation. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Of course, it was absolutely identical or better said - everyone was looking for their own interest. It seems right for us to still be decided by the National Assembly, which is the highest legislative and legal institution in this country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u138	Thank you very much. As the last Member of the Council, Mrs Cvetka Zalokar Orazem will present the position of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u139	Dear Mr. Secretary, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The area of local self - government has been reformed more than ten times in the last decade, bringing into the congregation great instability, infertility in form, and not content and type of problems. This continues and increases. At the LDS, we believe that it would be time for us to end the reform of the municipalities, their continuous division and focus on linking and building local self-government, that is, regionalisation. Therefore, we believe that it is a particularly bad solution and a message of amendment to the law to open up an unrestrained, permanent possibility of establishing new communities, which, even after the warnings of the legislative and legal service, can lead to a lot of embarrassment in practice, as for example, the new municipality will be established and then will not work throughout the term of office, as it will wait for the call for elections. This also undermines the established principle of limitation to 5,000 inhabitants, as it decreases to 2,000 over the exceptions, so in our opinion in the coming years we can expect the establishment of dozens of new municipalities and, of course, well-known stories of contention in the division of property, delays in development projects, judicial justification of succession and so on. The solution is also unreasonable due to new costs, increased red tape and financial consequences. We are not opposed to taking into account the will of the population, but it is necessary to insist on reasonable criteria for the number of people, which is certainly 5,000, on the viability of the new municipalities and not least on the ability to self-financing. And when the coalition has shown exceptional understanding and restored all possibilities for further fragmentation of the municipalities, it is said that because of past errors and inconsistencies, which would also justify similar conduct in the future, it has on the other hand completely undermined the possibility of establishing new municipalities, although most already established also do not meet those criteria in the law. Many who have failed in the past would, in fact, have better conditions and meet these conditions. Congregations such as Radovljica, Piran, Domžale, Krško, Jesenice, Trbovlje to open up these options have not responded and have no answer. The situation will be such that non-urban, rural environments will establish new and new municipalities, urban and urban environments will not be given the opportunity to establish new urban communities and develop. Amendments to the law also set out the reasons and procedures for the discharge of municipal councils and mayors. In doing so, it should be pointed out that the mayors will be sanctioned disproportionately sharper and more consistently than all other officials, since, for example, despite the failure to implement the decisions of the Constitutional Court in Slovenia, no one has yet been resolved. Nor is it due, for example, to the illegal possession of property, which is not, to say the least, limited. It is true that these offences are objectively proven, but it is also true that such very broad violations are only legal for the mayors. In doing so, the risk of exploitation and politically conditioned discharge or perhaps even the horror of mayors is even greater because Parliament is to decide on a proposal from the government, where it is difficult to talk about objectivity, since it is linked to every single majority, policy and party. We can therefore expect political discharges from the mayors, as the procedure for the discharge of mayors elected in direct elections should be similar to those of similar functions, for example with the office of President of the State, in our opinion, transferred to the judicial branch of power, i.e. to a constitutional or administrative court. We are also proposing our amendment to such a resolution. We will not support such solutions in the LDS Parliamentary Club in amending the law, but we will support the amendment by the MP of the national community.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u140	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and amendments tabled, to be carried out on the basis of the review of the amendments of 12 July 2005 [[You have a review ahead of you.]] . In doing so, I would like to point out that today we have received an amendment from the Italian and Hungarian national communities concerning Article 2. I am opening the debate on Article 2 and the amendment of the Italian and Hungarian National Communities' parliamentary group, as it is said, with today's corrections. Who wants to discuss it? Nobody? Mrs. Pechanova.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u141	The proposer of this amendment would like to ask if he can explain to me how it can be established - do not mind me reading - "the purpose of endangering the ethnic composition and relations of these areas". In fact, I do not imagine that it is possible, for example, to propose a change in the area of the municipality, a group of citizens to write that this is because of changing the ethnic composition and the situation in these areas, then the amendment could be so, "not allowed to change so that ethnic composition and relations in these areas are threatened." But if we write "intention", of course no one will be able to prove that this purpose was, it is roughly the same as when they want to show the purpose in court, to prove the purpose of fraud, and in 99% of cases they cannot prove it.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Mr. Battelli, you will be of service to my colleague, the Pecani. Yes, please. The word is yours.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u143	I thank you for this question and it is interesting how Mrs Pečanova has come to the same conclusion as I have. And that's why I corrected the amendment so there wouldn't be any misunderstandings. I repeat, now I don't know, President, whether I can speak directly, given that I'm enrolled in the debate on the amendments or [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u144	Undoubtedly. You may proceed with the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u145	In short, as can be seen from the explanation, this is not only about the exercise of the rights of national communities, but it is a prerequisite which must be in order to be able to talk about it at all, because life situations are such a nature. In view of the size of the congregations, at least on the Coast, it is possible to expect the dismemberment of these congregations. Here, however, a mechanism is put in place that does not allow this dismemberment, but makes it possible to consider setting boundaries for the new congregations. And it also protects the position of the national community itself, so that about ethnic change down there, we can all turn to the institute for a newer history to find out what actually happened and why and what is still going on. And I repeat, here we must all be equally responsible, at least to examine these matters in their facts and also to identify them through legislation, through measures, through proposals made to the government and through control, which Parliament is supposed to carry out over the executive work of the authorities, to find out how to reverse certain trends and how to make it possible to enjoy the legal security of these citizens, who, in general legal uncertainty, have this particularity that they are members of another ethnic community, another culture, another language, another language such as the majority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Anyone else with regard to Article 2 and the present amendment with correction? Mr. Secretary, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u147	Thank you for your word. I would just like to point out that this law does not affect the functioning of national communities and that we believe that the solution to Article 5 of the Law is adequately resolved as regards the issue of national communities. And once again, this law does not interfere with the solution so far, and I see no reason why we should change it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Mr. Battelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u149	I believe in your best intentions, Mr. Secretary, but the fact that it's not affected is of course not true. Because if the condition for the establishment of municipalities is 2 000 people this time and this process is so liberalized, it is also affecting not only the possibility of exercising rights, but also into the ethnic composition itself and into the ethnic relationship in a given territory. That's the way it works.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u150	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. And Mr. Stebbe.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u151	Thank you very much. I would like to point out that in Slovenia we have, in addition to national, linguistic, ethical and other minorities and groups, and are provided with appropriate rights in other regulations and in the Constitution. Otherwise, I very much understand the concern of my colleague Battelli, who here highlighted national minorities or minorities, which are particularly defined in the Constitution. I believe, however, that in this law on local self-government, practically for the formation of municipalities, there should be no harm or intentional establishment of new municipalities or decommissioning municipalities in order to perhaps create some minor rights for all minorities that are possible in Slovenia. While this concern is understandable, I think it is difficult to incorporate it into this law and perhaps concern is overemphasized. And I don't think such an amendment is even part of this marriage. And if such deliberate conduct were to occur, even for any minority in Slovenia, we should sanction it, if not otherwise, here in this national council where we would confirm it. Such an explicit introduction of such a provision into this law now, I do not think it is appropriate, although with all my heart I understand the concern of my colleague Battelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u152	Thank you. Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u153	Thank you very much. So I also missed this debate, but when I look at this amendment, I actually have one question. However, the national community is not bound to the territory of the individual congregation, the national community lives at the end of the carriages in several municipalities, of course, I do not know about Italian, but if I take the Hungarian national community, then of course it lives in several municipalities, and this could, of course, mean that the existing law in some way, as it goes, is understood from the dictates of this amendment, that this national community is, then in some way, already divided, if it were to this end that the entire national community must live in one congregation. The second is the case with regard to the Municipality of Koper. There, however, I think that there is still an unfulfilled decision by the Constitutional Court and, of course, if we accept it, I may be misinterpreting, but if we adopt such an amendment, it would mean that this law would be contrary to the decision of the Constitutional Court that exists, so that we will probably have to implement the decision of the Constitutional Court once we have the will of the population. And for this reason, of course, in New Slovenia, we certainly understand that the proposaler wanted to introduce a positive principle into this law, which is why we cannot support this amendment at this time, and we certainly would not have agreed that any area of the municipalities would have tried to share with a view to jeopardizing or weakening the ethical composition and the relationship in this congregation. I think that so much constitutional security in this country in our constitution is certainly that it cannot come to this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Mrs. Breda Bakan.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u155	Thank you so much for saying that. So when we talk about how the national communities, which are just a constitutionally defined category here in Slovenia, would say that in the area of fragmentation and thus disorganisation of the uncoordinated performance and conduct already in the northeast of Slovenia, to the detriment of the Hungarian national community, was much done to the detriment of the Hungarian national community - I stress that no one would have misunderstood - when Prekmurje was divided into a crowd of municipalities, or I do not know how many of them. The fact is that the consequences are getting more and more familiar with us now, because we who live in the southwest of Slovenia are not currently following this. In Slovenia Istria is a fact that part of each of the municipalities, of all three, is completely Slovenian, but most of it is mixed, ethnically mixed. Here I must say that I attach to my colleague Battelli, although we do not agree many times, but in this case he is absolutely right. The fragmentation of municipalities in Slovenia Istria in the area where the Italian national community is located would harm the Italian national community. I would point out that it would be harmful to her because this would further weaken the national community in one way or another. There would be the formation of smaller groups, which would then be harder to reconcile and act uniformly at the level of Istrian, the name of the Coastal Self-Governmental National Community of Italians. I didn't reject the amendment when I told you about that purpose. I agree that it was repaired correctly. I will personally support him because I think the goal is the right one. The fact that the side effect is this, here I have to say that I am never alone and will not support the division of municipalities because this makes the river 'divide et empera' real. I cannot support any division of municipalities here, but even less when it comes to jeopardising the interests of the Italian and Hungarian national communities.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u156	Mr. Ficko.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u157	Thank you very much. This amendment, in such a content as is written here, actually prevents what you have adopted in the past in this National Assembly, not to the detriment of the Hungarian national community, as you mentioned in the past, but to the benefit of it, I could even say. For this reason, in Prekmurje, two very small municipalities were created from ethnic interviews, one because the Hungarian community separated from the Slovenian municipality of Šalovci - Hodoš and formed the municipality of Hodoš. The second reason why the Slovenian population would be separated from the Hungarian population in Kobilje. And for this reason, this amendment is a negation of what you have achieved in the past. Otherwise, if we accept this amendment, taking rights in one part of Slovenia to citizens of Slovenia, i.e. in a national mixed area where, in theory, no new municipality should be established in this way, because I also do not know how likely it is to maintain the minority ratio by establishing two new municipalities and the Slovenian population in those two new municipalities. There is also one person across the street who is already breaking this relationship, which is what this amendment envisions. For this reason, I also object. But I'm already at the board meeting, and I tripped into that word "intention" because it's not logical in the amendment. I don't fully support such amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u158	Thank you. Mr. Sok. A replica? Did you misinterpret it? [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] That's not enough.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u159	I also wanted to be a replica of Mrs Pečanova's statement because she said that the multitude of municipalities meant harm to the Hungarian national community. Of course, I cannot agree with that. You should, if you have stated this, in some way prove this in an argument. I think these small congregations that have been formed in the Pomurje area are very successful. And at this point, you have no proposal to unite two of these smaller congregations. There is no such proposal. Hungarians live in several congregations, not just one. But if we wanted them, so as I could understand you, to get them into just one, but that would mean some kind of segregation, that is, the separation of Hungarian and Slovenian life in this part. Actually, that's not what we want. The desire is to live and create together, but not to actually create an opposite situation. That the Hungarian community, like the Italian community, has problems mainly in the sense that the census has reduced the number of others and others - last time I was on the National Community Commission, where I could attend this debate - it should be acknowledged that the census has also reduced the number of Slovenians and that there are economic problems in the north-east of the country, it is said, both for Hungary and Slovenia, for the whole area. And whatever we want to save in this direction would be in the best interest of both. We can't say that we're going to solve things economically by helping just one and the other -- we're going to say, to everyone who lives there. The rural problem is for representatives or the national community of Hungary as well as for Slovenia, that young people are moving out of the area and that this is also why the number of people and others in these areas is increasing. So these are problems that have a completely different origin. Once again, I say that such an amendment, despite good intentions, could ultimately be a negative experience and a way out that is not something we want at this point in time.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Anyway, I missed this discussion a little bit, but I heard part of it. I must say that, in fact, I do not fully understand the amendment, or what was further said in the debate by colleague Breda Pecan, that the division of municipalities in northeastern Slovenia has been done to the detriment of the Hungarian national community. I don't know. That's what I think. And that it was in the service of the "divine et empera" policy, I think it was a rude instigation at the expense of Slovenia and also unconstitutional speech. In fact, I know that the Member of the Hungarian National Community personally collected signatures for the establishment of the Hodosh Congregation, which I have also signed and supported. This is Mrs Pozsonchev's conviction that she was doing to the detriment of her own national community - what you have just said to Mrs Pečanova. And I wonder with what knowledge you're performing here today, already in the previous corruption law you're there defining what economic crime is, what corruption has shared. The only thing you haven't said in this kind of knowledge is that when the insular community sold parcels to state secretaries, it was corruption or economic crime. Did you indict any of them or just file a complaint? You never told me if it was from the know-it-all. Now I also agree with some of the potential divisions in small municipalities, that if in Slovenia - small municipalities in Slovenia - it is possible that the whole territory would not have the same rights, equal opportunities and equal starting points. I don't understand why an interest, say, one national community would be substantially different from the other. I am, as I said, a Member's effort to remember and support it, so in this light to paint and to flaunt, as if it were a policy of "divine et empera" or as an attack on a minority, it seems to me that it is actually unstated and confused with reality and attacks that can then be used somewhere across the border against Slovenia. I also agree that the adoption of such an amendment would be contrary to the applicable decision of the Constitutional Court. Perhaps it is in the interest of someone to give an argument to Austrian nationalists who challenge the application of the Austrian Constitutional Court decision on topographic inscriptions in Koroška. Of course, the German nationalists are using it to exploit it, this argument. And why would they continue to produce such things to me, I really don't know, and because of this I think it is my suspicion that both minorities are absolutely positively discriminated against and continue to be protected, but not to put something like this in my mouth or on me, a Member of this National Assembly, and Slovenian State Policy, which is absolutely contradicted by positive legislation, the positive policy of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Mr. Steba has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u163	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I respond only to the thinking that the size or minority of congregations, how small the congregation is, or the fragmentation of congregations, as you like to use this negative meaning, is an expression for the formation of new congregations, that this in some way also affects the protection of minorities. I really don't see any argument here. If a minority in Primorska connects the Italian nationalities communities to the coastal community, I do not see any argument that the size or smallness of the municipality would affect the protection of minorities. Even vice versa, there may even be the formation of such a congregation that wants to be a congregation. In fact, I am against restrictions in such a clever way with the number of inhabitants, but if a community wants to work and has proved that it can work, let's say as a local community, why such a community would not act as a congregation and perhaps even create a community, where that minority works in a more complete and creative way. Not because of it, as a minority, because it is protected from other aspects, but as a community that creates certain conditions for the life of one, say, such a community that I do not say congregations. And I really don't see the real arguments and I reject such opinions as that the fragmentation of municipalities is negative for life in Slovenia. In fact, small congregations have proved that they know how to turn money over and over, and they are better aware of the needs, so that most of these minority congregations need much more help from outside than the country to make up for the delays. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Mrs. Pecan, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u165	Thank you. First, what I would like to ask my fellow Members to stop lying. That he stopped lying. The municipality of Izola has not sold any land to any State Secretary or State Secretary. Well, whoever says so should prove it! She didn't sell it, and if she sold it, she'd sell it at auction. So please don't twist the truth because it's called home lying. The second thing I would say is that I did not say that the fragmentation of municipalities in northeastern Slovenia was harmful for the municipalities. I said it was harmful for the Hungarian national community and for which I have evidence. The evidence is in the media, in letters, some of the presidents of municipal, national, Hungarian national communities, etc. So I can read exactly what it says wrong, but it can be understood from a complete context that the harmful consequences of dividing the Hungarian national community into a number of municipalities are the harmful consequences, because they simply have not found any cohesion element that they would link to each other. In Cyprus, Isola and Piranu, however, the Italian national community has its coastal community long before these municipalities were established before the reform of local self-government. So that the consequences of the division of national mixed areas of these three municipalities cannot be talked about and we do not know, but we can assume that it is fairly reasonable, on a sample we see in northeastern Slovenia that it is harmful. And finally, I'd like to say this. I wasn't talking about my previous marriage as some big expert. I was talking about how I felt. Knowing something about certain things is only because we have already begun to work on the integrity plan in our congregation. Here I would ask if you are so honest as to admit that some things, however, we also know those who are in opposition. And with regard to my behaviour and knowledge in the field of local self-government, however, I could be admitted that for the first time, in the mandate of 1992-1996, I led a large part of the mandate of the Commission for Local Self-Government and had much to do with the creation of new municipalities there. And here I would like to challenge that we have succeeded, as among them is me, to establish the congregation of Hodhos and the congregation - I do not know which has already been mentioned - where the Hungarian community is in the majority. Thus, surely Breda Pečán, a member of the National Assembly, never and never supported the establishment of small congregations and the division of congregations, ever. It is said that my success was not that small congregations were formed in Prekmurje, Styria, Ptujska Polje and so on. Third thing I'd like to say. And eight years of County, after all, you learn a lot of things. I think a man is learning as long as he's alive, and I hope that the last thing I'll learn is when I'm on my deathbed. I'm really gonna be open my whole life to new and new knowledge. I'm afraid you can't tell me that I'm being smart when it comes to local self-government. I know a lot about this, and I can probably say without any doubt that I know a great deal, much more than anyone in this room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u166	Mr. Horvat Joseph has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u167	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Mr. Secretary with a co-worker! I'm afraid I can't support this amendment. I am convinced that the general Slovenian policy is such that it has a delicate attitude towards the Hungarian and Italian national communities. This is my experience, because in some ways with Hungary I live and my modest experience in acting on the Nationality Commission. I am sure that no legislation relating to local self-government will threaten, and I hope to say so, it will not endanger national minorities. However, I strongly object to the statement made by Mrs Brede Pecan, a fellow Member, who discussed somehow such that the fragmentation of Prekmur to small municipalities was detrimental to the Hungarian national community. I object to that. This is the defamation of any policy, past or present. And I am very pleased to have a fellow Member, Mrs Maria Possonec, who probably knows the best way to make the effort to establish such congregations and those congregations where members of the Hungarian national community would most easily live. I actually have to stand in front of my fellow Member, Marie Possonec. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u168	Thank you very much. Mrs. Possonec, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u169	Thank you very much. It could be a replica. Indeed, Mrs Breda had nothing to do with small congregations. However, I also say that I admit to her that she was actually the best chairman of the committee or commission for local communities. She had nothing to do with the congregations. I blamed the congregations with the help of the then opposition. And why am I grateful to them? Because the people of Hodosh, for example, are the smallest congregation and also in Dobrovnik, have shown that this is a new quality and have done enormous things that they would never do and get if they stayed where they were. And there's one more thing. What's written in newspapers and letters is two presidents. We, too, have a pomura national community and someone disagrees with its president. So you can't generalize and even with small congregations. Yes, small congregations do, and whenever it is necessary to vote for any small congregation, I would always vote in favour with full responsibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u170	Thank you very much, Mrs. Poxon. Mr. Rezman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Well, what we have recently demonstrated in Parliament could also be called escapisms. We're real artists for talking about everything else, just not what we should be talking about. In fact, it's taking on another, blind and unnecessary track. If anyone would like to be a master in this, let us advise him to come to parliament where we can give him free seminars - sitting on the balcony and listening, and he will learn a lot about escapisms. Well, now I want to get things back to where it started. If I understand correctly - I do not say that I understand correctly, I am conditional on this - the representatives of minorities have made a very mild proposal to amend one thing that actually means the guardian of their interests. You didn't convict anyone that someone was trying to get them in advance right now. But when something is put on a new set, it is not possible to determine everything until the last precision and infinity in advance. And when that is not possible, there may be consequences that were unpredictable. And against these unpredictable consequences, they have probably proposed some kind of security guard that could have protected them in this sensitive minority theme, and also vulnerable ones. And if we are not able now to please such a benign one, so to speak, an amendment that does no harm to anyone - because I have not been able to see who would be harmed - then I wonder whether we are doing the right thing. But we, Members of the DeSUS Group, will support this minority amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Mr. Gantar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u173	Mr Vice-President, I have read this amendment, and I also know that the LDS Group is supposed to support it, and I have nothing against it. However, I ask, or if you want, because you can't actually tell me, I think I will comment on the amendment, what the drafters, the honourable Member and the Member of the Hungarian, the Italian national community wanted to say. I have to say, I'm a little confused, just like I read it. If we go from some social geography or sociology of space, we'll know about a simple fact. Smaller than a territorial unit, it is more generally homogeneous, almost without exception. So if we divide a larger unit into smaller units, these units will be structurally, culturally, ethnically, if it is an ethnic criterion, they will be more homogeneous. In this case, the division of the municipality of this homogenisation simply cannot be avoided. Not only this ethnic but also others, cultural, social, professional, even old. And this fact cannot be avoided. Whether we want it or not, I don't know. As far as I am concerned, I think that national communities, ethical communities and all other communities must be protected throughout the territory covered equally and by the same mechanisms and without discrimination. The municipality means a clear change in the ethnic composition and homogeneity of these areas. I don't know if that's what you were gonna say or not. I don't know. I must say, I will try to discuss this with another amendment. I think that the decision for some very small municipalities, including under 2,000 people, was good and right, but that the general trend, which reduces the number of municipalities and municipalities, was generally wrong. And I'll try to explain it later if there's a chance. In this context, I clearly support solutions that limit the fragmentation of municipalities in general, especially if they have homogenisational implications. I don't know whether they want it or not, in short, I'm separated from this amendment, although we can finally support it if both representatives of both communities think it's good and necessary. But I'm not sure it's true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u174	Thank you very much. Mr Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u175	Thank you very much. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u176	Mr Jerovšek has the floor. If I had a replica, I'd give him a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u177	I am pleased that some of the things that have been presented here, with the objective of a specific policy, are also being clarified as part of this debate, which, as I have already mentioned, is not state-owned but serves certain specific objectives, special interests. In this respect, I am pleased that the colleague, Mrs Maria Possonec, confirmed the maliciousness of the allegations made by her colleague, Breda Pecan. And I am also firmly convinced that by allowing some of the border municipalities to form, we have accelerated the development of these places, as the fellow Member has also stated. Last but not least, it is not a practice only in the border area, but also elsewhere the results of some municipalities, including smaller ones, are envious. Anyone who is guided by a well - intentioned purpose cannot deny it. Because of this, as I have already said, I do not understand certain things, but Mrs Pecan can also say in relation to reading newspaper reports that I can also be certain that I may not have understood anything about the Izola municipality, as it is not about the Hungarian national community. I agree with you, however, that what you have stated was not sold parcels in Isola at the auction, but I agree that there have been some shortcuts and that there are also some shortcuts that some people have received. Yes, I agree with you, because you said you weren't at auction. Thank you very much. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u178	Excuse me. [[...]] [[A voice from behind.]] Excuse me, Mrs. Pecan, would you like a replica? [[...]] Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u179	I demand, Mr President, that Mr Jerovšek apologize for the fact that he is constantly lying. The municipality of Izola has in no way sold any parcel to any State Secretary or State Secretary. I ask you kindly to apologize for lying to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u180	Mrs. Pecan, I'd like you to calm down. I gave you the word for the replica. I don't want to, even though anything is said to be using unnecessary terms. So please, calm down. We are certainly not going to solve this problem right now, so I am continuing the debate. Please, Mr. Juban.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u181	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I will support this amendment because it does not make it worse in any way, nor does it improve the situation and situation of members of the Hungarian national community in Prekmurje, on which you lean and solve the problem of this amendment when you apply it to the Hungarian national community. I'd like to say the following. The municipalities in Prekmurje were created by all of us who were then in Parliament on one side and the other. They're good like they are right now, and if they stayed like that, it would be good. Because of me, even if there is more, within the criteria that we set, and if the criteria are set out as they are basically, if any of them arise, then there will be nothing wrong and nothing will be better and nothing will be worse. With regard to the Hungarian national community, however, there are problems, but there is nothing to do with this amendment. There's a problem in the next one. The problem is in the statute, which has defined representatives of the municipalities in the national council. Mustard Hungarians, who live in four congregations, the so - called mustard, because Dobrovnik is not a bitter congregation, but one of them, have a minority in the national world and then there is a vote, and within it there are problems and letters. There are indeed letters coming to the Members, to the Prime Minister, to the Office of Nationality, and there is no need to save them here because we will not save them. It is also true that some of the disagreements Mrs Pozsonec is talking about have come to trial and let the court resolve these problems and there is no reason for us to solve them here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u182	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs. Possonec.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u183	It is true that the problem is the number of representatives in the umbrella organisation, but not once has there been a vote, not once. It's just an excuse to vote. There was no vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u184	Thank you very much. I gave you my word, even though your time has run out. I conclude the debate on Article 2 or the amendment of the Italian and Hungarian national groups. We're moving on to Article 5. I am putting to the debate Article 5 and the amendment of the LDS Group of Members. Who would like to take the floor to Article 5 or the amendment of the LDS Group of Members? Here you go, Mrs. Zalokar. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u185	I don't know, but I think there's been an amendment to Article 4. I'm looking, but I don't know, there was no explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u186	Please read the footnote in this article. Is he okay? Will you discuss it? Please refer to Article 5, on the amendment of your Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u187	Thank you very much. I also apologize to all my colleagues and colleagues, but I have not noticed the remark. I was embarrassed if maybe you were wrong, but it was me, admitting and apologizing. It is a matter of the timeless establishment of the congregations, one of the essential interventions brought about by this law. So far, this case has been considered to have taken place once in a four-year term, as a rule it was also concluded in the year before the call for local elections, so this will no longer be the case. As stated in the law, the matter will run continuously and not least, given that we are opening up the possibility that up to 1,000 municipalities will actually arise in Slovenia, according to the number of people living in Slovenia, this option is now open. In fact, this means that we will be able to meet and meet at each meeting of the National Assembly with a proposal to establish a new congregation. I think that this matter, not only from a substantive point of view, is irrational, but also, as the legislative and legal service warns, it will be a complete hindrance to practice. A congregation may already be formed the first year after the election, and then it will wait three years for elections to be held in some latent state, where one could say that it will not be a dick or a mouse. It will not even belong to the former congregation, it will somehow be alone, so that I think that this solution is extremely bad, harmful, in addition to opening up clearly the matter in the sense that it is relaxing and could actually say that there is no limit of 5000. Today, we decide that the 2000 limit is the number of inhabitants. So it seems to me that once again, because of the decisions made in the National Assembly, we will be able to put ourselves in an unenviable situation, in which they will have to find themselves again, as they will know and, above all, will cause many conflicts, conflicts, disputes, many muscular displays, because such a matter, which is already within me, I think, the built-in latent conflict, is not good to put into law. I think it's already an embedded conflict. I would, of course, like to say that a large number of Slovenian cities have asked the government for an opinion or to open an article under this law which discusses the criteria for the establishment of municipalities. These are cities with thousands of years of tradition, such as Piran, Radovljica, Škofja Lok and so on. These are cities that cannot be wiped out and that are not now given city rights or the rights of the city’s municipalities in this new country, although this is not something special, it does not bring any benefits, but of course, it is of great symbolic significance. We have, and the government has, in my opinion, consciously preserved in the law an article which, in my opinion, is completely irrational and says that the condition for the establishment of the city municipality is 20,000 jobs and 15,000 jobs in secondary and tertiary activities. This number of jobs in Tercija and secondary activities is not performed by anyone except the two largest municipalities, but of course this is an article that has closed the story of the possibility of establishing new municipalities for centuries, and in Slovenia there are some municipalities that do not actually meet this criterion and many of them would have significantly higher numbers of people and jobs. While it was said at the committee meeting that the Government wished to see that there had been incoherent conduct on this segment all the time, and there were such and other trades in this National Assembly, which you are now talking about, who has given them signatures and so on, which occurred that more than half of the municipalities that do not have 5000 inhabitants are subject to the criteria in the law of 5000 people in Slovenia. Those exceptions could be built on anything because it was also written in such a way that it could have been decided by a majority or a different majority, but not by a party in Parliament, but mostly by coalitions on other grounds, on other grounds, not by someone in this party or in another. And this principle will go in the event of the establishment of new congregations. The new coalition has decided that this will also be necessary for those who have not been able to do so in the past, especially because they did not meet the criteria for the number of people, and this will go on in this respect because it is mainly about the village and the non-urban environment, while the service for local self-government and the coalition are showing a highly hostile attitude towards urban areas, which, in this way, continues to be hampered, despite calls, despite having received a number of written initiatives, they do not want to move in this direction. This is, in my opinion, some extremely urban and urban policy that will take its revenge on us in the long term. Colleagues and colleagues, this is not the way we think we will achieve greater regional equality in Slovenia, but we ourselves are digging a cave, because the oppression of these environments, which are pulsative, urban environments are important for further development, are carriers in specific environments of certain major issues and projects, because they also have human resources and other resources and their weakening means weakening all and not only these environments. This will not result in a more equitable development between rural and urban areas, but these are other levers, which unfortunately we do not know how to expose in this country. We in the amendment propose a very modest and very reasonable solution so that, at least in the last six months before the local elections are signed, this matter will be closed. In fact, we will now be able to confirm the new assembly in the last month or the last day before the local elections in the National Assembly, and then no one will know how and what the elections first. This is also very clearly pointed out by the legislative and legal service in its opinion. Our proposal, I think he's reasonable. Given the ratio of strength and power, we considered that it would be reasonable at least these six months to stop the establishment of new congregations, so we have tabled this amendment and we believe that, by adopting this amendment, a number of embarrassing, irreconcilable things that would arise and cause even a series of search for different legal opinions could be prevented.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u188	Thank you very much. Mr. Pache has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u189	Thank you. Your Honors are here! As part of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, we assess or derive from the Constitutional Court's decision, which was written at the then referendums in connection with the electoral systems and the conduct of the elections. As we have so far considered, the electoral law in the local community, the elections to the National Assembly will be based on the simple fact that it is necessary to respect the electorate and the electorate at least to the extent that the electoral year does not change legislation that actively affects the elections, not only because of the political parties, but also because of the electorate and the electorate. Put them within a period of two months, one month or at least eight months before the election day in a new state that reflects a completely different picture, and the establishment of a new local community just before the present, just before the elections is irresponsible by the government and those Members who support such ideas. According to our assessment, no electoral task should be decided on a new one, whether it is the definition of an electoral district, the identification of a local community or the electoral system in an election year, so we will be competing for all those solutions that reflect or fill a constitutional court decision that clearly and loudly say that electoral tasks must not change, electoral legislation in an electoral year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u190	Thank you very much. Dr. Gantar has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u191	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Of course, I will support the amendment of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. The reasons were given. In addition, I would like to add some additional arguments relating to these changes and to this amendment as a whole. Unfortunately, it is not possible to discuss Article 4 because it has not been amended. The fact is that this law essentially triggers and releases the barrier to the establishment of new clearly smaller municipalities, since the territory of Slovenia, as it is, more municipalities mean smaller municipalities, by territory and by number of inhabitants. There's no dilemma about that. I believe that the practice and the law so far in this area has not been good enough, that it has already allowed too many exceptions, uncontrolled exceptions, which have been the product of political "deals" and agreements in the national assembly and beyond, and that this has not affected local self-government in Slovenia as well as all those who advocate it, because they have not shown empirical evidence for it. But there are a number of other studies and analyses that can show this. I believe that the local community must exist as a social territorial co-dependence and that once the rules were in force and that this territoriality in the local community was mainly established by spatial and geographical physical elements, but today they increasingly set economic and social technology that the development of information and communication technologies has broadened the scope of human and social territoriality so that, given the thresholds for meeting needs, the local communities should be larger and not smaller. And we're going the other way. And this will prove to us that we will organise our resources optimally and will not have optimal or at least approximately optimal networks, supply activities, structures and so on. This is already happening today, it has been happening, and this will happen even more, especially in such relaxed cases, when the congregations can be established so much about a month before the elections. No one calculated the social and economic costs due to the sub-optimal social organisation of local communities. Once these calculations come in, I can only assume that they'll be relatively high and we'll stick to our heads. I believe that it is also possible and necessary to establish a municipality that has 200 or 300 inhabitants if I am joking, which can have more eagles and bears than human souls, if there are substantive, territorial reasons for this, which are bound to imprisonment, distance, some particular mountain specificity of a municipality. I believe, however, that the municipality of 5,000, 6,000 people in a central area of Slovenia, which is highly connected and which depends on other places and areas and on a wider environment, does not have the opportunity and opportunities for real existence and should not exist. These criteria, which have now been seriously reduced to 2,000, so we must read them, do not actually improve our situation, but make things worse, which was already the problem of this law. That's why I don't think it's too much to talk about what Cveta said. On the contrary, there has been some anti-urban thinking and some anti-urban sentiment in this National Assembly for a long time, and I am not just tying it to the current ruling coalition. This anti-urban sentiment prevents larger and, above all, medium-sized cities in Slovenia, which should be the engine and generator of social, economic development. And we know that very well. Therefore, these changes, which are here in general, especially in relation to Article 5, that I will not speak of those who are not open, of course this is not a good prospect for the future of local self-government in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u192	Thank you very much. Mr. Slavinec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u193	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to all present! I will also support the amendment and join in with what has already been said, for, of course, the division of congregations or the establishment of new ones at a time when this is conditional on entirely different motives than the congregation itself should provide for citizens. The community must ensure the interests of those who reside there. The prudence and purpose of the establishment of a congregation is if it can provide it in a better way than it was previously regulated. However, as we see from the actual state of affairs, given the large number of municipalities under 5,000 people, the exception becomes a rule. And if this continues, given the population of two million, we can get a thousand municipalities very quickly. Of course, I am aware that this will not happen, but one extreme is certainly true. I would like to point out that it is wrong for an exceptional matter to become more or less a rule. And as has already been said, this law actually makes it possible. I am also asking about the rationalisation of how much additional costs will be incurred by the new municipalities, as it is necessary to establish not only municipal councils, mayors and all other bodies, but also the functioning, which certainly results in new costs by dividing them. And if we prevent this from happening out of extremely pre-election motives and interests - and this amendment is meant to do so - then we can certainly give new content and quality to this law. For this reason, I certainly propose that we support this law and in this way essentially contribute to a virtual decentralisation - by establishing new municipalities, which should allow for greater democracy at the municipal level - to be reduced. Why do you think she's imaginary? We are all well aware that the mayors of small municipalities, in contact with state authorities, are by no means able to sufficiently represent the interests of their citizens and citizens. And if there is this interest, it should be applied through stronger links and interests at the level of local communities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u194	Thank you very much. Mr. Milan Petek has the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u195	Thank you, Chairman. The chairman of the committee is not here. For those of you who have heard, let me say that in his performance he found that the work of the committee was constructive. I agree. We've worked very constructively. Whether the amendments adopted by the Committee are a result of constructiveness, I think they are more the result of a poorly prepared law, which makes so many amendments. But I didn't mean to talk about it. In one part, the committee is unconstructive, and that is precisely in this part covered by the LDS amendment. The LDS had slightly different amendments at the beginning. This amendment predicted and said that it would be one year, the year before the elections, when all the activities would cease and end. After a discussion in which a huge or majority of Members participated, I must point out, above all, that the Secretary of State, who has already agreed that this deadline should have been six months before the elections, has also participated. So everything was inclined to have this deadline for six months, so the Zalokar flower fixed this amendment, and we were all convinced that this amendment would be adopted with the consent of Mr Rokavac. Unfortunately, with figs in their pocket, other Members voted against such an amendment. For this reason, I believe that at least in this part, constructiveness was not guaranteed, but it was, I would say, an abuse of the debate in this way. All I want is for you Members, I'm sitting here, for those who aren't, unfortunately I can't say, to blow my soul away, so that at least for that reason it would be worth listening to the amendment, if you don't want to understand the substantive reasons. The fact is, however, that the substantive issue is quite clear. By setting up this law or by law allowing the establishment of congregations, even at the 2000 threshold, there will be an excuse, a dissatisfaction and a new congregation will be set up where an environment is displeased with the situation in such a, slightly larger congregation. I will illustrate this with one Maribor case, where it threatens that because a part of a city does not agree with the location of the waste dump, and because otherwise it cannot prevent the location of this in its field, it will be decided at any time, in the middle of this mandate or before the elections, that it is going to establish a new congregation. This avoids an obligation that has been accepted as an integral part of the previous congregation and will likely have one confusion and one flood of such possibilities, and I am not just talking about this case, probably where else are they. That is why I would only knock on the reasonableness of you Members to judge and try to find that it is not always necessary to vote just as it requires a dictatorship, but sometimes also reasonable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u196	Thank you very much. Mr. Steba has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u197	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u198	Excuse me, Mr. Stebe. I give the floor to a representative of the government.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u199	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to the honourable Members of Parliament! I must comment on this statement by Mr Petk, honourable Member of the Committee. Look, there, of course, on behalf of the government, we all clearly advocated the view that the most neutral approach is the approach that will in some way neutralise the so-called campaign approach to the establishment of the congregations we have witnessed so far. If we all know what the first possible deadline for the call for regular local elections is, then the flag in the National Assembly will fall. The proceedings that have ended have ended. If they succeed in the procedure, after the first regular elections, they shall be established and elected by the authorities in the first elections, and the congregation shall, of course, take effect from about 1.1 the following year. If we set a time limit, which is of course a distance from this, we would have an earlier counter-effect to what you are saying here, of course. Let's make it harder in some way to take a more campaign approach. The previous draft law on local self-government, which, of course, ended the parliamentary procedure, did not complete it, if you are looking at the text of the law, had exactly the same procedure. For this reason, it is for the reason that this practice, which has so far been clearly negative than positive, is also for the functioning of the National Assembly, including for the assessment of an individual proposal to be addressed by such a solution. And, of course, in the end, this clearly led to every initiator knowing and knowing about the changes adopted in the National Assembly. About everyone knows that within one year, the first term is possible for the call for regular local elections. Whoever has an interest will, of course, benefit from this interest through the changes adopted by law, of course through the examination of the so-called human will. If people's will is positive, the legislator will, of course, continue the procedure. And we see no reason why we should set certain hands that are more or less clear. It is clear that when the first possible deadline for the call for regular elections, the flag will fall. This will keep the initiators waiting for the next 4 years, as they have been waiting until now, when the National Assembly, by its decision to initiate the procedure, has even called them. This is a significant change, according to our assessment, mainly the quality of the solution at this level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u200	Thank you very much to the representative of the government. Mr. Steba has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u201	I support a solution that allows or prevents the electoral process from already being initiated, and it is not possible to form new municipalities within these deadlines, logically. Any greater restriction on this is a derogation from the rule that should be supported in the culture of democracy and autonomy, ladies and colleagues. We mean to let the environment form, and we don't limit it. We limit them to 5,000 inhabitants and to some logical nonsense to 2,000 or 1,000 inhabitants, but we do not really know what we are talking about. In Switzerland, France, America you have municipalities that have 200 inhabitants. If a community has decided to act as a congregation, it has this freedom and can function. Of course, it is another story of how we impose various tasks on the municipalities and various accounting and financial and other administrative matters, that in fact man is in a dilemma, whether it is reasonable to establish those smallest municipalities. But elsewhere in the world these are normally functioning systems, in those environments, in those cultures where democracy and autonomy are understood that way. Of course, we also have derogations from this. The Swedes brought congregations together for some other purpose and for some other reason to solve some other problems. At the same time, if today's honourable Mr Pavel Gantar thinks in an informational sense. Today, we are all talking about the global village and about our support for getting closer to the citizen. Let us also do so in a real sense. Why do we introduce a variety of traps and restrictions and try to limit things from certain fears or political goals? I think we're very ambiguous and double-minded here. I say that today there are many things that can be passed on to the citizen and better passed on if the congregation is smaller, of course, if this small congregation acts as a whole, there is a whole community that can function in a sociological sense. And we know that many of these smaller environments work very well and can turn money very well. Of course, it will then be necessary for the State and others to make sure that such smaller congregations can also advance and catch a backlog. In reverse or analogous, it also applies to the formation of urban or larger municipalities or some other communities, which have another objective: to combine some capacities or to operate in some common institutions for a wider area. It's most pointless to limit matters. I will always be against such restrictions, which in fact do not have the right arguments in the background and which, if organised in the right way, do not cause those fears that we have, additional costs and do not know what else. Everything else, and I'll tell you it's a duplicity. Ethics, the true ethics of democracy is - and we are all committed to - going as close as possible to the citizen. And we can come through a minority of congregations. Or, if you want, larger congregations that know some other services that the smaller municipalities cannot perform are thus saving, even through contractual unions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u202	Thank you very much. I do not wish to limit the debate, but please, if we are merely sticking to the subject of Article 5 and the amendment of the LDS Group of Members. What was now, what you have heard, referred to Article 4, which is irrelevant. We continue the debate. Mr. Pache has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u203	I apologize for returning to the same article, but I would like to point out my naivety, which, of course, should not be, given that I have been in this Parliament for some time now and that I have seen that the Ministry has a different way of communicating with Members and Members within its new constitution that it is not enough to open a certain dilemma in the context of the debate of a Member, but that this dilemma must be addressed to it, and please, Mr Minister, if you can wait a minute, two minutes. Thank you. In my previous speech, I highlighted the Constitutional Court's decision, which has been cited many times in the past, and I believe that you know it. But I do know that your associate knows her, so that the electoral legislation may not change during the electoral year or election year. You probably agree with me because I know that we should agree that the law on local self-government is one of the fundamental laws that fosters elections to local authorities. As I have pointed out earlier, I find it very irresponsible for citizens, citizens, citizens and citizens to put them before a new fact, i.e. who and how to vote, because you probably know that the way of elections in many ways depends on the size of individual local communities just before the elections, that is, a month before the elections, or that we are so right to them and that we put them at least a year before. Of course, this is of particular interest to me on the basis of the transitional and final provisions, as defined in the proposed law, when you speak in Article 34 and Article 35, I am sorry that the provisions of the law on the procedure for the establishment of municipalities and the establishment of their territories cease to apply as of the date of implementation of this Act. The law, which you mention will cease to apply, has defined how much time it takes to vote until the day of the elections, to form and to become new congregations of a constant, so the electorate and the electorate can make a qualitative decision in elections for those bodies that have the right to vote in municipal councils and for the mayor. Since you are repealing this law or in the transitional and final provisions, which has already been defined and replaced by an empty amount of time in the amendment of the law, I would like to hear from you two concrete answers to two specific questions. First time. Why is the Government of the Republic of Slovenia not in compliance with the Constitutional Court's decision to prohibit the execution of electoral tasks and the amendment of electoral legislation during the electoral year? Another time. Do you not find it unfair to leave citizens and citizens, in other words, in whatever way you want, voters and voters, in ignorance or in ignorance until the day of elections, what their local community will look like? According to my assessment, the task of policy and, of course, the executive branch is that we are so correct that we respect this possibility and the decision of the Constitutional Court, because otherwise, and I think that there will be an exact opposite case, given that you are taking my mind off the bench, I estimate that both this law and all the other laws that come in the set of electoral legislation are intended solely to privatise local communities to a particular political option that fears that the programme and activities will fail in the elections, so it adapts to Slovenian legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u204	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Jagar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u205	Thank you for your word. I'll be quite specific in my answers. According to our assessment, we are not changing electoral legislation. The electoral legislation is well known, and even from the very beginning, with regard to the size of the congregation, it is clear exactly what system will be elected in the individual congregation, and it is also clear exactly how great the congregation will be and everything that belongs to it. It's a clear thing. And we don't make any changes in this marriage. As regards, of course, the procedures themselves, as far as I am aware, the procedure for the start-up of the elections shall be called by the National Assembly and, of course, no longer the establishment of new congregations since then. This is also within the competence of the National Assembly and the National Assembly will be able to take this into account. Of course, I would like to explain some other things now because they are trying to attribute some things that are not holding at all. We must, of course, decide in this country whether we respect the process of local self-government or not and also the fundamental principle of local self-government. Local self-government is a local government and, of course, the state cannot take the right to continue to fully influence the flow of local self-government. Because then local government, you know, we don't. And that's a fact. And that's also why all these solutions are that this process is going on, just like it's going on. Why it runs like this, of course, the reasons may be different. The basic purpose or primary objective of the State must be to establish conditions for local self-government to operate. Not that it interferes in all possible ways, on all segments of local self-government. I don't think that's how it works. And this is a basic concept that we must, of course, be aware of, decide to decentralise the country. And I would continue to say that this matter of its processes of local self-government, I think some things will change by establishing landscapes. We will seriously lay down this project, we are already preparing it, including with regard to the regulation of the centres of the provinces, which will give future additional status to the municipalities at this time, as a central and also within it will have to resolve individual cities or the status of the municipalities. I also agree with this, of course, that they need to be given a certain status through these solutions. The fundamental thing is whether we want to intervene in everything in the field of local self-government or whether we really want to give local self-government what it is actually doing. And I think the solutions to this law are going in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u206	It's a replica. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u207	Of course, I cannot agree with the content of your answer. Firstly, I cannot accept your theory that many small communities are a condition for the decentralisation of the state. It's the other way around. If we have in our country, I will now say very symbolically, 500 small congregations without authority, without sufficient funding, it is also to be expected that the government will not take these congregations as partners. Just because of what is happening today, when we have only 190 of them, the emphasis was only, although I personally think it is a lot, and the state of these congregations is not taking it as a negotiating partner. And it is through the number of municipalities that we estimate that this negative trend is emerging, which, after all, you want to legitimize. This is a trend of centralisation in our country. I'd like to talk to you when you were just talking about the content of the amendment mentioned in Article 5, if you'd like to talk about it. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u208	Mr. Pache, is this a replica or a debate?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u209	A replica of the first part of the minister's response.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u210	If that's the case.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u211	In his speech, the minister said that this law did not affect the field of electoral work in any way. Yes, Minister, how's that? If you look at one article earlier, this is Article 4, you will see that right through this law, the new creation of congregations with new criteria is permitted. You cannot speak in the sense that you demand or are in favour of local self-government. In this case, if you're setting the conditions, the state can't say that. On the other hand, it is precisely this, Mr Minister, that you seek to do so, on one side of Article 4, so you are reducing the criteria for establishing a municipality. In the next article, which the opposition members are trying to amend with an amendment, you deny the possibility of letting citizens and citizens know what local authorities will compete for on election day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u212	Thank you very much. Mr. Mikolitch has the floor. Would you like to respond, Mr. Secretary? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u213	I'm sorry, but I think it's a two-way change. One is the electoral system that belongs to a certain municipality. The other is the establishment of a congregation. The municipality, as it will be put into the procedure, will be as it is if it is established. And of course, if in the process of setting up future citizens and citizens decide whether they want to have such a congregation. Then things are still very clear and famous.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u214	Thank you very much. Mr. Mikolitch has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u215	Thank you very much. With regard to the amendment, or article 5, or who initially agreed, and later did not vote with a fig in his pocket, I do not know that, but I must say that I voted on my own, that there is no reason why a procedure for establishing new congregations would not continue to run through a certain mandate. As it had been heard earlier, this would mean a plaza of establishment or initiatives for new congregations, some thousands of municipalities, and others, according to a four - year period, the State Assembly would deal with this at each meeting, in fact speaking in mind. The data from the previous mandate, which are evident, should be examined and how many initiatives have been taken to establish new municipalities. I think that the government or I am sure that it is on this basis that it has adopted certain legislative changes in the proposed law. I would also mention that if someone were concerned that this would actually mean that, given that only with a new mandate is the congregation formed, the one for whom the new congregation is appointed would be a large, disadvantaged share in the period when it is still under the common congregation, it is really up to the one who has taken the initiative to establish the congregation. Surely he will have to think carefully before this and also accept the certain responsibility that he himself has imposed or imposes on him by law, so that I also somehow consider this part to be a little talk on my mind. Certainly, we will not support the proposed amendment in the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u216	Thank you very much. Mrs. Zalokar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u217	Thank you very much. I must say that, of course, I am sorry that Mr Minister has left the Chamber, even at the meeting of the Committee he was not present at this point, and there the lawyers from the legal service of the National Assembly have pointed to this dilemma. And I, if I know correctly that then the crew gathered there, which has also joined Mr Podobnik, does not have a legal basis in this respect and I want to read to you, I am not a lawyer myself, I will read the opinion of the legal and legislative service, which says: We caution that the law does not regulate the time limits for the implementation of the procedure and does not provide for the procedure to be carried out simultaneously for all proposals tabled during a certain period, from which we conclude that, on the basis of such an arrangement, the procedures will take place individually. In short, the law does not regulate deadlines and we are the legislative body here and, Mr Secretary of State, such answers as you gave them, the flag falls when the deadline for the elections is signed where it says so. What law states that the day after the call for elections could not establish any new congregations within that time frame? Where does it say that? For the law which speaks of the procedures for the establishment of a new congregation, with transitional provisions, is barred or invalidated. And it won't just be like you said, the flag falls, everyone will know - listen, it's not something that belongs in the legislative body. That is why we have a legal and legislative service to remind us of such inconsistencies that we do not know who are not lawyers or lawyers. And here was a warning. And I'm sorry that the minister isn't here to hear it again. This warning was given by the Legal Service of the National Assembly. And I'm telling you, there's a great deal of dilemma going on here. Nowhere does it say that someone can't invest later so that the National Assembly can't form a new congregation even at the time of the elections. It's not written anywhere. But if it is, tell me where it's written. That is why we have introduced this article, and I do not know why such fear of an article, which the legislature has also supported, for which we have received a positive opinion on the committee, then it has come to light, unless, of course, there are other things behind, that this is pointless, because everyone will already know, and some flags will fall. It's not the legal language. And I don't think you have the right to cause a dilemma. At the local self-government, we had enough problems due to the legal nonsense they had received in this national assembly and caused such problems. And here comes the new one. He's definitely driving. I would like to raise this question: What is democracy, what is democratic, the essence of local self-government? The essence of local self - government is certainly not 1,000 or 200, or 15, such as even one congregation in France. I was there, too. And in France, they are well aware of this problem. And it's not all that nice. And the trend in Europe runs in integration. And not in splintering. And we're back out there somewhere, on the other side. The trend in Europe is in the assembly of municipalities, cooperation, and also in the association that needs to be accelerated, as it turns out that these fragmented municipalities are not so beautiful, only the positive effects. It's not the last time we see them. One sees only development. You know, it's not just the development that every little congregation has all the roads paved. Someone has to take care of something else. Also for other municipal public services, with which fragmented congregations in the field of economic public services are extremely difficult to deal with. And, in fact, that's all I want to tell you. Constantly - because the Minister of the Environment is sitting here - he will constantly hang a sword over the municipalities, that if things do not happen in a certain environment, if their opinion is not taken into account, if an unpleasant object is placed in an environment, such as a dump, which has already been mentioned, or something else, this environment will be threatened by the expulsion from the municipality. And this Damocle sword will hang continuously over this environment. And I think we will have even greater problems at the local level by putting everything we say in Slovenia: just not in my yard. For everyone who feels and is not able to put such a thing in a certain local community will be threatened by the secession and thus the establishment of his own congregation, thereby making it impossible for these things to happen, which are of a broader character than the asphalting of all the corn roads in the fields, which are the greatest range of many smaller congregations. I'm a little cynical, but I'm sorry, because my experience is very long and I know who else is involved. And one more thing. Mary Teresa already knew that divisions and fragmentation were not good. That's why we have solid farms in Gorenjska, where it didn't collapse, and that's why we have everything broken down in Gorička and Haloz. Here, too, some of our predecessors or not ours could learn something from those who may have known something to think about for a longer time. Fragmentation isn't good. Even when farms break down, we know where they're coming from. Thus, the marriage instituted by Mary Teresa was only one way, much better than all fragmentation. Even in Primorska, I think that's the problem. And I think that this responsibility will pass. If we establish and have a second level of power, then perhaps some solutions will be better. Of course, then, these congregations, which will have very modest powers, will be limited matters, because most things are likely to move to a different level of local self-government, regionalised, provincial level. It will be the congregations that will not have these powers and will judge as some minor matters more in creating a sense of self - destiny.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u218	Thank you very much. Here you go, government representative.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u219	See, Mrs. Zalokar, also the amendment of the Liberal Democracy keeps Damokle's sword hanging over the municipalities. In fact, you're holding Damocles' sword because you're just locating the matter six months before the first deadline for the election call. In fact, this argument does not hold back. That argument doesn't hold. Maybe that's the fear you put out about when the flag falls. However, this argument cannot be maintained either. The National Assembly is the body that signs the local elections, and at the same time it is the authority in the country that runs the procedures for the establishment of municipalities. It is clear that when local elections are signed, they are signed for those entities that are then formally established; we know clearly what these procedures are like. Subjects who will be established after this deadline may also wait for the next four years within the time limit of the call for local elections, because the deadlines begin to run, electoral tasks begin to run. This is more than crystal clear in electoral legislation and we do not need to redefine and repeat it here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u220	Thank you very much. Mr. Gantar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u221	Thank you very much. In this article, I would like to point out once again that the Secretary of State has mentioned that this amendment of the Liberal Democracy means that the campaign for the establishment of new municipalities will be relaunched and that the proposal, as proposed by the proposer, actually allows for some normal individual establishment of new municipalities. No, of course not. We know from experience that this new proposal will launch a campaign not only in one part of the mandate period but throughout the whole mandate period, and will produce the effect of the so-called snowball when the first municipality is followed by the second, the second, the third, the third and the fifth, and so on. And we will have a campaign according to the English password "english breakfast all day", a campaign over the entire mandate period. That's how I don't believe it, of course. What's more, even the arguments cited here, I'm a little concerned. Here you may warn me, Mr Vice President, that I am going too far and yet. We are witnesses to some extremely free-thinking spontanism of government representatives, as well as to a representative of one of the parliamentary groups - I will not appoint him because he will recognize himself - who says, "People should establish a congregation on some territory, such as once pioneers in the Wild West, the first settlers in Pannonian and other lowlands, mountains and the like." Why not? Sure, you can. Let us legislate this spontaneous establishment of municipalities, but then write in law: all the inhabitants of a certain territory may establish a congregation and inform the national assembly. And let us write another article: the cost of such a congregation is borne by itself. If we write this, we will achieve much, and I think we will also achieve the rationalisation of the congregations. The social territorial organisation is a more serious issue in modern times, and I have already mentioned that trends, particularly those related to the development of information society and technology, lead to human social territoriality, which is larger and broader than it once was, and therefore, as a rule, local units are larger than they once were. The scope of movement of an individual today is significantly greater than that of an individual from the past or two or three generations before us. Therefore, local communities are different and must be different. That's what everybody's up to. In some cases, by changing municipalities, they establish super-local and supra-regional structures. But this means that, when the municipalities are smaller, they will potentially have fewer powers and more powers will be transferred to the supra-local and regional levels. This means that you will establish and transform congregations into what we now have as local communities. This is a trend that, in my opinion, is not defined in the policy of local self-government, not this one and not any other government. In fact, in my opinion, this law does not give you a broader mandate to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u222	Thank you very much. Mrs. Pecan has the floor. You asked before - yes, I wrote it down. You don't want a word. Yes, Mr. Contic is right behind you. Here you go, Mr. Kotich.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u223	Thank you very much. I myself have been on the committee where we voted at the end of this amendment, which we have before us today, and let me say that I myself have understood that there was some kind of favor expressed by the Secretary of State that a limit might be acceptable. It was only a question of what time limit. I understand that the government does not now land for six months if we take further into account the deadlines for the call and the conduct of the elections. This means that it would almost be impossible to establish a new congregation during this term. This, of course, is my only real reason to oppose this amendment. I will support this amendment, but the current way in this mandate will be exactly the same as that of the past. We have about one more year before the local elections, and the campaign will now begin to encourage the municipalities not to apply for the invitation, but to invest independently for the change or for the law that will set up their congregations. It will be exactly the same as it was in the previous term. When you talk about it, "when the flag falls" - this term is also used in chess, if I'm not wrong, but chess has two more terms: at least chess and then mat.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u224	Thank you very much. Mr. Ficko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u225	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It is very difficult to hold a debate on the amendments if the amendment to Article 5 refers to other articles which the colleague has probably not yet succeeded in following up the debate under the articles. Article 7 lists these deadlines, which indirectly also bind the procedures for the establishment of municipalities. Article 7 states that the municipal electoral commission for the newly formed area should be set up within the time limits set for local elections. If they are not done by the municipal council or by the municipal council, it is even the responsibility of the Republican Election Commission. These are the deadlines which are also linked to the procedures of the National Assembly, but which are not directly linked to the establishment of the congregation itself, because these proposals, as previously said, can be broad throughout the four years, of course, but it is very important how the applicants will tactically take the initiative to set up a new congregation, because they will only come into force after the next regular local elections. What happens at that time does not mean that everything goes into freezing, but the previous composition, the former formation of the congregations works. And that is exactly what I am linking with that tactical approach when the initiator will only take the initiative. However, it is not explicitly written when the National Assembly must conclude this, but it does not seem so important to me. Nevertheless, he would also touch on the very ways or conditions for the establishment of new municipalities. It's amazing how badly one of you read the bill and the old content of the law. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u226	May I remind you?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u227	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u228	Come on, please, keep up the subject we're discussing. The topic is Article 5 and the amendment to Article 5.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u229	Article 5 is also related to the establishment of new municipalities and this amendment. [[...]] Will you allow me to continue the debate?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u230	Here you are, only if you respect what I've asked you to do.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u231	It is all about the establishment of new municipalities, both the whole law and this amendment to Article 5. About the conditions for the establishment of a new congregation to be freed. Nothing is relaxed, they are more rigorously set up, because in the previous law it was stated that the municipality could be established with 5,000 inhabitants and under certain special conditions also with fewer, and up to no inhabitants, theoretically, or one. The 2000 limit is now in place. Thus, it is theoretically impossible to establish a smaller congregation than with 2,000 inhabitants. And since the current law also introduces legal protection on the basis of the Constitutional Court's decision, it is, of course, for the national assembly, to be bound by what it itself will adopt in this law. However, my personal opinion does not agree with this proposal in the law. He himself would not have violated the right to establish new municipalities for current initiators, even though they have fewer inhabitants. In fact, my forerunner, Mr. Gantar, is not here now, he spoke half an hour ago about how congregations can function successfully even with 200 to 300 inhabitants, and a little later he speaks again about how it is impossible for us to crush congregations. And if in the past in this National Assembly you have made decisions about the establishment of municipalities, including small ones, with 300, 400 inhabitants, and I believe that this was related to considerable political shopping, because each of you has peed your flags on the map of Slovenia, it seems inappropriate for me not to have, say, this possibility of creating a congregation where in the past, at the time of adoption, politically disabled. I am talking about the municipality of Bogojina in Prekmurje, which meets all the conditions of those special criteria, except of course the condition of the population. Unfortunately, I have to agree with the decision taken by the coalition, because in this way I also believe that the state assembly or the government coalition can function. And there's something else about what's already been said today -- "fike in your pocket." In fact, I'm surprised at how many current opposition solutions you have, proposals in the law itself, you're shaking them out of your hand. I have my opinion why you haven't used them and performed them in the last term. I assume you held both hands in your pocket, with "figs" of course, and as soon as you took them out, the citizens would see you ruling "with a fig in your pocket". We don't need this right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u232	Thank you very much. Although it wasn't exactly what I asked it to be. Mr. Sok has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u233	Dear President! Article 5 refers to the procedure for changing the territory of the municipality or for the establishment of a new municipality, if any, and how the procedure takes place. And this is a key article of this law. I therefore think that this debate was not before me, and the amendment has been tabled in Article 5.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u234	Well, I gave you my word if you give your opinion. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u235	Thank you so much for interrupting. I wanted to fix you up a little bit. You have to run the session as it is, and then we won't talk about other things.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u236	Thank you so much for the heads-up.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u237	Please. Look, four years ago, a little less, but something happened here in the National Assembly, which is going to have to be fixed in some way. And the ruling coalition, I believe that because of what she has done, she has also lost the elections to a good extent; and so is the case. People have not appointed us to decide differently than they want, and no one actually has the right to speak or say that you do not have the right to speak to your congregation if the law permits it. And the law is clear. The law speaks of 5,000 inhabitants, except then gives an opportunity if certain other conditions are met. The lowest costs, Mrs Orzmova, would be to join the Ljubljana People. Why not? Why not join the Ljubljana Congregation? Besides, we're going to have one big congregation, and that's going to be the least of our expenses. You'll just go to Ljubljana and they'll tell you what to do in Domžalje. Today, you decide what you will do in the House of Commons, what you are the mayor there and at the same time a Member of the State Council, and you have tremendous power. Others are denied this right. With what arguments? Why? From where? Who gave you this right? Nobody. You're taking it yourself. Mr Gantar speaks, I don't know, he lives in Ljubljana, to live in Haloze so that he will take his shoes to the bus in the morning, that he will change when he goes on the bus, but not that his utilities will clean up his road in the morning, but if he's not cleaned, he can complain to the utility company and so on. See how they work in these rural congregations. First thing in the morning, they set out on their own so that they can go to work and go on their own. And that's the essential difference. And with what right you could then tell me, I don't know, the Kočevska River, but you have no right to have a congregation. You've moved them once, they've driven them all out of there, they've "destroyed" them, there's no people today. However, those who have remained must, of course, go to Kočev to ask for mercy. Is that right? Of course you do. We should go to the right place to ask for mercy. And because they have seen that small congregations are rapidly evolving, because there people step together, because there from one tolar they make an impact on two tolars, but not, say, in large congregations of two tolars for half a tolar, they want to have their own congregation and be master of their own. And I don't know what else we're gonna say. You're saying that they don't have staff in these little congregations, that they can't -- I don't know, we're always putting more kids in high school programs, they're getting more and more out of college, but people are getting more and more "tumast" -- or what do you think? That we do not know how to handle some common matters, we know how to run local communities, we know how to do everything, but we do not know how to run a congregation. This must be a big one, where a certain elite tells us what to do in their place. I'll tell you what else. The Ormož community didn't share, but because it didn't share, we're all behind. People see it, they see it. I don't know why, but it's a fact. You're saying small congregations don't have everything in paved roads. Yeah, the roads are, I don't know, I could say, like the veins in the body -- if they're blocked, then the organs don't work. With roads is like with transitional veins - if they are built, if the basic municipal infrastructure is built, then the people in that place will stay. If that's not the case, then people go. That's why the Haloses are empty. That's why they're empty because we couldn't do it. And they're getting better today. The hazelnuts are getting better. Last time I listened to the Maribor mayor, who said the population in Maribor is shrinking because people began to migrate to the countryside. Why? Apparently because they realized there was a communal infrastructure created there. And if we can make this highway connection in this country, then it won't be a problem to live in the countryside. These are, of course, the reasons why some advocate that people have the right to establish a congregation. The second is, of course, that the National Assembly can say what I know, the congregation has these powers, the financial headship will be such and so on. These are other laws. But we do not have the right - and we cannot agree with you in any way that you will actually try to prevent new congregations from forming such a way of speaking and with such obstacles. I think this coalition is going to gather enough wisdom and that what you've done four years ago is going to screw up to use that term, somehow fix it and give these people their dignity back. For we have created two kinds of citizens in this country: we have given one person a right, and we have not given others the right to go to a referendum and say whether they want to or not. We didn't even give them that right! Of course, the authorities who do so are not worthy to rule. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u238	Mr. Janc has the floor. Please. [[Back-up advertising.]] Excuse me! A replica? Please, Mrs. Zalokar, you have the floor for the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u239	I apologize, but I have been mentioned and directly challenged, even by the fact that we are to have an extremely great power together, and we are to join Ljubljana. See, Mr Sok, in Domžale we have more than 30,000 people, it is a very large municipality, so it is difficult to challenge and Ljubljana has 250,000 people. This, however, is a thought that may be somewhat different. And I think you can understand some things, too. I have not - and I have also said this several times today - against the establishment of new congregations. We also set up a congregation in the previous term that met the criteria, that is, Šmartno pri Lithija, who is still suing Lithia in court and wasting time there, but the fact is that the municipality that met the criteria was established. However, I think it is important to say that we have been elected to Parliament, not to set up our own congregation in their own place, but to rise up and think as Members for the whole country. In this respect, of course, unfortunately for that sex, which speaks of irrationality - I would like to see if the local self-government service can say how much more municipal staff and staff have increased on account of the fact that we have shared new congregations. There is something else you need to know, the establishment of new municipalities, and that is what my colleague Rupar said is paying off in Slovenia. We have written such a law on the financing of municipalities that when an environment is divided - and this has also happened to the former municipality of Domžale - when this environment is distributed when you add up the new budgets of the newly established municipalities, the sum is 120%, the sum compared to the previous single congregation. And the division of the congregation pays off, and we are sending this message here today. However, the bag is the same. But the bag is the same as the money, and now we have to ask ourselves - who do they know? I think there are very few people in this House, but I am going to say this, and even though we are going to get a flat start right now, believe me, we feel strong in the larger municipalities, we feel strong that our financial resources are falling. I've made these calculations per capita, which may be a little bit irrelevant, but there's no other way to do it than to say how much you get per capita in individual congregations. And believe me, in the upper part of Slovenian municipalities there are very, very small municipalities; and not large and not urban. And of course, what no one wants to hear is that there are other major things that need to be taken care of in large congregations. It is necessary to have regional libraries, someone must also have some regional theatre. For example, Jesenice herself is working with her regional theatre for the entire Upper Posava Valley. And other things, when they come looking for shares in small congregations, or if they want to participate, because they notice that, say, theaters also come from a slightly wider area, but they say: no, no, that's not, but that's your problem. And of course all of these things, the museum activity, the gallery activity, the whole type of things that may mean something on another segment, immaterial - so I have also talked about the roads before - about these things the small municipalities are extremely, extremely reluctant to talk about and extremely reluctant to participate. This is the experience of many. Still, if I am informed, it is in some Slovenian environments that they do not want to co-finance the regional libraries. Excuse me, this is a replica of the attack that was carried out in terms of content and I think it is completely relevant, but I apologize [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u240	Mrs. Zalokareva [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u241	I agree that I went a little over, but he challenged a gentleman who used to talk about how to get by. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u242	Mrs. Zalokareva.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u243	We're cutting today. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u244	Nice self-criticism, but it was a debate, a controversy, not a replica. Mr. Janc has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u245	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Minister, Secretary with a co-worker, colleagues and colleagues. The debate on this Article 5 of the amendment is, of course, everything else, but not that. And let me do a little detour, too. Personally, I do not think that this amendment has any particular weight in this complementary amendment to the law on local self-government, which has indeed survived many changes. Maybe it's also normal for local self-government to expand, change anyway, it's matter, it's happening, and it's right that legislation is adapting. A perfectly normal, logical consequence of this is; and here too will not be the end. I believe that something will happen in this mandate, in this area of the law on local self-government, and I see nothing particularly wrong in this. The debate led by my colleagues in front of me and my colleague - we can talk long and wide about local self-government. Slovenia is a small country, but it has exceptional differences between regions, not between Slovene municipalities. These are facts and what small Slovenian municipalities do is very successful and significantly different in most cases than in urban or larger, richer municipalities. It is true that the former government or former governments were an unloved force of local self-government. They imposed new and new obligations without financial assistance, both large and small. And that's why big congregations have less money than you've had in this account. And I think that this thing has already been on the verge of surviving small, medium-sized municipalities, especially those who have been withdrawn to the periphery, at the edge of Slovenia, who are barely surviving. I agree with those speakers who said that people's will should be respected. The coalition has made one criterion: two thousand-or-good bad, I'd say rather low than high, if I'm honest. But that's what she decided. I think you need to draw a line. This is the lower limit, where it will go, will not go any further, but there will probably be some new Slovenian municipalities, which I feel is nothing wrong with. If that is the will of people to decide to make such a referendum decision, they should have it. I am not saying that this is going to be great in all these small congregations, but in most municipalities so far, practice has shown that they have been successful in relation to those environments that were before. But the reasons are different. One thing is that the mayor of those congregations may be having poor communication with local communities. Secondly, there are some local Februaryes that may want to be mayors, and the third is to try to obtain more resources in their environment and to address their problems, both of which are different in these smaller areas. That's what we know - the road. You know, the road is one fundamental condition for the preservation of the rural population. If you don't have a road, it's even faster to empty the countryside than it's empty enough. And there in the countryside they need a road, and there's other water, and in cities they probably need a sports home, cultural stuff, etc. And if you have a good judgment in a congregation, then you have no problems sharing the congregation. I come from Sevnica, where there is no talk of any division of the congregation, but it is not only my credit, including the municipal council, the municipal administration and anyone else. That is why I will not support this amendment, but I am pleased to support the amendment of the Local Self-Government Act, because I think that there is one big step forward, even in those areas, as we have talked about salaries in public enterprises, to finally balance this and that the mayor gets some minimum effect in a local community. So far, unfortunately, he hasn't. With the salaries they had, both in small municipalities and in medium municipalities, it was literally sad, shameful for the Slovenian mayor. The head of the kindergarten, the establishment, the public, had a significantly better salary for three times less work. I apologize, but these are the experiences I have from the life of local self-government in my second term. I therefore hope that the Minister, the Secretary, and above all the Government, now is the time for some changes. This is how the coalition decided, decided to decentralise, decided to move forward. Yesterday we had an election law, today we have a story on the agenda around local self-government. I believe that tomorrow the law on the financing of Slovenian municipalities, the law on Slovenian provinces, will be passed tomorrow. These are the stories that are urgently needed in this Slovenia. Believe me, I mean it honestly, I share it with many Slovene municipalities and, of course, also with those coming from the outskirts of this beautiful Slovenia. And I believe that this trend and this future plan will be followed by the government, and that we will finally have the provinces, especially the provinces and municipalities, which will have greater financial authority, the power to decide on their own problems, problems and advantages. Such small municipalities, medium-sized, large, especially Slovenian regions, which today have more on paper with some minimum powers. That's also my wish, so I don't see the need in this amendment and I won't support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u246	Thank you very much. Mr. Kangler, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u247	Thank you for your word. I wanted to respond earlier when my colleague Pecanov spoke about the coastal congregations and compared them with Prekmur, with Hungarian nationality, and with some of those congregations. Now, too, my colleague Soka's debate has very much prompted me to decide to turn myself in on this subject. Although this whole topic goes to the amendment of the Liberal Democracy Group in Article 5, where the time to change the territory of the municipality or to establish a new municipality must end no later than 6 months before the deadline, my opinion is as follows: within such a time period that elections are to be held in all organs, the mayor and the council of the municipalities are to be called and that the municipalities can begin to work. And what colleague Sok said, around the Kočevska River, around some other congregations, respected colleagues and colleagues! Most of the time, I'm with my buddy Soko. Most of them. But it is true, Comrade Sok, that I must be honest with you in this place, that I will be very happy if this coalition listens to the Law on Community Financing and listens to that segment in order to ensure such financial transfers by local communities so that they can live normally. Here we bear the responsibility of all together: those who are in the coalition, and those who are in the opposition. And if we can ensure that what the previous government has not listened to, according to some of my fellow Members, there will also be fewer requirements for certain congregations. You said, Comrade Sok, the Kočevska River. I kind of agree with you. It is an area which has been closed for 40 years or 50 years for the entire Slovenian public. It's closed to every tourist. Closed for everything that brings jobs, development and the like. Usually, all those who lived in Kočevska had public services, such or otherwise, provided such or other options. Even though they didn't leave that area. And today few in this hall or from Slovenian citizens understand those people who have been oppressed for 40 or 50 years. A few. And in some ways I understand that it is a special area, a historical and geographical area, which in some ways this law, or government, or coalition, will be able to take into account or not. As the fact is that when we release that congregation, however, it will be viewed for historical, geographical and other reasons, if they were given a municipality, the plasma of some other requirements will spread throughout Slovenia. But is it interesting, colleague Sok, from which parts of Slovenia is the most requirement for new municipalities? And when we talk about centralism, about strengthening centralism in this country, which is also present in this coalition, if I may say so, it will further confirm and trigger some places after independence in local communities. And I will also argue that you, Comrade Sok, mentioned Maribor that people from Maribor are moving to the countryside. Not just to the countryside. People from Maribor move to Ljubljana, to the city center, where capital is, where jobs are well paid, where unemployment is at a minimum, at 6% or nothing. That's the problem. Step on the highway or train and see how many people are looking for bread in Ljubljana in the morning. Why do they have to go to Ljubljana? Because they don't get bread in their environment. Likewise, congregations that are in those demographic environments or environments where the difference between central and other regions is so great that there are obviously such or other requirements, and that is the problem. Comrade Sok, once again, I would like to point out that I agree with you most of the time, but we need to find a way to sort this out. The first problem is funding. Provide financial resources. I do not think that there should be a problem if we provide additional, say, 10 billion or 15 billion, for the next financial year when the budget in the National Assembly, as far as the funding of the municipalities is concerned. The story will change completely. Because I agree with you, Comrade Sok, when you say that the congregations can manage well with money so that they can make two out of one. And not all mayors of city halls are the same. One can make two out of one tolar, the other possibly from one less and similar to where one is, we have such and different cases, and I don't want to name any mayor here. It is true, however, that in my personal opinion, the coalition in this place will have to approach the coalition treaty slightly differently, as far as the decentralisation of this country is concerned, even at the local level. I come from the environment - because colleague Friday already mentioned me today when we talked about rollers and bulldozers and I don't know what. If someone sends me a letter to the city of Maribor that puppet theatre is no longer a priority and the city of Maribor loses over 800 million, and the government has been in Maribor for a month and has spoken otherwise - my dears, I will react in this place before all of you in the way I know, with a parliamentary word. And that's not right. And I won't agree with that! Someone's been taking the dreams that they've been waiting for 10 years. Those children who waited 10 years ago were already adults. There are grandkids in the back. There are little kids who dream about puppet theaters. However, someone dares to send a letter to the mayor in the government that there is no longer a puppet theatre in priority because it is necessary to build and rebuild in central Slovenia, I do not know how many more objects. All right! I don't mind, just give the local community so much more money so that it can provide our children with the dreams they've been dreaming about for years. Next story. We're back at decentralisation. It won't be long before we lose the fund in Maribor for a small economy and development. I will resist this, this is not the work of the coalition and this is not in line with the coalition contract, if we have agreed to decentralisation, we will not drive funds and similar things from Maribor to central Slovenia or to those centres where unemployment is at a minimum or 6%. In Maribor we paid the price by holding, they took away Drava power plants, administration and everything, they took away our electricity, they cut off our Ministry of Small Economy and Development, now someone else will take away our fund for small economy and development, we lost our puppet theatre, and we could list, maybe by the end of my term. I will resist this, as I will defend that in the establishment of new municipalities it is necessary to approach these people systematically, professionally, argumentatively and there, because of such an area or another, to listen to those people. One of the options when we talk about the Kočevski River is that from the existing municipality, they are expelled and joined the neighbouring congregation, where the whole will be rounded up, and those who live there are also thinking about it, at least they have informed me about it. There will be no new local community, but it is likely to grow. This is all the problem of local communities on the one hand, the financing of municipalities, the provision of funds and, on the other hand, the government coalitions, as well as the opposition we are following. I would also like to conclude with this and also apologize if, at the same time, I have also replicated through my fellow Member Petk, who mentioned me earlier because of the roller and bulldozers in this way through the local community.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u248	Thank you very much. We are still discussing the amendment to Article 5. I'd read it again, please. "The National Assembly shall complete the procedure for changing the territory of the municipality or for the establishment of a new municipality no later than 6 months before the deadline set by the Law on Local Elections as the first time-limit for the call for regular elections to the municipal council." This is an amendment to Article 5. Please let us discuss the amendment to Article 5. Mr. Sok has the floor. You want a replica? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u249	Since my colleague Kangler mentioned me several times, I would, of course, like to point out once again, that when we rebalanced the funds for the municipalities we actually increased the funds for the municipalities, for those municipalities receiving financial compensation, we increased the principals by more than 7% in real terms. That's a fact. A decree is also being drawn up on the pay system for mayors who have been humiliated throughout these smaller municipalities through the payment system today, and this, of course, also needs to be rectified. I'm sorry if it wasn't for the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u250	Thank you very much. Mr. Marinic, you have the floor. Did you ask?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u251	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, distinguished minister with co-workers. I am pleased that we have also in some way departed only from the amendment, because I believe that in this context of the amendment to Article 5 is to say and, of course, add some other content. As for the amendment itself, I'd say I disagree. Of course, I would expect many other articles to be corrected. However I look, I am pleased that the words of Haloza have spoken out of the mouth of respected colleagues and colleagues on several occasions. On Saturday, the director of the Directorate of Tourism from the Ministry of Economy visited these places and finally told him that he felt he had been to Tuscany in Halo. And if I went back to the law that we are considering today, I would remind you of something that was wrong in the past; it was unfair in the part where, in the area of some places in Haloza, the people at the referendum decided that they wanted their congregation, even though the referendum was almost 100% adopted, but they were without their own congregation. Even today, when we consider possible adjustments, changes, unfortunately we will not allow these people to establish their own congregation. But I am confident that the current government, including the national assembly, will take care of what has been forgotten or abandoned in the past. As Comrade Sok said when you step into the city from the apartment, step in winter or in the rainy weather onto the asphalt. Unfortunately, people in Haloza and other parts of Slovenia enter the mud. I hope that we will find enough courage, understanding and good will to help these people to live a life that is solid and comparable to those living in the city. Of course, I am opposed to supporting the amendment to Article 5 proposed by the Liberal Democrats of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u252	Thank you very much. Mrs. Zalokar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u253	Thank you very much. I'll be brief. Mr President, the Vice-President would suggest that, given that we have been talking about this amendment for a long time, there are dilemmas. I am not a lawyer, and I may not be the right thing to do, but until today's decision on this amendment, in accordance with Article 73 of the Legislative and Legal Service: whether all matters relating to the elections and the establishment of new municipalities are aligned with the fact that one law with the transitional provisions governing this is, in fact, terminated or ceased to apply and that they tell us. I am also happy to admit my mistake, but, given that this can cause such great problems, we are going to call local elections in the next half of the year to get this opinion of the legal and legislative service and to clear this dilemma in this way. We were warned, and now there may have been something in between that is different, but I still have this dilemma. I still think that there are certain problems and that things are not harmonised, but they will cause great problems because it is difficult to talk like that, because everyone already knows that because it is logical - whether this thing is really coherent or not. While it is said to be terminated, I propose not to interrupt the meeting, but to obtain this opinion by decision at 2100 hours. I think that would solve this dilemma. I'm also not sure that I may have the right amendment and that it is necessary, but at least let's see if this is really the case, that this happens automatically when the election is called, and that there is no problem.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u254	Thank you. The word is wanted by a representative of the Ministry. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u255	Thank you. Look, Mrs Orzmova - not if you can listen to me, because it would probably be very right - I said it earlier, but now explicitly. In the light of the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, Article 35 was amended, in particular the second paragraph, which reads: "As from the date of the application of this Act, the fifth paragraph of Article 24 and Article 104(3) of the Law on Local Elections, which speaks..." I quote, first paragraph 24, fifth paragraph: "If the congregation is established after regular elections to the municipal councils, the first elections to the municipal council shall be held in accordance with the provisions of this law on early elections." It is therefore necessary to delete Article 24, paragraph 5, in the transitional provisions, in order to remedy this confusion that you are talking about. The same is true of the deletion of the third paragraph of Article 104, which speaks of the mayor's call for elections. Therefore, the Committee also followed the comments of the legislative and legal service and corrected this part of Article 35 in order to remedy this confusion, which you have probably already discussed three times today. In fact, if the municipality is established after the call for elections, it is only at the time of the call for the next election that this provision is not in force because it is repealed in Article 35. However, if any other explanation is necessary, I do not object to further questions about the legal and legislative service.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u256	Thank you very much. Mrs. Zalokar, do you insist on your request for a legislative and legal service?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u257	I propose, as stated in this article, that you also judge. Personally, I think it would be good to resolve this dilemma and not harm those three sentences if they said everything was okay. By insisting.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u258	You insist on your request. Well, then this is referred to in Article 66, paragraph five: "If the President considers that a certain legal question must be resolved at the meeting..." That's what I'm gonna do. And if necessary, the legislative and legal service will inform me of this before the decision is taken, and so will you. Is he okay? Thank you. Mrs. Potter has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u259	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to take the proposal for an amendment to Article 5 of the Act. In fact, I support this amendment, although there is some uncertainty as to whether the matter is otherwise resolved or not. However, while the time for the creation or for the introduction of initiatives stretches so far over the entire period, it is right that there is a clear record of safeguards and I also support this decision of yours to call on the legislative and legal service to assess the appropriateness of the solution. Why is that? I also took part in a meeting of the Local Self-Government Committee and yesterday's experience teaches us that some of the warnings of the legal services were not taken into account and that we later had to change some things, in fact under another law, but a person cannot shake the feeling that the great enthusiasm I see in this national assembly is for the creation of new congregations the one who confused the clarity of the idea of whether or not someone had determined clearly enough. We should also make our observations on the debates that are being heard today. If former fellow Member Tone Partlič were here, I'd say we've heard a lot of "cofabolising" today. It is because I cannot shake off the feeling that everyone has taken advantage of their five minutes for their local environment and made sure that voters at home applauded the positions expressed. However, the question remains whether by such an open procedure for the creation of new municipalities without borders, which we will also talk about later, or whether with a very low border in favour of the development of Slovenia and whether all comparisons that could be heard are appropriate. Because when we talk about the size of congregations in other countries and in other continents, we also need to know what the jurisdiction of those congregations is. However, the undeniable fact is that there are municipalities in a different position of self-financing than those with different conditions and that in this country, the law on local self-government is not favourable to the municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u260	Thank you very much. Mr Gulic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u261	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, colleagues, Mr. Secretary. I am very pleased that you have decided, on the proposal of colleague Zalockareva, to obtain the opinion of the Commission because this thing has become somewhat bizarre. We are talking about a lot of things, and it is clear that all of these restrictions that we set are not actually limitations, but they are stimulations. And it would be really nice to hear, but we're talking about more municipalities in Slovenia. Where this number will go, I do not know, according to the current proposal, is the upper limit of 1000 municipalities, 2 million us, 2000 people in the municipality, saying 1000 municipalities, which is still very few in some way. In Slovenia, one of the most common names is Zupan or Župan, 3,500 people have this last name and I think everyone wants their own congregation - but a joke to the side. Despite the fact that we want more congregations, it would be good to do the "Cum grano salis" thing. Perhaps the number of citizens is not what it would set out - we have heard before, with everything the congregation should deal with, but we have also heard many wishes, as well as that people want some, of course, congregations. This probably applies more to rural areas where people already live in some integrated, connected communities. Otherwise, it is, of course, in urban environments, where this division is meaningless and in some ways even more unproductive than it already is. These congregations, too, are not cared for by law in these changes. In no way: without spreading them, nor being resuscitated, they have no possibility, in fact, of becoming a city congregation. We know that according to the current legislation, many or most of them do not comply with these criteria. Of course, no one here wanted to have fun with it. That's it. Thank you very much. I will say this: I will support the amendment if, of course, the legislative and legal commission decides it is appropriate. If she says she doesn't need it, of course she doesn't. And I think that's the smartest thing to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u262	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate on the amendment to Article 5. I am putting to the debate Article 15 and the amendment of the LDS Group of Members of the Social Democrats and the LDS Group of Members. Who wants a word? Mr. Kontic, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u263	Thank you very much. The amendment tabled in Article 15 was already mentioned in the introduction and did not receive the majority required at the meeting of the parent working body. With this amendment, we want to maintain the current regime when the mayor elects from among his own representatives, of his own kind, on the proposal of the mayor, the municipal council. The proposal, which is now proposed in the law, regulates this matter by appointing the mayor himself. The only obligation is that he is a member of the Council or that he is a member of the Council. We think, or I believe, that the current mode of regulation is somehow - and it is probably not the right expression - of force, but it encourages the participation of the mayor and the world and that at the local level it is not possible to draw these divisions as harshly as it is drawn on a state level where we have legislative authority on the one hand and executive power on the other. So this arrangement kind of calls for cooperation. And, of course, I also find it very difficult to imagine, although I know that there are some cases in Slovenia when the mayors are not appointed, but there are also no coalitions there. And at each meeting, the mayor specifically seeks support for his proposals, which is a very difficult job. In the event that our amendment is not adopted, I certainly support the LDS amendment, which regulates the matter slightly differently, gives the mayor one year to find a solution with the world that is somehow acceptable to both. In the event that the solution is not found, after one year the mayor chooses or appoints the mayor himself. When the mayor appoints his mayor, of course, that means that he is primarily his assistant, but he loses the breadth that the mayor now has when he is called the congregation council.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u264	Thank you very much. Mr. Milan Petek has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u265	Thank you, Mr. Clavor. Some of this has already been said by Mr Kontic, what was our reason for making the amendment. We did not pretend that the ruling coalition would accept, conditionally speaking, the radical amendment put by Mr Kontic, who is actually returning the situation to the state of affairs, to the kind of legislation that it is today. If that were the case, we would not change this article or write it the way they wrote it, so we looked for a solution in a slightly different way and estimated that this could be acceptable to both the government or the minister and the coalition. We wanted to run out of time when the municipal council was being set up, when the mayor started working, and if in this year no agreement was found, a mutual agreement had to be made, especially political, that the mayor had the opportunity to appoint the mayor himself. As colleague Kontič said earlier, we all forget that city councillors are elected in elections, that in some environments the saints are large, in some municipalities small. And in some congregations, such as Maribor, there are 45 saints. And these 45 saints are after most of the members of some political parties. We are confident that by such an article as the government has now proposed and by rejecting our amendment, we will evaluate the role of saints. They went to run for office because they felt that they could, with their political, professional, intellectual, I don't know what, knowledge, help with the work of the municipal administration, the work of the mayor. Now, in fact, this option will not be possible because we take away one part of this competence, which we think is very important for them to decide as politicians. And by doing so, you forget, dear colleagues, that you come from these environments. In these settings, you may have some ambitions to come to these congregational councils. You probably have ambitions with some of your other colleagues and you're taking them in some way, some possibility, some credibility in such a way that you give the mayor the right to choose your own parishioner. Yeah, you're supposed to be choosing the mayor. It will happen that someone will do it in his own way, and I think you have evaluated yourself for this role that they should have in the congregation or in the city’s councils. I don't know how you know and how you're experienced in these areas, but the fact is, from my experience, I find that slow city councilors will really become nothing more than handpickers just because some act has to be adopted, because some decision has to be taken because the budget has to be adopted. This active role, which could be played as saints, even through the parishioners, will get you to the point where you will experience my opinion at the end of your own client colleagues' perception. Here we have seen the opportunity and opportunity to give a politician, on the one hand in the municipal councils, who cannot deal with a mayor who cannot find a consensus, who obviously cannot function by consensus, but the mayor will decide after this year how and which of the types of saints he will appoint. What if he happens to name someone from the so-called yesterday, from your point of view, contested pages? Will you be pleased with this parishioner? He chose someone from the letters you tried to make yesterday's law to prevent him from coming to the municipal council, but now this mayor is going to choose exactly the kind of person you take this right from. As politicians, then, will you be satisfied with this situation? For this reason, I think we are wrong to accept the thesis or the law as the government put it into procedure. I think it would be helpful to attract what we have suggested. In fact, in this way we still have some balance between the two organs, both elected, so we get this balance back by weight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u266	Would you like a word, Mr. Secretary? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u267	Thank you for your word. To this end, I would say that at the moment, 11 congregations are not even under the parishioners at all. and that the purpose of this proposal was to ensure the smooth functioning of the municipalities. We had quite a few problems when it happened that the mayor did not have a congregation for such or other reasons, and then there were disputes from the courts and whatever you want. And, of course, as far as the municipal council is concerned, this right is taken and the mayor is soon granted this right to appoint himself a mayor, but from the councilors of the municipal council. He's still a saint. And this is the elected councilman in the election. With regard to the basic rights of the municipal council or city councils, however, it remains fully and, of course, in these basic programming documents, such as, say, the budget of the municipality, still governed by the municipal council. And it is probably what is fundamental to each congregation individually. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u268	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Saivitz. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u269	Thank you very much, Mr President, Minister, colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! Of course, this topic of mayors and mayors is interesting. The Minister encouraged me to discuss this with this statement that you do not yet have sub-districts in 11 Slovenian municipalities. And I'm going to tell you something else about such a broad debate. But we have four parishioners in the Market, and we'll lend you one. In our country, however, the branch institute has used it to buy political loyalty. The mayors have some specific duties and they have no work, but the municipal budget, which is in trouble, eats 150 thousand gross a month. That's the other side of the medal so you know where these things can go. Therefore, this amendment seems to me to some extent reasonable and I will also support it if, after one year, there is no solution to the mayor's actions. However, other extremes need to be considered, and perhaps once again, because I am just saying that at the Ministry you are also interested in how local self-government is taking place in some municipalities. I come from a municipality of 15,000 people, 13 local communities. We haven't spoken to the mayor in seven years. And then it is no wonder that there is a tendency to establish new and new congregations. And when I mentioned at the last meeting of the municipal council, if we made a scenario in the municipal administration, how much money the congregation gets, if we divided it into two or three units, and you have to believe me that luckily I survived this debate, because there is no greater villain than the one who is trying to establish his and the new congregation. I am pleased that I have also received this confirmation from my colleagues from the coalition parties, that if the law gives this possibility that people have the right to talk about it everywhere. And you will also see, although this article is not being debated, and I will refer to it indirectly, for normal municipalities where communication in politics is as normal, then this addition to Article 10 is purely normal, that is to say legal transactions are accepted only with the knowledge of mayors. I expect and in most of Slovenia's legal affairs of local communities. And in most Slovene municipalities, I think that they will agree on a budget for some amount, but to which the presidents and the saints of the local communities have their own. But you must have forgotten this possibility of what will happen where the mayor will not put it in the budget debate. And there, for every public lighting bill, for the phone, for 2,500 tolars, we'll go to the mayor's knees to get him to sign. These are certain anomalies in local self-government that we will not and cannot save today. I took this opportunity for those of you who are involved in this to think about such extraordinary cases that you find in the newspapers under the heading: No, it is not true. However, I must say that I can write from my 12-year career as a councilman for one set of such matters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u270	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u271	I'd like to point out a few more facts. [[...]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u272	I'm asking for peace! Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u273	Also in your municipality Tržič were elected mayor and municipal council. With regard to the four parishioners, since there is still an old arrangement in force in the marriage, your congregation council itself has confirmed them. But as for responsibility, I know two kinds of responsibilities, according to my assessment. One is the penalty where exactly how and what is known in individual cases. The other one's political. Every four years, they go to elections and there they evaluate the citizens of the individual municipality and also the citizens of that policy. And if they are satisfied with someone, then I say to them in general that we understand each other, they confirm the next term of office if they are not satisfied, and in the elections they say they do not trust him by electing another candidate. And look, I'm saying it again. We need to be aware of what the autonomy of local self-government means. We have to go this way, I think. We are in Slovenia with some solutions far from this story. We can't interfere with everything that's going on from the National Assembly. The municipalities must not only speak about rights, but must also assume responsibilities from their address and work and with an appropriate level of responsibility at a certain level, in a certain way, by all those elected to do so.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u274	Thank you very much. Mr. Prevc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u275	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. A respected minister with co-workers! Actually, as mayor, I have to check in with you at this point. I must say that, in accordance with and during the coordination of this law, as well as the search for the best options, I have spoken to many mayors throughout Slovenia. I must say that with this change brought about by this law, it is said that the mayor himself can directly name a parishioner from among the members of the municipal council. Especially because of the very bad experiences they have in this area. The fact is, if such a change, which is indicated somewhere now by this change of law, had been introduced somewhere before, then in Maribor, what we heard earlier, where the parishioners do not have, they would not have broken the law for three years. As mayor myself, I've had practically one year's trouble naming a mayor. And I have to say, I was deeply disappointed by the local government at the time, if you want me to break the law. Of course, if legislation speaks of a congregation having at least one or more parishioners, then of course this legislation must be respected. Because we know why she's in the basement. This is said, if something happens to the mayor, then, of course, the mayor is the one who also replaces him somewhere under the mayor's law. However, the fact is that so far many mayors have called the mayors mainly for the sake of seeking political peace. Then, of course, it happened that the mayor named practically from each opposition party after one of the parishioners, that, of course, he had political peace in particular. And we know the mayor costs a lot, too. And if, of course, the parishioner is already to be paid, it is also good that the mayor of the county employs, that, of course, the mayor of the congregation also actively cooperates. And last but not least, he's active. But so the mayor can hire his parishioner, and he still has a way of trusting him. It is said that he must truly choose the parishioner himself, of his own free will, to trust each other, that this parishioner is not instigated, as is often the case, that they are not eventually at the same wavelength, and that of course they can work. At least that's what happens in small congregations. That is why, of course, I still agree with this amendment brought about by this amendment to the law. I will not support either the first amendment or the second amendment to Article 15, because more or less of these two amendments maintain the same state as before. Most mayors also agree that something needs to be changed on this segment. And these changes are actually on the table here. I will, of course, support them with the novelty of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u276	Thank you very much. Mr. Janc, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u277	Thank you very much again. I must say that the dictatorship proposed by the government is a step forward in local self-government, for sure. This is not only my opinion, but the opinion of many Slovenian mayors from the south-eastern region, where I come from. This is what was a major problem in many Slovene municipalities. I do not speak for my congregation, Sevnica, because we do not have these problems. But there is also a problem, as I said, because there are still 11 congregations without a parishioners. However, let us remember the story of the municipality of Brežica not so long ago how complicated it was when the mayor left for the minister and when the mayor did not have a parishioner, how things got complicated, complicated. In short, the matter was very strange, for for many years they did not want to name either the parishioner or the other. The matter was quite difficult and complicated, in a large congregation such as Brežice. If in some way we can compare the municipality with the company, with one big difference that it does not generate income to just spend it, this mayor is loved in direct elections, so he is responsible, he was given a mandate. And it is right that, like the director of a company, you create your own team of close associates and responds to the owners and the supervisory board for their results, so in the first place the mayor and his team are the ones and others who are responsible for the programme they have set up in their mandate. I think this thing is totally drinking water. In the end, he will be making accounts over the years whether he has been successful or not. I was fortunate enough to choose two very good parishioners, one from the position, the other from the opposition, and if I share a little more geographically, from the left and right banks of the Sava, and I have to say that I work perfectly with them. Especially now that I am far less present in the congregation because I am already here. And I think they're doing their job more than successfully, they're loyal, cooperative, and we're gonna make all the major points in the mayor's and the mayor's circuit. And that's what makes me think that for a well-organized community and local self-government, it's very important to whom the mayor trusts that in his absence he can successfully replace him and advocate his program, his vision, and not least what the municipal council of that local community gives him. Therefore, I will certainly not support the amendments to Article 15 because they do not seem appropriate to me by any means, since they do not come from life or from practice. I advocate the views of those many mayors from the south-eastern region, where I come from, that this dictatorship is more than good and that it will be a good trip for future mayors and future mayors to appoint teams that are very important for the leadership of each local community. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u278	Thank you very much. Mr. Mikolitch has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u279	Thank you very much. I am looking at the amendment of the new law from a completely practical point of view. In the New Slovenia Group we support what the government has proposed. In view of the discussions of some of the predecessors, it should somehow be clear to us that the municipal council, on the one hand the mayor and on the other, is one legislative branch of power and the other the executive branch of authority. In fact, I do not imagine that the legislative branch of power or ten or twenty saints would help the executive branch of the authority to carry out concrete tasks so that this task will be carried out more effectively. Somehow that's how one comment went. In fact, I would like to say that as far as it is concerned, it can be a "executive" branch of authority within a certain period of time or, in a certain need, under the terms of the term. That means he can be of great help to the mayor. I also have to mention that the mayor is very good at replacing me. And here is the very important thing, either how or in what way he's called a mayor. And this proposal now brings this solution so that there will be no problem that certain municipalities will be without the parishioners, and of course it also makes it possible for the mayor to benefit from it either from the parishioners or from the parishioners. This is precisely why we will not support the amendment proposed by the SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u280	Thank you very much. Mr. Milan Petek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u281	LDS. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u282	Thank you. I fully understand that Members of the People's Party cannot speak differently than the proposer, because we know where he was meant to be. I think everyone's moving in together. You're all moving together because you're creating a literal position of untouchable to the mayors. Mr. Secretary said that 11 congregations have no sub-districts. Eleven congregations of 193 make an exception. I'm sorry, we're writing a new law for exceptions. That's exactly what our purpose was. If any exceptions arise, and 11 exceptions are from 193, let's give them a year's time to find out that they don't find a common language, then these 11 exceptions will be forced to accept within a year's time that the mayor will appoint the parishioners. That's all that was meant to be. And if this isn't the most normal, most understandable purpose, then it just occurred to me that you're getting involved in this story. Because you have mayors, most mayors, you want to protect these mayors in this way, Mr. Prevc himself has confirmed what his purpose is, and unfortunately there are too many mayors in this national council. I strongly and sincerely hope that a law will be passed in this National Assembly which will prohibit, at least in larger municipalities, the compatibility of the mayoral and parliamentary functions. That's what I said from my point of view, that's not the position of Liberal Democracy. [[...]] [[Laugh.]] [[...]] Mr Žagar spoke of the fundamental rights that remain, the saints. Yeah. Only these fundamental rights are slowly becoming unequal in relation to or to those fundamental rights enjoyed by the mayor. This is also reflected in Article 29 of this same article, which speaks in article 90b of sanctioning the work of mayors or the work of municipal councils. The municipal world is much earlier, much faster, or much easier. The mayor can't even be relieved. Be real. And we, later on, will meet with the amendment, talked about at least adopting such an amendment text that would determine whether or not it would give the mayor the opportunity to resolve himself even if he did not propose those documents and acts where he is the only candidate. I'm illustrating this, I could do it later, but I want to illustrate how we're not in an equal position as municipal councilors and as mayors. This mayor doesn't give a budget where he's the only one proposing, and that's why he's not getting rid of it. And this is a fundamental error and a fundamental difference between our interpretation of what is the equality of these people. If you're saying that the mayor is also responsible for his actions, then the mayor is also responsible. No, it's not. If he does not submit the budget, there is no sanction. There's no sanction in the law. Someone said he was sanctioning himself. The law has no sanctions and therefore we think it would be necessary for saints to have the same position as the mayor in order to protect them in such a way that they can be politically enforced. That's why I say, I guess, yeah, you don't mean to be all the mayors. Give political effect to those who are your colleagues and satisfy themselves with a lower level, level of active political work. By taking the opportunity to decide for yourselves about the mayor after this year, clearly, this is our proposal, you will take one part of the motive to run for municipal councils. That's all that was meant to be. For this reason, I suggest you reconsider this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u283	Thank you very much. Mr. Pache, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u284	Your Honors are here! In the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group, we will support the first amendment to this Article. We come from a different dimension, as it has been exposed several times, partly by speakers on the left or on the right. We are convinced that the purpose of all of us is to have the congregation or local community act primarily in the sense that it bears some kind of consensus. And the consent to work also represents the appointment of the mayor. According to our assessment, it is necessary for individual projects to come from the necessary majority. And if the undersecretary does not carry the majority, the question is whether the individual projects under the jurisdiction of this sub-district will carry the majority required for admission. On the other hand, it is important to say that we are afraid that the possible adoption of a copy or an existing bill would lead to some kind of non-essential, exclusively pre-election coalition starting to be linked and that the subsequent four-year period, in spite of the minority government in a particular place or in a municipality, would be dominated by individual projects. Therefore, we estimate that the search for a consensus, which represents half of the members of a particular municipal council, is still a better system where effort is needed, to take a step further in making projects for areas, for the individual work of a particular parishioner easier to implement. And we believe that it is much more reasonable at the outset to take a step forward in organizing the local community itself so that the projects carried out by the mayor himself in a particular city, the congregation, would be easier to carry out. On the other hand, as I mentioned earlier, as a result of the proposal for a law, a basic law, we could also come to that undesirable level in order to have subordinates who do not have support. So, in other words, what would be the problem, according to the Slovenian National Party's assessment, is that projects in individual cities would not have support and that the city or municipality would stagnate solely because they would come from some kind of government, a minority government which has also elected a narrower working leadership of the mayor in the same way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u285	Thank you very much. There's a word for Mrs. Master of Purgatory. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u286	Thank you. A few previous discussions have encouraged me to support the amendment of my parliamentary group, but if this is not voted on, I will support the amendment of the Liberal Democracy. Why? Every beggar praises his little one, they say. And it was mentioned that the mayor would have his mayor. But I do not see the local community as a company, nor as a private project of a group of people who decided to form a congregation, and then it is clear that it also wants to have its compatible parishioner, which can be achieved quickly in small environments. For I believe that the local community must act in the public interest and that the mayor must therefore propose to the city or municipal council from the saints of the parishioners. But it is in the world that this proposal is accepted and endorsed. In politics, however, negotiation is very important and credibility gives the mayor only an election in the municipal council. For me, it is much more problematic that in some environments functions accumulate and then, due to the accumulation of functions, there is often a large number of sub-districts. And these burden the municipal budget, and it would be better if things were arranged differently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u287	Thank you very much. Mr Kontic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u288	The mayor should be given the opportunity to appoint such a person or a member of the parishioner so that he can benefit from it. It's not the mayor's benefit, it's the local community's benefit, it's supposed to be. The County Budget costs the same, no matter who calls it. Appointment only because we have it, but of course it is very controversial. The parishioners have been forced into the area. It is not possible, not after the present, not under the new regime, if the mayor is principled and does not consent to blackmail. Of course, those who imposed on the existing system will not be blackmailing any less after the new system. They're not going to be with the mayors, they're going to be with individual projects. Asking the mayors if they supported this proposal, but it was a waste of effort. Asking someone whether he supported a proposal that gave him more powers and took on others was, of course, really a waste of effort. The mayors agree, at least after what I have heard today, although I have little doubt that this solution proposed by the government is more acceptable to them. If I were the mayor, I'd certainly like the mayor to appoint the world. But a sub-district to which individual projects will be linked, which, of course, will be agreed in the local community, but not just so. And when we talk about that this is not in accordance with the law and that the law is being broken, sanctions are known if legislation is being violated in the local community. The objective of the amendment, which we have tabled, once again, is to cooperate, to strengthen cooperation between the Council and the mayor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u289	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u290	I will not support this amendment, although in a sense, given the experience I have in my 13th or 14th - year work in the congregation world, I would agree that it would be what it is. It is said that the parishioner is called the congregation council. I would actually be even more comfortable with it, and I would be even more comfortable with it if I even called the mayor a municipal council. Then, in a number of congregations, there would be no major opposition, since the mayor would in any case have a majority in the congregation. At this point, when we have the solution we have, of course, there is no problem if we give the mayor this opportunity to choose for himself. It is true, though, that the matter of how many members of the congregation may have to be settled in marriage. For what some of you have found, Comrade Saiovic, I would suggest to him if it is unsustainable in Tržič, that he might come and see what the matter in Ormož looks like. The fact that the mayor of the market is always in the same political option is written about, and our closet moves from customer to client, and it doesn't say anything in the media. But nothing's better, you know. I'd say it's cruelly the same. Voters are the ones who judge. And I think when one face is finally "believed", it gets tired, then, of course, they replace it in elections. And that is, there are no other options. Until then, it is only necessary to live by what the electorate has chosen, and then, of course, to take that into account. So, we will reject this proposal from the Liberal Democracy and remain in this proposal prepared by the government, so that we can leave this dilemma to the appointment of mayors. And, of course, the mayor will be, if he's a wise man or a blue woman, then of course he'll always appoint someone who's acceptable to the majority. If not, such a member of the congregation will, of course, meet with opposition in the congregation. And I can't imagine how it could work in any way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u291	Thank you very much. Mr. Steba has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u292	Thank you very much. I was now writing a mandate because I have no parishioner and at seven o’clock a meeting of the congregation council begins. However, I have been trying for five years in these six years to ask the council to propose a suitable candidate to choose from their proposals someone I will appoint as a mayor. In these five years, when I have repeatedly asked them to do so, none of the council groups has proposed their candidate as a mayor. They didn't even propose. But because the opposition has a majority when I chose and decided to be one of the candidates, but I didn't want to choose the mayor from my client because I didn't think it was hygienic, but they refused me the only candidate I offered to deal with. Then I tried, and I'm still asking them, and this request is still open, and I don't have a parishioner when I propose it, and they don't approve it. This is just one case, and all the rest have already been told by colleagues and colleagues. There are many cases in this country where the chosen mayor no longer corresponds to the mayor and he just vegetates and pulls out his salary or the meeting he has. I advocate and hope that in the following versions of this law a system will be introduced, and I have already proposed that at least at the beginning of the term, the mayor, who was elected directly by his development programme, with which he was likely to have been elected in the elections, may apply it at least at the beginning of the mandate by means of a majority in the municipal world. The French case, a German case where the mayors are not directly elected, but the system of division of the mandate is such that the mayor's party has half of the mandate at the beginning of the term of office plus the relatively number of mandates his client receives in the elections. The solution, which is now proposed, will solve at least these dilemmas, which are sometimes with games with the parishioners - whether they do not confirm it when you propose it, or not even propose it, or then it is not possible for the mayor to be the highest chairman and the most responsible person in the congregation to decide how long he will work with a certain parishioner. However, the number of sub-districts is a matter of assessing the municipal councils and the costs involved. How highly these parishioners will be rewarded, as will the saints. I wouldn't limit things here either. It is a matter of municipal councillors and, of course, of voters who assess such or other meetings or costs associated with the work of individual members in the municipal council or in the municipal administration.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u293	Thank you very much. Mr. Janc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u294	Thank you very much again. I also respect the view differently, the thinking of others, from a different environment, from different congregations, from a different developmental and different perspective in those congregations. That's perfectly normal and logical. But I have to say, when a man decides to run and when he can run and he's elected, it's a long and difficult road. It's not simple and simple. If you get people's majority trust that they believe in you, in your program, in your vision, then I think it's a good idea that you have a word to decide who will be your close associate. I think it's perfectly normal, correct, but let's take this step so that the municipality doesn't have the big problems they've had and still have Slovenian municipalities, that they don't have a deputy mayor, that they don't have a parishioner. That's how they'll have it. Anyone elected to the local elections for the mayor of Slovenia, however, will be smart enough to choose the best, because without good participation in the municipal council, the program will simply not be able to carry out. Of course, and the next term will be no more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u295	Thank you. Mrs. Uhan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u296	Thank you very much. Nicely greeted! I wasn't going to call, but there's so much talk about mayors and mayors. Let me say that I will not support the proposed amendment. I also come from a congregation where for three years we did not have any parishioners, nor did the mayors recently, because she resigned and put into great uncertainty the municipal council, as well as the municipal administration, how to proceed. Well, then the saints elected the deputy mayor, or mayor, who is now in charge of matters. I think it is wrong that it was not a parishioner, because especially in large municipalities where the mayor does not perform his duties professionally, it is right that he has his deputies, as well as in situations where someone decides to resign. That's why I think it's right. I don't know why the mayor didn't appoint the mayor, but I think it's because she didn't trust anyone or expected the municipal council not to support her if she's going to propose someone she wants. That's why I think it's right that the mayor chooses the parishioners. At the same time, I would like to say that when you have so much concern about the new municipalities that there was also an LDS representative from our municipality on the balcony, it is sad that he had to come to the New Slovenia Group and lobby here to support the law under consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u297	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I'm sorry. [[...]] Mr. Milan Petek has another word.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u298	I don't mean to be silly, but I'm stubborn anyway. So you don't want to hear me. In fact, you've all confirmed my words that you're aware of the need to have a parishioner, we're just thinking differently about how to get to them. When you were talking about co-existence, you should first check to see if there is a co-existence between the world and the mayor. And that's what we've been doing for a year. That's what we suggested. If there is no co-existence, choose the mayor after a year. That's all this was about this amendment of ours, not denying the role of mayors, not in any other way hurting. In fact, you've all confirmed this in your statements. And there's another detail. What we're doing now with a mayor in this same marriage, yeah, because who's gonna want to be a mayor? We're already lowering his salary! So you will have the opportunity to choose those parishioners who will actually have no other motive than to get a paycheck there instead of having good parishioners, i.e. with wages and good saints; that is the situation. But I have a solution for Mr Štebet: let's change the law on mayoral elections. As you said, we are going to the election in another way, so let the saints elect mayors where it is appropriate, so at the level of municipalities that are larger, and let these mayors be elected directly where the municipalities are smaller. Then there won't be a problem. So the mayor will be elected in the appropriate manner. And there's another solution for you, Mr. Stabe, who doesn't have a parishioner. Don't sit in two chairs, be the mayor, and don't sit here. Or sit here and don't be the mayor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u299	Thank you very much. It happens, you know. Please give me your word. Mr. Saiovic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u300	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I thought you'd finished the debate, but thank you very much. To enhance this debate, which is about to end. Today it was often heard that, say, if the mayor did something in his own way, then four years later he wouldn't be there. I must tell you that you are living in some confusion, because all things in life with some, and also elections, can unfortunately also be bought with the municipal budget. I come from a municipality where the mayor has the authority to have 20% of the budget at his discretion. Some of my colleagues don't believe me. In the municipality of Tržič we have this in the budget and each year a coalition with 4 coalition sub-regions, none of the opposition, this of course confirms generously and our budget is 2 thousand 500 million. With 500 million, the mayor has his own judgment. And that, I think, is the money that we use to influence the electorate indirectly, to understand each other. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u301	Thank you. Mr. Steba has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u302	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I will respond a little to the debate by my kind, Mr Petko. Look, I hear a lot about a policy of general agreement, consensus, non-confrontation and so on. Only in politics and in life do we have different views and have to face them. In my case, I have a perfectly clear conscience because I've invited all the councilmen to propose. None of them suggested it. My own girl didn't want to propose to the mayor. And if not so many secular groups respond to propose, try to propose, and then fail to confirm the selected candidate, there are other reasons and some other games and some different guesses. I'm saying that with regard to the acquisition of functions, that's certainly not what we want. And I don't want that either. But sometimes something like that happens in life. We have worse cases where some or some Members of Parliament have been in many larger congregations, which are more difficult to control, or there is, or goes, or does not go by the appointment of a parishioner. However, I thought, Mr Petek, that at the beginning of his term the mayor would have the majority of himself in the municipal world. Not in the way that you think you would abolish the mayor's election directly, because in Slovenia I do not think it is possible to abolish this, but to do so in another way, that the mayor or mayor's candidate has a defined political party at the time of his candidacy, which then supports him in this way, and that even in the municipal world gets half the mandates, automatically by electing the mayor. In this way, many of the problems that occur in Slovenia, where political culture occurs, despite the fact that it is also at the level of the middle or smaller municipalities, sometimes translates into unintentional opposition and speculation, irrespective of the political consequences of one or the other, regardless of the economic difficulties. This is the first start to resolve the appointment of a sovereign appointment, or the discharge of a sub-district, a sub-district, a sub-district, by the mayor, who is only the most responsible function. So I am absolutely in favour of the solution that is now proposed in the law, and I will oppose any change in that sense. However, I am, of course, advocating in the following amendments to the law also such movements as will address some of the problems that are going on. The search for consensus, the application of a system that was self-governance, we all decide, we all make a decision by consensus, but one, and one called, is not in modern societies. In modern societies there are some positive debates, different views that lead to better solutions. And that, either in this House or within the coalition or the opposition. We have to enforce that. It is true, however, that as a group sometimes enforce things in a way, with some common consensus reached, that we can move things at all in a step that can only be changed. In my case, the issue was also politicized by the media, unilaterally presented. The opposition's actions in this direction were, however, also a reason to prevent or reduce the chances of elections in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u303	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate on the amendments to Article 15. I would like to inform you that, in view of Mrs Zalockareva's request for the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Commission, this will be submitted in due time to the table. However, if you get involved, you will be informed in time of the position of the legal and legal service before the decision is taken.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u304	We are moving on to the debate on the amendment to Article 29. The amendment was tabled by the parliamentary group of Social Democrats. It is also about the amendment tabled by the LDS Parliamentary Club. Who wants a word? Mrs. Zalokar, please. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u305	Thank you very much. I think that one of the most dangerous solutions brought by the amendment of the law on local self-government is precisely the question of early discharge of the mayor. We are talking about a function that we are very critical of many times, and it has been repeatedly said that the mayors are protected as bears, in fact no one can harm them and so on. I'd like to explain this a little bit longer. I'm sure things are gonna change from where I'm standing. However, it will change in a way that will in fact allow for the politicisation of the mayor's discharge. First, as far as the reasons for the resolution are concerned, these reasons are open-ended and can be interpreted in very different ways. This is the case for reasons such as non-execution of decisions of the Constitutional Court and judicial decisions of the Court and, under the second indent, if the judicial authority decides unlawfully to dispose of municipal property. Of course, no limit has been written anywhere in this second indent, which is now a negative disposition. Of course, we can have a negative disposition of several thousand tolars, a few hundred thousand tolars, millions or billions. And I believe that it can be said that every disposition is illegal, but it seems to me that this matter is too extensive. Given that the solution is proposed by the government, it is decided by the National Assembly, which, in my opinion, are two highly politically conditioned bodies and are somehow dependent on the current majority, in one way or another, it can become very dangerous at a certain point. My assessment is that an absolute discharge and a discharge procedure should be carried through the judicial branch of power. This was also the original proposal proposed by the Government and amended in later versions and laid down this competence, and on a proposal from the Government, it is decided by the State Assembly. It does not seem good to me that it would be better to seek analogy here with other functions, because it is a direct election, and with the President of the State, who is also directly elected, or whether the Constitutional Court decides to do so. While the Constitutional Court is also in the final stage of its judgment, this is true, but the reasons why the mayor may be proposed to be dismissed are such that, if there is the slightest possibility of that being the case, it will also be constitutionally clear from this point of view. Once again, I feel that the mayors will be the most sanctioned officials in this country, none of the other officials for failing to comply with the decisions of the Constitutional Court or for reasons of illegal availability have written that it will be automatic or that the discharge procedure begins. It's a more moral matter, it's a matter for every official to actually decide for himself. And apparently, in this country, we've decided to start with the mayors. These will be the ones who will be written in the law to initiate a resolution procedure if any of these violations are established, with a number of officials in that country who would have lost their position in the past or in the present. That is why I find it too restrictive and also bad, because the matter is being passed on to a political level, it is decided on a political level and believe me, today I have already said one bet to conclude, and another one, I am sure that the government will never bring not only now, even in the future, if any other, a proposal is never made to the state council for the discharge of the mayor from the coalition. Never, I hope to sign this bet today, and in this I think the essence of politicisation, will the coalition never bring its own mayor and propose that the mayor, who is a member of her client, be dismissed. And I'm hoping to make that bet today. I am sure that this will not happen either in this or in the coming term. And in that sense, it's a bad solution. I think that such things, such serious interventions in directly elected functions as the mayor who is directly elected, must be absolutely linked to the form of the judiciary. Here I have seen colleagues from Social Democracy propose an administrative court, we are constitutional. I think that either of these two solutions is better than the national assembly, rather than an extremely political party body, in which different forms of resolution can also take place, i.e. political resolution. What I see today in recent weeks as things happen in Slovenia, I am no longer sure that this will not extend to the field of local communities or to the field of mayors, perhaps very soon when this option is given.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u306	Thank you, Mrs. Zalokarev. Mrs. Purgatory, did you get that? [[No, no, ……]] Mrs. Pechanova, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u307	I don't have much time, so I'll talk fast. I support the amendment to Article 29 tabled by my parliamentary group, especially because the mayor does not have a reason why the municipal council, this is the second indent of paragraph 1, does not accept the budget. It can happen that the municipal council cannot decide on the adoption of the budget if the mayor does not propose it at all. And what I know has happened a lot in the last 10 years. Thus, it would make sense to also sanction the mayor who, for example, does not propose to the municipal council a budget for [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] the year in which the budget should be adopted. [[...]] The same goes for the mayor to violate human rights and freedoms by means of his individual act. In fact, it is not only the municipal council that can stricken them, but also the mayor himself, so I believe that these can be two valid reasons why it is also necessary to consider the discharge of the mayor in such a case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u308	Thank you, Mrs. Pecans. Anybody else want some? Mr. Stab, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u309	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I have a lot of experience here, too. My position is that I will not support these two amendments. My view is that for the first time, it is shameful and is not an honor to work and burden a constitutional court to deal with such municipal matters. We should have a different institute here, in fact, to prevent such violations. Not only has someone done something that should be done by procedure and by law, but that something has been done wrong. Such things, like in France, prevent prefects from intervention. In so-called autonomy or in the local authorities, when they detect a recorded breach, they intervene and correct it, so that the cases do not proceed to the courts, except to the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court is the supreme judicial institution and there are top judicial experts. Secondly, I am sure, and I will also bet with my colleague, Mayor Zalokarje, that even if the matter comes to the National Assembly, it is unlikely that the mayor or the municipal council will be dismissed. The most operational solution is now in the law as it is. But I plead for a solution, as I mentioned it, is a true prevention of illegality. In my case, the Constitutional Court was unable to rule on the material part of the judgment because the municipal council failed to meet the procedural conditions. It's a two-time case on the municipal council. That's what he says. He played everything. He prevented the budget from being adopted. And in order for the Constitutional Court to reach a decision and decide as an independent body, the same cause prevented this by not allowing the procedural conditions to be met. I've become almost a lawyer, haven't I, in these matters? In fact, such blockages should be prevented at the starting point by intervention in such cases as are evident and prevented. In this sense, the solution now in law is more appropriate than the one proposed by colleagues with amendments. In fact, none of these will, in my opinion, make it possible - because there are still some other games that should be solved elsewhere - to actually make a decision in the Constitutional Court or in the National Assembly. It's better to keep things out there so they don't happen. Unfortunately, in some municipalities, mayors or municipal councils also allow such things - not to carry out their civic duties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u310	Thank you, Mr. Stebeth. The Secretary of State, Mr Rokavec, made a statement.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u311	Thank you for your word. I think there is a need for some clarification on these two amendments, which the government is obviously opposed to. First time. See, the Constitutional Court has clearly written down two very important facts in its statement of its decision to repeal Article 90b in 2003. Firstly, "the provisions of the existing 90.b Article are inconclusive, unclear, the control and enforcement procedure is not precisely provided for, nor is adequate legal protection provided." I believe that the amendments to the law make these provisions clear, for the municipal council and for the mayor. I must correct Mrs Orzmovo so much that the second indent, which speaks of the discharge of the mayor, is no longer relevant because, after a thorough debate on the parental committee, we have found that it is also unclear that it could cause more confusion and also be the subject of a so-called contested decision. In addition, the Constitutional Court stated that the measure of discharge of the municipal council or discharge of the mayor could only be used as a last resort by the legislator when the functioning of local self-government was in fact impossible. And now, of course, this procedure, which has been discussed several times today. The National Assembly is calling an election. The government, which would have resolved the municipal council or the mayor and then referred to a constitutional or administrative court, would have passed through that body. In the proposal, we had an intermediate phase, namely that the government proposes discharge and proposes to the Constitutional Court the discharge of the municipal council or the mayor. In the interim phase, however, the opinion of the National Assembly. However, the legislative and legal service, both governments and then after consultation in the National Assembly, was clearly found to be a more appropriate procedure for the Government's proposal to the National Assembly, and then, of course, a solution to the provision of legal protection in the Constitutional Court. And now, of course, the proposals that are in the amendment. Proposals by the amendments of the Social Democrats to complement those criteria that allow the mayor to be dissolved. See, "does not carry out its own, by law-ordered tasks, for which the sole proponent by law is the sole proponent and thus causes the municipal council to be unable to perform its tasks under its jurisdiction." A very vague provision is to give a concrete example: the Public Finance Act states that the mayor must submit a proposal for a municipal budget within 30 days of the submission of the state budget for the following year. Look, in any such specific case, of course, if such a dictatorship were in force, someone might have raised an interest in the need to start a procedure for the discharge of the mayor, because he did not propose a budget in 30 days. What has been said today is that the mayors do not carry out their tasks, because they are clearly solely the proponents themselves. At the moment I do not see the case, I have not been informed of the case that one of the Slovenian mayors would not have proposed a budget for each year but is - held that not within the legal time limit, but see, Mrs. Pečanova [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u312	The ad from the bench.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u313	It is true that it is not proposed within 30 days of the submission of the state budget. However, this cannot be such a reason for the mayor's discharge procedure, as elected by the electorate, the electorate and the electorate, in the individual municipality. We must also look here and respect the principle of the independence and independence of local self-government and set here those criteria that actually prevent the functioning of the functioning of local self-government. If the mayor proposes a draft municipal budget within 60 days of the submission of the state budget, the functioning of local self-government will not therefore be prevented, but it is true that he is in a legal offence. This is a legal offence for me, but not such a global violation of a law that would enable the functioning of local self-government. And there are still objective reasons why a proposal could not be tabled within 30 days, and this is also a question which is not further resolved and so on. You know what? I recall the Constitutional Court's decision, which clearly states that the criteria must be clear and clear; then again, the story can be repeated that someone will complain to the Constitutional Court about the uncertainty of these provisions and we will again be a state without this instrument. Logically, we expect that, of course, the government will never have to use this instrument, it would be better if it never did. However, it is necessary that, of course, it is written so clearly that it will stand, it will also undergo a constitutional assessment and we will be able to use it, and at this point we have no mechanisms.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u314	Thank you, Mr. Rockhead. Anyone else want to discuss the amendments to Article 29? Mr. Mikolitch, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u315	Thank you very much. In the New Slovenia Group, we will not support the proposed amendment because we believe that the discharge of the mayor and the municipal council should be decided by the national assembly or by the government. With regard to such a long debate now on this or some sanctions, if the mayor does not submit a budget to the municipal council in due time, we must be completely honest. You know, if this is written explicitly, but a certain sanction follows, because it's not a problem to submit the budget or put it into the procedure of the municipal council, we're just going to put it in. But the question is whether it will fit or if the congregation council is satisfied. That's what we need to know. It is not a problem to draw up a budget quickly, but to send it into consideration. That's what I'm saying from this point of view, if you're legally bound from the back, which means you're also going to answer legally, you're going to do it in the line of least resistance. That is how I do not see great problems here, and I fully agree again with the State Secretary's explanation that, in fact, there have obviously been some major problems so far, and I am sure that it will not be in the future either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u316	Thank you, Mr. Mikolitch. Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u317	There's only one sentence I'd like to add to that. In contrast to the Secretary, I know the municipality, where they were budgetless and operating for three years, and here in this National Assembly, I have informed former Minister Bohinc of this and asked him what he would do, and he said, I have no legal mechanism to act. This is the Municipality of Podohik. If they now have a budget, I don't know, but there was a lot of despair and everyone was talking, we don't have a legal option to act. So the government has taken this matter seriously, and last but not least, it is high time that this is settled in this law. And I also believe that this mechanism, because it is written down, will not have to be used, because all the mayors will know that if the budget is not submitted, that if the budget is not actually adopted, then the law will allow such a measure and such a measure to follow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u318	Thank you, Mr. Sok. This concludes the debate on Article 29 and brings us to the debate on Article 34 and the amendment submitted by the Group of Members of the LDS. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. In accordance with the timing of the meeting, amendments will be decided today in the framework of the half-hour vote after the end of agenda 14 or no later than 21:00. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 13. PERIOD OF THE DAY - TO CONDUCT THE PROPOSAL OF A LEGISLATION ON AMENDMENTS AND SUPPORTS OF THE GREECE LAW. The proposal for a law was submitted by the RS Government for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to a representative of the government, Dr Magdalena Sverc, State Secretary at the Ministry of Education and Sport. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u319	Thank you so much for your words, Mr. Chairman, and welcome everyone in! This is about aligning the law on kindergartens with the law on offences and supplementing the ZOFI. For the first time, the offence law on fines for offences and determining the control of the criminal authority and, in the second case, on the grounds that we abolish school administrations. It is a matter for private kindergartens to continue to determine whether or not kindergartens meet the conditions and funding requirements. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u320	Thank you, Dr. Smuggling. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport as a parent working body. The Chairman of the Committee is not here at the moment. This is why the views of the groups are presented. Mrs Marjetka Uhan has the floor to present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u321	Hello again! At the hearing, we have a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on kindergartens, where we want to harmonise this law with the provisions of the law on offences and with the law on amendments and additions to the law on the organisation and financing of education and education adopted at the previous meeting and by which we abolished the school administrations. The first law harmonises the law on fines for offences and provides for a supervisory criminal authority to implement this law. More effective monitoring of the implementation of the provisions of the kindergarten law will be possible. The School Inspector will be given the opportunity to act effectively against irregularities. However, by harmonising the law on the organisation and financing of education and education, the proposed amendments clearly define the competences of the Ministry responsible for pre-school education in determining the conditions for financing private kindergartens from the budget on the local community. We support the proposed amendments, which are in line with the legislative and legal service and with the opinion of the Association of Directors and Directors of kindergartens of Slovenia. The proposed amendments to the law have no new financial implications for the state or the budget of local communities. In Novi Slovenija we support the proposal for a law on changes and additions to the law on kindergartens.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u322	Thank you, Mrs. Uhanov. Mr Michael Prevc will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u323	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr President, respectable colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian People's Party, too, we will support the bill through a reduced procedure, especially because it is actually a minor change. It is well known that this alignment means that it is to comply with the law on offences by which monetary penalties, as we know, have been replaced by fines and the actual competence of the decision-making bodies has changed. These proposed amendments will allow, as we have already heard, more effective control over the implementation of the provisions of the kindergarten law and of the education inspector, as a criminal authority, of course, and the possibility of effective action. It's like the second time. The recently adopted amendment to the Law on the Organisation and Financing of Education Education is designed to determine the fulfilment of the conditions for financing private kindergartens from the budgets of local communities clearly lays down the competence of the Ministry responsible for pre-school education. As has already been said, we will support these changes in the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u324	Thank you, Mr. Prevec. Ms Barbara Žgajner Tavš will present the position of the Slovenian National Party Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u325	Thank you so much for saying that. Today's paper on kindergartens, a novel or amendment of a law that actually has only three substantive articles. Allow me, dear colleagues and colleagues, to stop at the beginning of the word "only." During today’s session, I have heard that well - meaning counsel or recommendation that the word or its meaning should be taken seriously. As I said, I believe it's well intentioned. The Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia commented on only three articles in the law, namely three substantive articles. Comments, of course, in the direction that the solutions in the novel do not comply with the roofing rules. Although the draft law was in line with the opinions or comments of the legislative and legal service, it unfortunately casts doubt on the professionality of the minister's actions if the three articles were not actually able to comply with the other legislation. Therefore, the amended draft law on kindergartens is not entirely disputed in the opinion of the Slovenian National Party. Article 1 is disputed, leaving or allowing different interpretations in the background. Today, we have actually heard empty promises of intentional decentralisation several times in the course of today's session. The Government, by a new Article 1, clearly introduces centralisation, at least in the opinion of the Slovenian National Party. After the law on education and education, there is now also the area of kindergartens, that is, preschool education. I will first touch on the school administrations that should have been established on the new school year, but the new government, with amendments to the law adopted last month, has actually abolished them before they were actually established. First of all, this objective does not follow the coalition commitments, as I have already said about the decentralisation of the country, even through the dispersion of state authorities, which were promises. On the other hand, according to the Slovenian National Party, this is a questionable intervention in a very sensitive area. With recent moves, the government is, in fact, pointing to its intention to support in a quiet and, of course, gradually the whole system of public education and education. From the point of view of control, as I have already stated in such a sensitive area or system, it is logical, of course, that it is more necessary to have scissors and linen in the hands of the Minister. Furthermore, the applicant’s explanation that the new added paragraph to the existing Article 34 of the Law is due to the transfer of the powers of school administrations to the Ministry, in fact, according to the Slovenian National Party, does not have a reasonable basis. Because, in fact, the school administrations have not yet come to life, and so far, someone has had that authority. Who? The municipalities. The government is calling for consistency. We fear that this consistency will go in the direction of appointment of directors; it does not have all the professional opinions, just in view of political compatibility with power. However, Minister Beast will undoubtedly have a consistent or more consistent education system with this kind of conduct. What we miss in the Slovenian National Party in this law is state aid, I will say, in terms of financing and therefore more equivalent development of preschool education in the whole of Slovenia. Even in those congregations that are less developed. In the end, I will ask a question to the representative or State Secretary of the Ministry of Education, who is ultimately also responsible for the area of preschool education, regarding the short duration of the initial presentation of the force. Since the amendment in Article 1 refers to the activity of private kindergartens, whose financier is a local community, it is also obliged to provide public funds for private kindergartens, I ask: How do local communities view the government proposal? In terms of consistency or whatever. Is this proposal really in line with local communities? Of course, the decision of the Slovenian National Party depends on the answer I hope to receive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u326	Thank you, Mrs. Zginer Tavsh. Mr. Mag. Vasja Klavora will present the position of the Democratic Party of Retired Persons.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u327	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In our parliamentary group, we will support the proposal for a law because, as the text shows, it is a minor amendment, which is necessary to harmonise the existing law with the law on offences that introduced fines instead of offences. There have also been difficulties in implementing the existing law in implementing Article 34 of the Law on Kindergartens, which regulates jurisdiction. We therefore agree with the proposed supplement, which clearly sets out the competence of the Ministry responsible for preschool education to determine whether the conditions for financing private kindergartens from the budgets of local communities are met. Otherwise, he had a proposed proposal for a law of minor professional error or inadequacy, which was also pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. Since the Committee of the National Council for Culture, Education and Sport has taken them into account with its amendments, we believe that the amended proposal of the law is appropriate and, as I mentioned at the outset, we will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u328	Thank you, Mr. Clavori. Mr Branko Marinič will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u329	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Nice greetings to colleagues and colleagues and representatives of the government. The Slovenian Democratic Party will support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on kindergartens. The representative of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia said in an additional explanation of the articles that the proposed law meant harmonisation. Firstly, the law on offences by which fines have been reimbursed and the actual competence of the decision-making authorities has changed. The proposed amendments will allow for more effective control over the implementation of the provisions of the Education Act and the Education Inspector, as a criminal authority, of the possibility of effective action. Secondly, the recently adopted amendment to the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education by clearly defining the competence of the Ministry responsible for pre-school education to determine the fulfilment of the conditions for the financing of private kindergartens in the budget of local communities. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will vote in favour of amendments to the kindergarten law.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u330	Thank you, Mr. Marinic, and also Master Majd Potrate. Here you go. Speak on behalf of the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u331	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary of State. The proposed law, which we are considering following a reduced procedure, which covers only three articles, could also be left out of the opinion of the Social Democrats' Group of Members of Parliament, but there are at least two reasons to draw attention to the already established practice when it comes to the consideration of the law in the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport. In the previous meeting of the National Assembly, I pointed out that the indications in the Committee's report on the draft law do not support the magnetogram. It's a similar matter this time. Although the Rules of Procedure of Article 3 133 refer to the report of the working body, there is nothing to be said about the technique of summarizing the treatment. It is therefore necessary to resort to the general rules for the summary of the text spoken. If the report states, "The proposaler's representative has said in a supplementary explanation" and so on, we rightly expect that the said speech does not contain elements which the literal speech did not contain. But let me illustrate on page 8 of the rapporteur’s 50th issue, July 2, 2005, below. We read in the magnetogram: "Well-welcome, distinguished president, with respect to attendance, it is a matter of aligning the law with the law on offences and aligning the law on kindergartens with the law of ZOFI, in accordance with the fact that we have abolished school administrations and the powers they would have in the case of school administrations are necessary to transfer to the Ministry of Education. In fact, it is a matter of coordination and complementarity in accordance with the Act on Offences and the Law of the ZOFI, which abolishes school administrations. Thank you." It's in a magnetogram. Only three lines are covered by this text in the report of the working body. Everything else is added from the bill. It is simply that it is not possible to believe the report of the working body because it mentions something that has not been spoken on the working body. And once again, I am protesting this way of summarizing the events on the committee. The second point concerns the quality of the proposal. The three articles contain. For two of them, the legislative and legal service had comments and also a representative of the kindergarten community. The whole thing could end at this point, because they would say, because it's just a matter of coordination. But the Social Democrats and the other, the biggest opposition party in the previous session, at which we discussed changes to the law on the organisation and financing of education and education, expressed disagreement with the abolition of school administrations that did not even come to life. So we were overheard. There was no question about it either. What is particularly concerned about this type of work is that the Ministry of Education and Sport, at the same time, predicts changes in the sub-laws that bring root interventions into the field of child protection, which predict lower standards and consequently lower the quality of child protection. These are not things that the Social Democrats would leave carefree and would easily raise their hands for the changes that have been made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u332	Thank you, Mrs. Patrati. We are done with the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles. That is why I am concluding the debate and thus the second reading of the proposal for a law. We will vote on the law in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 14th item of the agenda, or no later than 21:00. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 14. Agenda item - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Tax on Transportation of Insurance Transactions. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. Allow me first to give the floor to the representative of the government, Mr Bogomir Špiletic, to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance. Here you go, Mr. Spiletitch.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u333	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Following the entry into force of the Act on the taxation of insurance transactions, new substantive legislation on insurance was introduced in Slovenia, amended legislation on tax procedure and amended legislation on offences. All these rules also affect the implementation of the Act on the Transport of Insurance Businesses and some of the inconsistencies between the rules are causing in the practice of confusion which we are assessing that they need to be rectified. The proposed amendment does not affect the fundamental principles already established by the basic law on taxation from the transport of insurance transactions, but, in particular, the proposed amendments to the law seek to eliminate the confusion and inconsistencies mentioned above. The proposed law will have no financial implications for the budget and not any other consequences. We therefore propose that the National Assembly should support the law in the updated text, as prepared by the Home Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u334	Thank you, Mr. Spiletich. I ask the chairman of the Committee, Mr Bojan Starman, to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u335	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Your Honor! At its 23rd meeting, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on Finance and Monetary Policy considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Act on the Transport of Insurance Transactions, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration and acceptance, proposing that the law submitted be examined and adopted in a simplified manner. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service as additional material of the Slovenian Insurance Association’s comments and the opinion of the Committee of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia on the economy, whose representatives also participated in the meeting of the Committee. As has already been said, this amendment aligns the law adopted in 1999 with subsequent amendments to the substantive legislation in the field of insurance and the amendment of legislation in the tax field and in the field of offences. The discussion focused on the amendment proposal of the Association of Slovenian Insurance Companies to amend the new second paragraph of Article 3 of the proposed law relating to cases of an emergency termination of the insurance contract in which the tax on insurance transactions is not charged and paid; this is not done only in the event of death. A longer discussion was held in which most members agreed that it would be wise to prepare a different, clearer and more defined amendment to this Article. Unfortunately, however, this amendment was not later adopted because the Insurance Association failed to draw up such a proposal, which would also be in line with the financial opinion. In any case, there has been an extension of possible relief, which could also be used. The Committee then adopted two amendments to Articles 2 and 3 and all the articles of the law proposed to the National Assembly for adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u336	Thank you, Mr. Starman. I give the floor to the representative of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Janc, to present the position of the Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u337	Thank you, Mr. President. A respected secretary with a co-worker, colleagues and colleagues! On 23 June, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy considered this proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the transport of insurance as a parent body submitted to the procedure by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for adoption following a reduced procedure. In the course of this debate, quite a number of debates were held by members of the Committees in relation to the position of the amendment proposed by the Slovenian Insurance Association to amend the amendment of the second paragraph of Article 3 of the proposed law relating to cases of an emergency termination of the contract, whereby the tax on insurance companies is not charged and paid. The government disagreed with that. The overall conclusion was that it was necessary to supplement the tax ruling on cases of an emergency termination of the insurance contract accordingly. The Committee adopted amendments to Article 2 and Article 3 of the bill. The amendments also take into account the proposal of the Association of Insurance Companies of Slovenia, and we find that these conditions are also met. The Slovenian People's Party supports these amendments to the law following a reduced procedure proposed by the Government and will also adopt it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u338	Thank you, Mr. Janz. Mag. Vasja Klavora will present the position of the DeSUS Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u339	Mr. President. Respectable. In the DeSUS Group of Members, we agree with the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to amend and supplement the Act on the Transport of Insurance Business Tax and we will support it. The area of taxation of secured insurance transactions in each EU Member State is not subject to a single European regulation. So far, material insurance legislation, the 1999 law, the tax procedure and the infringements have changed. In practice, there have been various inconsistencies between these three areas. Therefore, the purpose of the amendment to this non-compliance law is to remedy the relevant corrections to the present law and to enable the proper implementation of the law. In doing so, the definitions of the proposed amendment should follow the definitions of insurance rules. The amended proposal contains: a change from personal to life and property, an exceptional termination of the insurance contract before the end of the 10 years, and procedural matters which will allow for better systemic functioning. We point to the very precise definition or definition of those insurance transactions that are taxed or exempt from tax. This would highlight the opinion of the Slovenian Insurance Association that certain cases of insurance contracts such as critical diseases such as cancer, disability are excluded from the tax base. It seems important to us that the amended proposal is without prejudice to the basic principles of the law, namely, the basic principle of the law is not to pay taxes if the insurance is concluded for more than 10 years. It will be necessary to supplement the provisions on after-tax liability for transactions which cease before the end of the 10 years, if the insurance is subsequently broken down or if the insurance is immediately terminated before that period, the tax shall be subsequently charged, but not from the premiums paid, but from the amount which, in view of the moment of termination of the insurance, belongs to the insurer or the insurer. At the same time, the obligation to pay the tax on all forms of business termination is generalised or extended and it is also determined when, where justified cases do not have to be paid - the death of the insured person, the new proposal, the emergence of critical diseases during the duration of the insurance contract, disability or would be excluded from the tax base because the contract has been concluded for more than 10 years, no tax has been paid, but since this case occurs ten years ago, it is necessary for all those premiums that have already been paid, to charge the tax and to pay the tax that is passed on to the insured person. In our DeSUS Group, we agree with the above-mentioned conclusions that the proposal covers the terminology of certain insurance transactions and the regulation of legal proceedings of the insurance system. We believe that the proposal should not allow excessive interference in spreading exceptions, as this would lead to tax avoidance. However, marriage would lose its meaning if we left such a text because it would allow for different interpretations. In this context, we believe that the proposal creates a vague legal situation, both for insurance companies, insurers and competent institutions. We agree that matters in the law are clarified in all competent authorities. We note, however, that the cases mentioned in the insurance contract relate exclusively to certain exceptional cases, as I have already mentioned, disability, critical diseases such as cancer, and so on, and the desire to break insurance must not be taken into account. Payments due to various accidents or injuries shall mean regular payments made in the form of accident insurance and insurance shall continue. But it's not about terminating the contract. We would point out the possibility of speculation that may occur when determining payment or default. The drafter of the law should take into account the opinions of the professional competent services, the legislative and legal service of the National Assembly, the Slovenian Insurance Association, the Committee of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia for the Economy and the Committee of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia for Finance and Monetary Policy, which prescribe a broader list of exceptions and not just a case of death, so that the solutions do not constitute a discriminatory assessment. Therefore, in our Group of Members, it seems important that the appropriate and precise supplements are put in place as soon as possible and represent a transparent working system. We support the law with the proposed amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u340	Thank you, Mr. Clavori. Mr Bojan Starman will speak on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u341	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Slovenian Democratic Party will support this amendment of the law because it follows the Government's proposal and because we believe that it is essential to bring the law of 1999 into line with the changes to the substantive legislation in the field of insurance and to amend the legislation in the tax field and in the field of offences, because it is only in this way that it is possible to properly implement the law for the purpose it is intended to achieve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u342	Thank you, Mr. Starman. Mr Cyril Testen will speak on behalf of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u343	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Ambassadors and Members of the Government! New Slovenia's Parliamentary Group - The Christian People's Party fully agrees with the proposed amendments, which are of a co-ordination nature and have been presented and reasoned on the Finance Committee 23.6.2005. The proposed legal solutions aim to eliminate the non-compliances that occur in practice resulting from non-compliance with amended material insurance legislation. The law was adopted in 1999, and changes or harmonisations were therefore necessary. In Novi Slovenije, as on the Committee on Finance, a number of substantive comments were made to the amendment to the Association of Insurance Companies of Slovenia, which concerns exceptional cases of termination of the insurance contract. It is not acceptable for our Group of Members that, in cases of early termination of the contract, the non-taxable insurance would be defined only in each individual contract. The opinion of our parliamentary group is that the law must be precise, in which cases, in addition to death, early reckoning and paid insurance is not taxed. We also agree with the opinion of the Association of Insurance Companies of Slovenia that some of the cases of severe diseases and severe disability must be exported. We also agree with the Finance Committee that a concrete proposal should be drawn up by an insurance association and put into action in accordance with the prescribed procedure. The amendment, unfortunately, was not put into business. The list of proposed exemptions made by the insurance association is, in our view, very extensive and the question is whether it is acceptable because it would largely destroy the meaning of at least 10 years of untaxed insurance. In our Group of Members, we believe that the sense of such a large number of exceptions should be reconsidered and decided to make the most necessary corrections indeed. In the New Slovenia Group, we will support the amendment proposal and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u344	Thank you, Mr. Testen. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles, so I conclude the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. The vote on the law will take place today in the framework of the vote at 8:30 p.m. in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. I am also adjourning the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 8:30 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u345	Dear Members and honourable Members! We are moving to a vote on proposals for decisions. We continue with the end of the 16th item of the agenda - the first reading of the proposal for a law on the incompatibilities of performing a public function with a gainful activity. Before we go to the vote, I ask Members and Members to check the functioning of the voting apparatus. On the right hand side of the card lodged, the orange light shall be lit, in which case the vote may be carried out. Anybody got a problem with the voting device? [[Nobody.]] We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "The proposal of the Act on the Incompatibilities of the performance of a public function with a gainful activity, the first consideration, is suitable for further consideration." We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 44 votes against 23. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] Mrs Shirca, I do not call for explanations of vote as agreed. I waited and looked all over, and I looked at you, and you didn't raise your hand. Please raise your hand when it is time to do so and wait for you to sign up for explanations of vote. I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the law will therefore be allocated to the home working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 8th item of the agenda - the consideration of the proposed law on amendments and additions to the law on local self-government. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled. We will first vote on the amendment of the Italian and Hungarian national groups to Article 2. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 44. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to a vote on the amendment to Article 5. You have just received an additional opinion from the legislative and legal service, which was required in the debate. Do you need time to think before the vote, Mrs. Zalokarev? [[Yeah.]] Then I interrupt for three minutes and please stay in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u346	You had enough time to read it. Mrs. Zalokareva, are you applying for an explanation of vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? Here you are, on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u347	I explain this additional opinion, which we have requested with regard to Article 5 and the amendment that we have tabled. The fact is that, to the extent that there is very little here, I am not a lawyer myself, as far as I can understand, the opinion of the legislative and legal service expresses scepticism and expresses a dilemma with regard to the regulation of the question of equivalence or regulation on the one hand of the continuous establishment of new municipalities, which will in fact be possible at any time, and on the other hand the elections and the call for elections that are taking place. In this context, they repeat their dilemma that they have already pointed out this at the meeting of the parent committee, as I have mentioned in the debate myself, and it seems to me, of course, that in this sense it is necessary to support the amendment to Article 5 which we have tabled and which sets such a deadline. However, if this is not the case, of course, I expect the applicant to follow this opinion and nevertheless also take into account the warnings that are here, not least the Constitutional Court ruling, which was pointed out several times by colleague Peca, who expressly points out the importance of deadlines. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u348	Please, only Mrs. Zalokarova has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u349	I propose that, in this regard, a representative of the government be made and, irrespective of the opinion we have in the legislative and legal services, nothing will happen, and he will also take our responsibility, as he has warned us and also the legislative and legal services that have been given. I hope that the matter will be most elegantly resolved by adopting and supporting the amendment to Article 5. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u350	Thank you, Mrs. Zalokarev. Mr. Pece, please. On behalf of the delegation?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u351	On behalf of the Group of Members. Thank you for your word. Within the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, we are somewhat surprised by the previous reply from the minister, who denied the existence of deadlines in connection [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u352	I'm asking for peace. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u353	by law [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u354	Excuse me, Mr. Pache. Hold on a second so the speaker can speak.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u355	We are a little surprised by the response of the competent minister, who denied the deadlines in connection with electoral legislation and who denied the necessary deadlines in connection with the legislation concerning the matter of local self-government. I believe that it was very responsible of this National Assembly, if for the first time it respected the two decisions of the Constitutional Court. The first decision of the Constitutional Court refers to the election year in the context of the conduct of local elections, as well as the election to the National Assembly. On the other hand, the Legal and Legislative Service also informs us of a timetable related to the establishment of municipalities or their designated units. Therefore, within the framework of the Slovenian National Party, we call for the adoption of an amendment which provides for at least a six-month period, in the interest of citizens and citizens, or of citizens and citizens, depending on the position or size of the local community, which we are looking at, and at least to ensure that they are allowed to know before the elections, within which the local communities are elected and on which system they are based. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u356	Thank you. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u357	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In view of this additional opinion, as far as we have been able to read it in these few minutes, we will support this amendment and, of course, we will open up the possibility of correcting anything even in the third reading. However, this amendment in this law must also remain in this form. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u358	Thank you. Mr. Znidarsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u359	Thank you very much. Our group also thinks it is right that there has been a proposal to consult the legislative and legal services once again. Now we see that this has been good, and I think it is right to support the amendment and possibly complete it in the third reading, if necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u360	Since there are no more applications for explanations of vote, we are moving to a vote. We vote on the amendment to Article 5. There are 78 Members and Members present, 78 votes against none. [[The vote was 78.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're moving on to Article 15. First of all, we will vote on the amendment of Article 15 of the Social Democrats' Parliamentary Group, under number 1. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present. 30 votes against 47. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We move to a vote on the amendment of the LDS Club to Article 15 under Article 2. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 47. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're moving on to Article 29. We shall first vote on the first amendment of the Social Democrats' Group to Article 29 under Article 1. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 47. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We turn to the vote on the amendment of the Group of Members of the LDS to Article 29 under Article 2. If the amendment is adopted, the amendment under point 3 becomes irrelevant. We're voting. There are 80 Members present and 39 votes against 47. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving to the 2nd Amendment of the Social Democrats Group to Article 29, which is under Article 3. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 47. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving on to Article 34 – we are voting on the amendment of the Group of Members of the LDS to this Article. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 47. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted one amendment to Article 5 of the amended bill. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table an amendment to this article? Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u361	Thank you for your word. I am pleased to inform you that the coalition will table an amendment to this article. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u362	Thank you. The third hearing will continue on Friday after the last item of the agenda. Mr. Skull, do you have a procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u363	Yeah. The coalition is not an authorised proposer and we can proceed with the decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u364	I think that the coalition contains several parliamentary groups and is sufficient for one parliamentary group. Mr. Tanko, will you rephrase your proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u365	Thank you very much. Mr. School likes to have a little fun sometimes, but we'll be done with that. I am pleased to inform you that the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS groups will table an amendment to this adopted amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u366	This concludes this item of the agenda and brings us to the end of the 13th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the kindergarten law. I used to say by mistake that we were breaking up the previous point, we didn't break it, or we didn't finish it, but we broke it. So much so that it will be properly recorded in the magnetogram. So we have broken off the previous point and will continue on Friday, according to the last item of the agenda. We are now moving on to the third reading of the bill in the context of a reduced procedure. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to table amendments in the third reading, so we are moving on to a decision on the law. In doing so, I inform you that the Government or the Legal and Legislative Service has not informed me that the law would be inconsistent. Mrs. Žgeiner Tavš, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u367	Thank you so much for saying that. I will give an explanation to the vote on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. In the introductory explanation, I have already said what is actually at issue in the opinion of the Slovenian National Party and also announced that if I receive an answer from the secretary who was present at the meeting when the bill was being considered, we will also draw up a position. Although I didn't get a public answer, I got the answer in the bench, but I have to admit that the answer wasn't really what I set out. The dilemma remains that the law expressly states, and I will read the first article of the law: "The Ministry responsible for preschool education shall decide on the fulfilment of the conditions set out in paragraph 1 of this Article."
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u368	I ask all Members and Members to allow Mrs. Žgajnar Tavš to speak
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u369	Thank you very much. I hope that you will let me finish my thought and, of course, also tell me how we will vote in the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. What I have read, what is new in this novel law actually says is that the ministry will centralise the area of education, not just education or education by abolishing school administrations. The financier will therefore continue to remain a local community or local community, out of the decision-making system, apparently following a new proposal, a government proposal, fall. Although I was assured by the secretary that the government is also adopting regulations in agreement with local communities, but what rules are there to talk about, I did not actually get an explanation. We will therefore be sustainable in this vote in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-13-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u370	Thank you, Mrs. Zginer Tavsh. We're moving to the vote. We're voting on the law. The vote is under way. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 19. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 19.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 14th item of the agenda - this is the consideration of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the transport of insurance. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill in the context of a reduced procedure. Since no amendments have been tabled to supplement the proposal, it is not possible to table amendments in the third reading of amendments, so we are moving on to a decision on the law. In doing so, I inform you that the Government or the Legal and Legislative Service has not informed me that the law would be inconsistent. We're moving to a vote on the law. We're voting. The vote is under way. 79 Members and Members present, 69 votes against 1. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. And I am adjourning the 8th session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. Good evening!
