ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-13-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We begin the 7th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, convened pursuant to Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that they are detained and that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Roberto Battelli, Dr Slavko Gaber, Victory Jelinčič Trimeniti, Franc Kangler, mag. Janez Kramberger, Aloise Posedel and Mrs Majda Shirca. I invited the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Janez Janša, to the 1st item of the agenda, the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to all items of the agenda, the representative of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia to the 8th item and the representative of the Office of the President of the Republic of Slovenia and the representative of the Council to the 25th item of the agenda. We are moving on to the agenda of the 7th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The draft agenda is drawn up in accordance with Rule 59 of the Rules of Procedure and has been received by reference to the meeting on 3 June 2005. The draft agenda will be decided in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I have not received any proposals to withdraw the item from the agenda or to extend the agenda. I therefore propose to the assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda, as you have received by reference. Mr. Sok, you want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-13-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u2	Mr President, fellow Members and Members of Parliament! Now I don't know if I got it right. In college, we agreed to change the order of the points. I don't know whether we have to deal with this or whether we have to vote on this later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-13-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u3	We now decide on the agenda. The timetable or shifting of a point shall be voted on by proposals to be held during the debate. However, I must say that we have spoken with both ministers, both Mr Petnik and Simoniti, and there is no replacement. At least Minister Drobnič will be present at the opening and closing remarks on Friday. So the proposal that was made at the college is irrelevant. Mrs. Zalokar, would you like to make a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-13-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u4	Actually, I have a procedural question, and I'm interested in the following. Physical accounts in Parliament are relatively common, as this is a place where real interests are concerned for power, power and money.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-13-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u5	Mrs. Zalokar, this is not a matter of agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-13-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u6	I will ask you a procedural question regarding the safety of Members and Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-13-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u7	We are now voting on the agenda and please explain your vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-13-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u8	We are voting on the agenda and please [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-13-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u9	A Procedural Question Possible [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-13-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u10	Explanation [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-13-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u11	Anytime. [[...]] It's not? I'm asking you about this because now it's the beginning of the session. I wonder if I can feel safe enough in Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-13-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u12	That's not an explanation for the voice. Thank you very much. Anybody want to explain their voice? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 67 Members and Members present, 63 votes against none. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda for the 7th meeting of the Assembly is set. I hereby adjourn the meeting of the National Assembly. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go. Procedural proposal or question. Here you go, Mrs. Zalokareva.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-13-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u13	I'm sorry, but I think I have a right now that you've finished the point, if there was an explanation for the vote before. In fact, I wonder, days ago, we could see in one of the tabloid newspapers that a photograph was taken in the National Assembly, in which our fellow Members were photographed, each with his own gun, that is, with a gun. He says without bullets and, of course, his colleagues are such that I am sure they are peaceful, but it is obvious that there is a gun in Parliament and that it is possible to bring it here. That is why I ask you, Mr President, and I ask: Is there adequate security in Parliament? I would like to know how this weapon was brought to Parliament, since the House Order explicitly says that there should be no firearms in Parliament. So I would like to ask: Will you take any action on this incident, and in what way? I think it would be very unusual if, for example, we put ourselves in a position to see a picture of Members in the German Parliament, in the Bundestag [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-13-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u14	Mrs Zalokareva, this is a pure abuse of the rules of procedure, this is no procedural proposal. Are you suggesting that we stop the meeting and continue it in three days, or something like that? This is not a procedural proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-13-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u15	My question is: Can you, Mr President, assure me that I am safe in this House? Since I saw a photograph taken seven days ago in this National Assembly [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-13-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u16	Mrs. Zalokareva, please finish. I took your word for it because it's a pure abuse of the rules of procedure. Mr. Squeakle, you wanted a procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-13-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u17	Mr President, I think that you are either the custodian of this national assembly or the first of the same responsible for responding to the Members. I think it's good to make sure. I think the Member has pointed out the fundamental rights that Members and Members have.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-13-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u18	Mr. Squeakle, do you know what the Institute of Procedural Proposal is?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-13-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u19	My procedural proposal, however, is a procedural proposal for the postponement of the agenda item, now that we have confirmed the agenda, I propose that, on the basis of Article 65, paragraph 1, we postpone the consideration of the 11th item of the agenda, the debate on the reply of the Minister of Finance, Dr Andrej Bajuk, to the question of my littleness on the next financial perspective of the European Union. I propose that the National Assembly hold this debate before 16 June. The reasons for this are as follows. It is known that the Prime Minister visited the President of the European Union last week. It is known that during the last week at an extraordinary meeting on Saturday in emergency situations - because it is known that the national assembly meets outside the working days only when something extraordinary - the European Union Affairs Committee has decided on the mandate of our negotiators. It is known that last night, in the absence of the Minister for Foreign Affairs and in the absence of the Minister of Finance, the Slovenian delegation negotiated the next financial perspective. And it is known that this will be decided from Thursday, June 16th, to, as predicted, Saturday, June 18th. Having a debate on the answer of the Minister of Finance to this same substantive question, after any possibility of Slovenia obtaining a good negotiating position with the support of the National Assembly is over, and then, finally, a good position on the next financial perspective, it is, to say the least, unacceptable of you as President. In this regard, we have already proposed procedurally to the College of the President of the National Assembly to hold a debate on this before Mr Janša's visit to Mr Juncker, and this has been rejected by the ruling coalition. However, everyone is aware that we are at a previous meeting - and you have also used this as a reason why there is no need to have a special session - have voted, even with the help of the Members of the ruling coalition, for which I thank you once again, the possibility of discussing the content of the next financial perspective. However, there is a meaningful debate on this, Mr President, only if it is held before 16 June. I therefore propose that we vote on this.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-13-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u20	I would point out that the views of the Republic of Slovenia have already been adopted and this debate, which you have announced and which is in the order of order, will not change these views. However, I would like to ask if you are proposing a change in the order of the individual points, to specify more precisely when this debate should begin or how the points should be replaced. Here you go, Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-13-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u21	Mr President, we propose very concretely, given that obviously there will not be enough time to conclude today's debate on the 2005 budget rebalancing on the working body because [[...]] [[background advertising]] We'll see, sir, come to the meeting! Since the President has decided that the debate will start five hours before the meeting and must be concluded today until midnight, and we are only at the second of the 70 amendments, he would suggest that the debate will be held tomorrow at 2 p.m., which is now reserved for the debate on the rebalancing of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. Then we'll see what happens to the committee today. We believe that this is also correct because we are likely to conclude the discussion on the balance very late or very early, and it would be unfair for the competent services to request that they then devote the rest of the night to writing the report. We therefore propose that point 11 should be scheduled for tomorrow at 2 p.m. The presence of the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance is announced. We believe that our negotiators have also succeeded in coming from Brussels. You will assess whether anything needs to be closed to the public. However, we believe that this would be minimally correct, that, as a national assembly, after we have voted once, the opposition and the coalition together before Mr Janša goes with Mr Rupl and I do not know who else to visit his EU-24 colleagues to hold this debate in the national assembly. That's why I suggest it's tomorrow at 2 p.m. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-13-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u22	Thank you very much. As we understand it, this debate is due to start tomorrow at 2 p.m. and for it the balance of the budget as it will take place. Okay? There is no vote or debate on the proposal, so we are voting on the proposal. There are 74 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 42. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 42.]] The proposal was not adopted. Mr. Friend, if you have a procedural proposal, yes, but there is no debate about weapons. Please choose a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-13-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u23	Dear President! I wanted to talk about the lies. Mrs. Flower Zalokar Orazem [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-13-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u24	This is not a procedural proposal, Mr. Friend.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-13-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u25	It shakes flowers, it shakes flowers. [[...]] We were covered.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-13-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u26	Good.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-13-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u27	Thank you for taking my word for it that way.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-13-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u28	Thank you very much. I'm canceling the session and we'll continue at 2 p.m. at 3 p.m., excuse me. Now you've got me all confused.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-13-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u29	We're moving on to one. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - QUESTIONS FROM THE MISSIONS AND THE CONCERNERS. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received 34 Members and Members in writing within the time limit. The order of business shall be laid down on the basis of an agreement with the Heads of the groups of Members in accordance with Article 244(2) and Article 245(2) and Article 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The first three questions raised by members of the opposition and the Member of the ruling coalition's question to the Member of Parliament will be answered by the Prime Minister. Then the Minister of Health will be mag. In accordance with Rule 247 of the Rules of Procedure, Andrej Bručan replied to the questions raised at the 6th meeting of the assembly, to which he did not respond. Members who have submitted two questions will ask the second question after all the Members who are registered ask one question. Members shall have three minutes to ask the question. The Prime Minister and the Minister will answer the question within a maximum of five minutes, as well as if the question has been raised by more ministers. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask an additional question. Members, I ask you to pay attention to this. The Member shall provide an explanation of the request to supplement the reply within two minutes. However, the reply may be completed for a maximum period of three minutes. With regard to the announcement of the questions sent, I would like to inform you that Member Geza Juban has withdrawn the oral question from the Government and will put it in writing and that Ambassador Maria Pozsonec and Member Aleš Gulič have amended or supplemented the questions announced in terms of clarity. Members Bogdan Barovic and Bojan Kontic also withdrew the questions announced. On this point, the following ministers apologized for today: Minister of Foreign Affairs Dr Dimitrij Rupel, Minister of Transport mag. Mr Janez Bozič, Minister for Defence, Mr Karl Erjavec and Minister for Environment and Space, Mr Janez Podobnik. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised today, the Prime Minister or the Minister must provide him with a written reply within 30 days, which will be published in the bulletin of the National Assembly. A Member who has asked a question which has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral answer. In this case, I will place the question at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. On the bench, you received a review of the questions sent and of the initiatives that have not yet been answered in the course of business. We are moving on to a presentation of the questions sent. As has already been said, the first four questions will be answered by Prime Minister Janez Janša. The first question will be raised by the representative of the Slovenian National Party, Mr Sašo Peče. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-13-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u30	Your Honors are here! My question is related to State control or administration of state property by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or the competent departments. The budget of the Republic of Slovenia and, finally, the proposed budget balance clearly indicate, in my opinion, the ineffective financial policy of our country, which is the continuation of the entire previous period, i.e. the periods of the rule of liberal democracy and the United Kingdom. When we look at the structure of budgetary revenue, we see that tax revenues still prevail heavily over 90% and that non-tax revenue, among which are the most interesting, showing the eligibility or quality of the government, in particular participation in profits and income from assets, taxes, fees and other four similar tax items, as well as capital revenues such as revenues from the sale of basic assets, land sales revenues, I stress from the sale of land and similar revenues. In this regard, as a Member of the National Assembly and a member of the Slovenian National Party, I am interested in governmental control over proposed or institutions which are in the majority or part of the own government of the Republic of Slovenia and in which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has the right to exercise a supervisory role within the supervisory committee, in accordance with the law on public funds, which states in Article 16 that "the Supervisory Board, as a form of supervisory institution, is concerned with ensuring functioning in the public interest" or, as the law on economic societies speaks, and is more of such legal basis. From this point of view, do the Government of the Republic of Slovenia work in coordination with the supervisors of our common assets? So does it require reports from them, i.e. from the Supervisory Board as a whole and from individual members of the Supervisory Board? Because the fact is, probably, we all know how the information flows from each supervisory committee later into the form of their report. So, they also vote by voting, which means that usually or in practice, with the exception of just once, it turns out that the reports that they are, show that our funds, agencies or any other institution are doing well, while the budget, as I pointed out or proved in the introduction, of course, defines this differently. Mr Janša, I would like to take your position: Does the Government, in a coordinated manner, take care of the work of individual members of the Supervisory Board and the Supervisory Committees in their entirety? I would therefore ask that you also support the Slovenian National Party's idea of requesting a one-year report from every member of the supervisory committee in any institution in our country to know how people manage state assets.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-13-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u31	Mr. Peche.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-13-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u32	Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-13-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u33	Mr. President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-13-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u34	Thank you for the question, honourable Member. I think it would be very difficult with one law to settle this issue. Although we could try, there is a significant difference, so far there are four laws, namely the Law on Economic Companies, the Law on Institutions, the Law on Economic Public Services and the Law on Public Funds. Every law speaks of something that differs from, say, companies. The government is involved in co-management through all these institutions, including through the company law, by not having any different status in those companies where it is a co-owner of state-owned shares, other entities and subject to the same rules and must behave equally. In this regard, let me add that only a few economic operators, where the government is a majority or absolute owner, where it is a part-owner, the government acts with its views when it accepts the basis for the assembly meeting. At that time, those attending the assemblies shall be very precisely defined as negotiating points or as a basis for deciding when voting at those assemblies. I come to see when it comes to public institutions or public economic services, even when it comes to public funds, the situation is slightly different, but it is not uniform. The government here mostly or virtually everywhere through the departmental ministries, it is said that every institution, every fund where the government exercises the function of management or co-management or establishment, falls within a certain area, into a specific ministry and that ministry in detail is, of course, over the legality of operations. It usually also proposes supervisors to the supervisory councils and, as far as I can tell, this is very large - this coordination is appropriate. I do not think that any strategically wrong decision has yet been made because government coordination would be lacking. So, the proposal to adopt one law to determine how to rule through supervisors appointed either in economic services, public economic services, institutions or funds, I think that by one law we would not have achieved anything but that what is already written in these four laws could still be translated into one basic law. When it comes to government participation in economic public services, this will be significantly less over time, so that there will probably be no major problems in this respect. There are also institutions of particular importance that are directly attached to individual ministries, such as trade reserves, where ministries directly exercise this supervisory function and in this regard, at least for the last time, I do not know where something strategically wrong would be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-13-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u35	Thank you, Mr. President. Would you like a refill? Here you go, Mr. Pache.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-13-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u36	Well, I think I was misinterpreted. I do not make a request for a new law, I propose to both the National Assembly and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and to the two institutions that have the right to propose supervisors in our country, that when they are appointed, a decision be taken, or their commitment, that each of them must report on their work in these institutions. So, not that we have strawed men, as has been very recent lately, who collect that meeting, but, above all, to present their views, because many times, and to me too, it has occurred to me that an overseer in a committee, a world where he performs his job, raises a particular matter, but is voted there, and when they give a joint position or report, there is no evidence of suspected irregularity. In view of the fact that in these cases, of course, both the Government, on the one hand, and the National Assembly, on the other hand, will respond to any alleged irregularity, especially if we look at the result of the operation of these agencies, funds, whatever, in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, where I believe the situation is catastrophic; that the state budget is filled exclusively with taxes and not from those addresses such as land sales and similar things. Mr Janša, I would also like to ask for your support for the proposal that we offer to the National Party for admission to the National Assembly, namely, the Supervisory Committees as a whole and the members of the Supervisory Committees, which, in accordance with the law and other legal acts, are confirmed, appointed or dissolved by the National Assembly, are obliged to report to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on the legality of work and financial transactions in enterprises, public institutions, other funds which are in the majority or partial ownership of the Republic of Slovenia. And it would make sense, in my opinion, that the same decision is taken by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia at the time of appointment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-13-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u37	Thank you, Mr. Pechet. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-13-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u38	Thank you, too, for this additional question or suggestion, but as far as I know, this obligation of supervisors already arises from existing legislation. Supervisors are obliged to report to those appointed to represent their interests in the supervisory boards of either companies or public institutions. I think that if it is not written directly, it would be possible for me to interpret that part of the legislation that speaks of the overseers appointed by the National Assembly, so that it should be understood in itself for the overseers who are called by this High Council. However, there has been a partial update of this legislation in recent years. Overseers are responsible for what they do, even property, but it is the responsibility of a good master who appoints overseers, of course, that he also requires them to do so. Otherwise, it can go its own way, and it goes on the sidelines. Now, as the government has already said, it is not an area that hangs in the air somewhere. There is a ministry everywhere, which is also concerned with the implementation of legislation, and which also ensures that there is no irregularity when it comes to the exercise of a supervisory function through appointed people.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-13-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u39	Thank you, Mr. President. The next question will be asked by the representative of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, Master Anton Rop. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-13-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u40	Dear Mr. Prime Minister! The latest data on economic growth in Slovenia are extremely worrying. Data show that economic growth fell by almost 40% at the beginning of this year, i.e. in the middle of this year - to 2.6%. It is even more worrying that at the same time investment activity is negative. So, after many years, we no longer have a positive growth in investment activity in Slovenia. Economic activity is also falling. Thus, negative growth is recorded in processing activities. Construction activity is also negative. At the same time, it is noted that the number of employees in the so-called state sector increased by 1.8% this year. So as we record negative economic trends, the number of employees in the country increases by 1.8%. This, of course, requires appropriate action by the Government, particularly if we make a comparison with economic growth and economic activity in the European Union. In recent years, we have usually recorded about once more faster economic growth in Slovenia than in the Member States of the European Union. And this year, for the first time in twelve years, we are recording a relative decline in economic growth in Slovenia compared to the European Union. Economic growth in Slovenia has never been so low in comparison with the European Union in these twelve years. Therefore, economic growth has not fallen in the European Union, investment activity has not fallen and Slovenia has every opportunity to apply in European markets. Of course, in this context, what measures will the government propose to promote economic activity? And: What does he intend to do about it?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-13-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u41	Thank you, Mr. Rope. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-13-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u42	Thank you, Member, for the question. The data you provide shall be valid for the first three months of this year, referred to as the first quarter. Even if all of this were to hold up and the situation would be really worrying, as you say, this could in no way be the result of the government's work, which took place on 3 December last year, because the situation is not changing in this way. Moreover, such comparisons have never been made on the basis of quarterly growth. The information you provide is also data that is not cleared of seasonal influences: as long as you do this, you will get different numbers. The Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development, in which all employees are still the same as in previous mandates - including the Director - says that trends are not concerned that they are simply a few seasonal impacts and the fact that 60% of economic growth in Slovenia is based on the structure of the economy, as is currently the case with 60% of economic growth, depending on the situation in the five most important markets of the countries with which we are most involved - Germany, Italy, France, Austria, Croatia - and also those trends were similar. As far as domestic problems are concerned, which make economic growth not greater - and even in the past four years it has not been great - cannot be resolved without certain reforms - what can be done in the short term. This government is working, primarily to remove administrative barriers that hoard economic processes and prevent more dynamics and thus increase economic growth. This is a strengthening of financial discipline, which we pay a lot of attention to, is the pressure to make better use of the results of scientific research in the economy. These are things the government is pursuing, but a significant acceleration of economic growth in Slovenia in terms of the structure we have, cannot be expected without more serious reforms mainly tax reform. In this regard, during this year, we will present the necessary corrections to the tax reform adopted last year and is weak, and in the shortest possible time, even more radical changes, once all studies have been completed. At that time, the government has also adopted a series of measures under the law on the promotion of foreign investment, which, of course, can also have a significant impact on economic growth. The law adopted towards the end of last year's term of office was inoperable, a number of sub-legislative acts are needed, they have been adopted, so this will also have an impact. In short, the assessment of the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development is that due to economic growth in the first three months of this year, which was 2.6% - the data is an uncleaned seasonal impact - there is no need to reduce the annual forecast of economic growth and the government remains with it on the basis of its views.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-13-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u43	Thank you, Mr. President. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-13-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u44	Thank you very much for this answer, otherwise you yourself have said in your reply which markets are the best, most important for Slovenia and which affect economic growth. So last year, economic growth in the European Union was practically the same as last year, and last year we recorded 4.6% of economic growth, this year 2.7% of economic growth, and this is a fundamental problem, so I noted that the problem is the relationship between one and another economic growth. Even if you look at this report in the closet, you will see that all of these comments, the statements that I've been talking about here themselves, they are exactly what they are saying and they are referring to this as a big problem. At the same time, if you look closely, the material has a clean-up of the seasonal influences that you're talking about here as the main factors. However, once again, in the last 12 years, economic growth in Slovenia has never been as low as it is at this moment. The balance of the budget, according to the Chamber of Economics, is unacceptable and developmentally unacceptable. It reduces the development part of the budget, reduces the resources to implement a programme to increase the competitiveness of the economy by more than 50% - I quote, their paper - reduces the share of funds to promote technological development and innovation. In short, I wonder: Will you insist on the proposed balance? As I have been told so far, you do not accept any amendment of the opposition, nor any amendment proposed by anyone else. I also ask you: Will you support the abolition of the tax on paid wages? Such a law has been tabled in the parliamentary procedure today, which means that the economy would be burdened by 80 billion in the next two years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-13-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u45	Thank you, Mr. Rope. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-13-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u46	Thank you, too, for this additional question. Happy are those who, after three months, can predict what a year - long economic growth will be! I don't think so. I continue to repeat what the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development has calculated, which notes that after three months we do not need to change the spring forecast for economic growth and remain at 3.8%. As far as the budget is concerned, the name already says it is a budget balance. Thus, we are correcting the budget and correcting it with what needs to be ensured because of legal obligations, given that the previous government has not provided this or that new needs have arisen, which were not yet on the table at the time the budget was adopted. If these holes were smaller, it could be more about the development part of the budget. However, it is not true that the development part of the budget after the rebalancing, if adopted, is shrinking, but it is indeed the other way around to increase. So anyone who can calculate is going to calculate it very easily. Nor is it true that quarterly economic growth has been the lowest in the first three months of this year. Sorry, it's not like that. Over the past four years, there have been years, especially in 2003, when we had such low growth at the annual level. But if we look at the three-month period - and now you are talking about data for the three-month period - in previous mandates, then we can find many quarterly periods when economic growth was lower. And on the basis of three months, it cannot be concluded that even at the end of the year, especially if we are talking about non-seasonal effects, economic growth will be such. This report for the first three months sets out very realistically what is being transferred in some way from the outside, given that the Slovenian economy earns a large part of its income in foreign markets, and what is what is, let's say, a deficiency at home. We are aware of this, and I stress once again that this has not occurred in these three months, but we have received this inherited.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-13-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u47	Thank you, Mr. President. Do you have a suggestion? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-13-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u48	I have a procedural proposal. On the basis of Article 246(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that the National Assembly decide to hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Government or its President. Well, if I can explain. It is not a forecast of economic growth for this year, as has been said, that the government must act on time. And we are confident that the government can act in a timely manner and if it does so, we can have positive economic growth. It's not about fixing the budget, it's about [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-13-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u49	Mr Rob, the debate will be on the President's answer, not on your question.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-13-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u50	Can I explain the reason for the procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-13-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u51	The procedure will be voted on.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-13-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u52	So I have two minutes to explain. Can I?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-13-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u53	Yes, the vote will be tomorrow.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-13-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u54	Yeah, well, I have the right to explain why we decided to ask for a discussion on this answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-13-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u55	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-13-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u56	Since it is not appropriate, it is bad and does not represent those measures that should be taken by the government at this time. So, the point is that we are confident that the government will insist on the rebalancing, as it has suggested not to follow the proposals, will not take the debate into account. Finally, it will not take account of the Chamber of Commerce. Today we have heard that they obviously cannot count on the Chamber of Commerce because they are talking about the budget being underdeveloped. It is more than obvious that the government has no response to the decline in economic growth and, of course, what I said earlier is that in 12 years we have not had relatively low economic growth as before. During the period when we had lower economic growth, economic growth in the EU was significantly lower. We therefore propose a public debate so that we can talk about measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-13-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u57	Thank you. The next Prime Minister will be asked a question by the representative of the Social Democrats, Mr Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-13-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u58	Thank you for your word, President. The Honourable Prime Minister. In the last period, Slovenia has been shaken by agricultural-related affairs. Let me list some of the most resilient veterinary imports of calves from Romania with incomplete animal health documentation. This is an affair that endangers the health of users, and subsidies are also being paid to calves and the correctness of the subsidy register is again questioned. In fact, the second affair is, in so doing, linked to the destruction of documentation for agricultural subsidies, where the billions of amounts of budget money that have been paid have been lost. The next affair, which is also extremely receptive, is the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia and the sale of state agricultural land that will become a building. Here, the state and the municipalities are losing hundreds of millions of dollars and the question is, Who is behind these proceedings? I wonder: How will the government deal with the chaotic situation in agriculture? What personnel and legislative changes can we expect, and when? I am particularly interested in this because the EU's new financial perspective is clearly reducing funds to reduce regional disparities, and it is clear that the most affected rural areas will be where 52% of the population live in Slovenia. That is why it will be very important how we will be prepared in the country for these facts, since the EU will make the most of the resources for rural and agricultural areas. And of course, if we want to gain this, it will be very important: How will any laws you make be formed? I am particularly interested in: How will a law on the agricultural land and forests of the Republic of Slovenia, which is poor in the Slovenian countryside, at the same time, is an extremely large asset in the management of the fund, as it is estimated at 275 billion tolars? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-13-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u59	Thank you, Mr. Weber. Mr. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-13-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u60	Thank you for asking. I could not agree that there is a chaotic situation at agriculture or at the Ministry of Agriculture, at least it would be difficult to say that we have inherited a more chaotic state here than elsewhere. There are things of concern, but it is precisely in relation to what you have discussed last time that I can say that it has been in the past and that it is still the agricultural sector that has mastered most of the European funds. Slovenia has also negotiated the best situation among the new EU members here. The EU also estimates that this area concerns the organisation and the ability to draw on European funds in Slovenia is best regulated. The net position of Slovenia, when it comes to these funds, is almost 30% better than the average in the other new Member States of the European Union. If we look at the reality of this segment, which you mentioned last time, then in some government departments we have inherited a much more worrying situation, which is why Slovenia is not yet able to access the resources available in European funds. Last year, however, the situation was very bad. Nor should we forget that when it comes to certain problems that you have mentioned, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Government directly do not have the authority to resolve matters, as well as, I don't know, it can solve them where they have these powers. For example, a fund of agricultural land and forests. We know how the powers are divided. We have largely followed these debates in the National Assembly when this legislation was adopted. In the end, the Director or Director of this Fund shall be endorsed by the National Assembly. The Supervisory Board of this Fund shall appoint a National Assembly, not a Government. The government also appoints only part of the representatives to the Council of this Fund. And given the current situation there, this week the government will replace its representatives, its part of the representatives in the world of the agricultural forest and land fund. According to information circulated in the public, which was partly discussed in this hall during the course of last year, it is obvious that there is an irregularity there. It is also obvious that these irregularities are linked not only to one party, as they are now trying to appear in some media, but that this is quite widely dispersed and approximately proportionally distributed by the influence and power of the previous coalition. Anyway, we're about to clear these things up. This government will insist that, even when it comes to agricultural subsidies, records are established by saying that some of the findings that have occurred do not. They don't. Until 2000, a regulation adopted by the Government - the one that was then - was in force on the basis of which annual contracts for the award of these subsidies were signed. And this regulation allowed procedures beyond the administrative procedure law. It allowed the granting of subsidies without decisions, beyond the administrative procedure law, so that now saying that there were no such documents is purely a misappropriation, but if a regulation was adopted by the Government allowing it. And if anyone is responsible, it is the one who has just adopted this regulation, and under this regulation things have happened. Since 2000, when an agency is established, functioning has been significantly better and, of course, records are significantly better. You'll probably complete the question and then I'll complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-13-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u61	Thank you, Mr. President. Yes, please, Mr. Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-13-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u62	Thank you. Well, I would not agree that it is not a chaotic situation in the field of agriculture, because indeed all the data we have received lately is very worrying. And it is precisely because I am concerned that Slovenia will continue to receive so much from the European Union, that today it seems extremely important that we examine very carefully all payments of subsidies, establish this record as soon as possible, and I really do not know why the government has taken 60 days and why not 30 days as the opposition proposes. I am particularly concerned because even at the time when the Social Democrats warned in 1999 that these irregularities were happening, the SDS was speechless. And I'm worried that he's speechless today, and there's no clear answer, and he's trying to take responsibility for other parties. The fact is that the farm and forest fund is under direct control of the right all the time. Therefore, we expect an effective amendment of the Agricultural Land Fund Act, particularly in this direction, the President, because you yourself have found that the government does not have direct control over 275 billion assets, that the Ministry does not have direct control. Our proposal was to include this fund in the Public Funds Act, where the Minister is the Chairman of the Supervisory Board. I ask you: Will the Minister be responsible for the operation of the Fund after a new year and, of course, the government?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-13-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u63	Thank you, Mr. Weber. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-13-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u64	I agree with that last one. I think that transparency needs to be ensured here, even when it comes to accountability. That's absolute. It would be difficult to tell you exactly what solutions are being prepared, but it is in the Government's normative work programme to present this year, and this will be done. It was difficult for me to say that the parties who were in the opposition were to blame for the situation being what it was, because we did not vote. The former government has proposed the current fund director and the previous coalition has voted. Now, to say that's what the current coalition put up, it's a little funny. Even if we look at the Internet, because it has recently been published on the website, who has been all involved in various good treatments in the land transaction, especially with parcels on the Slovenian coast, you will find very few members of the Slovenian Democratic Party. I didn't find any, but I found many others, and I advise you to take a look at this on the website. As long as these records are being supplemented, this will be published, I think that the key prevention against data abuse is the public. Any transaction arising from State resources may not be protected by such or otherwise classified clause. It's right that neighbors know if someone's got a plot, that the response is to make things right if they're wrong. The fact that the matter is public is, as has already been said, a major prevention against irregularities. And in the shortest possible time, we will establish this transparency in this part that is not yet, but in the last period these data are public and are, I must say, very, very interesting. I am pleased that we agree that this area needs to be made transparent. We will be pleased to see your support when the government proposes such legislation, and we will also be pleased to see any support for the measures that the government will take in the direction of determining responsibility for such a situation.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-13-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u65	Thank you. Representative of New Slovenia [[...]] [[Back-up advertising.]] Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-13-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u66	Mr President of the National Assembly, I have just received a notice that the continuation of the meeting of the Finance Committee in the large lounge is called for at 4:00. I ask you kindly if you or Mr Prime Minister can protect the Minister of Finance, because he cannot be at two meetings at the same time. Above all, I want you to ensure that Members and Members of the National Assembly are able to attend the meetings of the National Assembly. And I ask you to order Mr President of the Finance Committee to convene a meeting of the Finance Committee after the meeting of the National Assembly is concluded. I think that this would be a precedent for the first time in the history of the Council's work at the same time as the meeting, parliamentary issues, item 1 of the agenda, to be either Members or even Minister of Finance at once at two meetings. I think it's unacceptable and it's a bad practice. The invitation has come, we have been informed of this, so please, as the first of the same, ensure the conditions for normal work.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-13-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u67	Thank you. I think that both the professional services and the chairman of the committee have heard your proposal, so that we can continue to discuss or raise the questions sent. The representative of New Slovenia, Mr Aloise Sok, will ask the Prime Minister a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-13-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u68	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Members and Members of Parliament! On 27 March 1993, the Governments of the Republic of Slovenia and the Federal Republic of Germany signed an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on financial assistance for the creation of the existence and professional integration of qualified workers in the Republic of Slovenia. The Agreement was published in Official Journal No 2 of 4.2.1993 and was intended to allow the return of Slovenian natives. For the implementation of the Agreement, the Ministry of Labour has also established and confirmed the criteria for the use of financial assistance in accordance with Article 1, paragraph 1, of the Agreement. On 11 February 1993, the Ministry of Labour issued dedicated criteria for obtaining the loan from the funds under the Integration Agreement. Each country contributed €10 million to the agreement, and this money was to be paid to its home for investments in their projects in the form of loans. The loan was granted by the SIB Bank, which was headed by Mr Klemenčič. Initially, loans were made at a then rebalancing interest rate reduced by 15% and a real interest rate of 4%. In 1995, however, foreign exchange clauses were granted to borrowers and the interest rate was raised to 6%. As of 1.1.1995, the borrowers thus signed an addendum to a contract amending Article 2 of the Treaty by agreeing to a foreign exchange valorisation clause, which means that the instrument for the valorisation of credits has become a movement of the foreign exchange exchange rate, in a specific case, it was German brands. Under such conditions, the SIB managed to grant 369 loans by the end of 2002 and the maximum possible amount was EUR 150,000. The SIB also issued studies to all borrowers justifying their investments, although most likely in the bank they should know that all of the activities they decided to do did not have the opportunity to repay the loan in a timely manner. So far, this loan has only been able to repay 75 residents, the rest of the loan has not been repaid; even more, some owe much more than they have borrowed. Their assets began to be sold at auction and the fates of the borrowers were different, some even tragic. Dear Mr. Prime Minister! I ask you: What, if anything, can the government do in this case? And: How can the situation be resolved? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-13-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u69	Thank you, Mr. Sok. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-13-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u70	Thank you for asking. We met for the first time, I think, in this same hall last year, when we discussed the ways and the way of this SIB bank. In fact, the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs here can do relatively little, even though it was then a cosigner from the government. This problem is being addressed in the government by the Ministry of Finance, and I would like to ask the Minister of Finance, Dr. Bayuk, to tell you what the chances are for us to find a solution in a relatively short time if there is one.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-13-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u71	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Very briefly. The matter is known to the government. We have also faced presentations by borrowers who are obviously very difficult to fulfil their duties. The fact is that in 2003 the government decided and agreed that Nova Ljubljanska Banka took a majority stake in the SIB bank, but did not fully take over this programme as such. The programme currently implemented by Deutsche Entwicklungsgesellschaft on behalf of the Republic of Slovenia and the SIB was not transferred to the New Ljubljana Bank. The new Ljubljana Bank offered, and this last July, a very limited programme, according to our assessment, to find answers to certain questions. At the moment, we are in talks with the Nova Ljubljanska Banka administration to actually redesign this programme so that a solution can be found, some final solution, as far as this is concerned. But I must also point out that the point is a relationship. The direct relationship, however, is the bankruptcy leader who is currently dealing with this matter. The only help that the Slovenian government can provide and that is why we are having a conversation with the New Ljubljana Bank to actually change the loan scheme in such a way as to enable the survival of these people whose lives are at least economically severely threatened. I would like to add that none of them will require forgiveness, but such conditions that they will be able to recover the funds they have received, under conditions that will be in line with the funding they have accepted, which is what this programme was in essence. I hope that, as soon as possible, we can also report back to this National Assembly on the success or failure of these talks with the New Ljubljana Bank administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-13-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u72	Thank you, Prime Minister and Minister of Finance. Can I help you, Mr. Sok? Yes, there you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-13-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u73	Thank you very much for that answer. I understand essentially that the government is working on this, and I think that procedures should be accelerated, because the first auctions have already been carried out for those whose obligations have fallen. In fact, something in this area should be done quickly. Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-13-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u74	Thank you, Mr. Sok. At the fifth and sixth meetings of the National Assembly, the Members asked questions from the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr Dimitri Rupl, and the Minister for Health of Mags. Andrea Brucana. Since the Ministers were not present at the meetings at the time and the Members requested an oral response, the Minister of Health will reply below and the Minister of Foreign Affairs is absent today due to his obligations in Luxembourg. Answers from Minister of Health Mag. Mr Bručan will follow up on the questions raised at the sixth meeting of the assembly; first of all, I would like to draw attention to the question raised by Dr Matej Lahovnik regarding the protection of the rights of supplementary health insurance insurers and ensuring the uniformity of insurance undertakings against the law. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-13-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u75	Thank you very much for the question and also for the word. I must simply say that the Ministry of Health has been studying for a long time those options that will lead to the protection of the rights of insured persons with regard to supplementary health insurance and, of course, to ensure the equality of insurance undertakings. I must say that this procedure, as you well know, has been in preparation for a long time also in the previous period and that the law on compensatory schemes has, in fact, been in the Ministry's drawer for the past four years. However, these laws or legislation in the sense of compensatory schemes have not been implemented in the past period, since there is likely to have been another strategy for supplementary insurance during this period. We have already forwarded the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health and Health Insurance Act to the professional public and also to the Economic and Social Council, and this law, which will deal with it, will also be the problem of insurance and compensatory schemes dealt with by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia this month. This proposal defines voluntary health insurance in a way that imposes equal treatment on all insurance undertakings entering the voluntary health insurance market, regardless of their age, health status and other circumstances. This is also the basis of compensatory schemes. The new law therefore regulates compensatory schemes, thus eliminating the same situation of insurance undertakings carrying out supplementary health insurance and which have had a different age structure of their insurers, as we know, some insurance undertakings have a significantly higher age than others, but have some other advantages in operating and have in fact withdrawn them from independence. That is why we have also proposed that this matter should be dealt with in a rapid manner, the issue of the introduction and implementation of these compensatory schemes, with particular emphasis on insurance based on the principle of intergenerational reciprocity with the definition of public interest, which is, of course, after 2000, as I said in the introduction, a somewhat open professional and political theme all the time. The proposal also includes a requirement for the level of premiums for all insurers of the same insurance undertaking and a uniform supplementary insurance in all insurance undertakings. Of course, the transition to such a new arrangement is a rather demanding process. But, fortunately, he doesn't have any new organs. Decisions on compensatory schemes will be implemented and issued by the Ministry of Health following an appropriate procedure, which is also provided for in the bill. There is another interesting aspect in this proposal, but it will, of course, be in the best interest of the insurers. The proposal also provides for the refund of mathematical provisions and provisions for the age of insured persons, as well as for more precise provisions and conditions on the composition of the mutual association assembly. This seems to us so far in this composition, as it is, inappropriate, although of course our influence here is relatively small, given that it is a private society with public interest. In this regard, perhaps I would like to say a few more words about the requirements for increasing the premiums of various insurance companies of voluntary health insurance in recent times. Perhaps I would only reply that the ministry has been opposed to the increase in premiums all the time and that the current 5.8% increase by the mutual insurance company was only partially in agreement with the Ministry's view that it was somehow necessary to increase the premiums only at the level of inflation. I think that as much as I have answered your question, and I hope, of course, that with your help, we will also adopt the law that is in preparation as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-13-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u76	Thank you, Minister. Yeah, you want a supplement to the answer? Mr. Lakhovnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-13-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u77	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary, for your answer. I have, of course, made this very clear, even for this reason, because some insurers received a mutual offer at home in early 2005 offering them the transformation of life contracts into fixed-term contracts into 12-year contracts relating to supplementary health insurance. I also have this offer here, it's posted on the Internet. This is because all those who converted these contracts into 12-year-olds were not paid back the money they had formed in the form of age reservations, mathematical age reservations. If this new law actually foresees and people will come to their money that belongs to them, of course I will support it and I think this direction is the only right one. This money is owned by citizens and citizens, who also created it, and not by insurance companies. He can't and can't disappear in the insurance balance sheets. The second thing - of course in this regard, the market inspectorate assessed this offer as also misleading and reported the insurance company to the offender judge. It's another thing about encouragement. It should be pointed out that already all those who have not converted their contract into 12-year-olds have been encouraged by 14% in March. People are calling me and saying there's been some kind of exaggeration. Also this extra promotion, 5.8%, is not justified in my opinion. I wonder what methodology it is based on, and it is, of course, the dominant position of one insurance company. The question is, who will protect a small person, citizens and citizens from such an increase in supplementary health insurance premiums that significantly affect the social situation of individual citizens and citizens. That's why I think it's right here. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Let us also try to protect citizens and citizens in particular through compensatory schemes. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-13-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u78	Thank you, Mr. Lakhovnik. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-13-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u79	In fact, we're actually quite interesting, quite the same opinion. The whole thing that's been in preparation for so long has now been finalized and we are also trying to satisfy those wishes and demands that you have just said. In any case, we have already foreseen them in the legislation we have been preparing for the past few months, without knowing your demands and wishes. First of all, because the direction of the former government went in a different direction and you probably know that, it went against compensatory schemes and also went in the direction of actually abolishing supplementary health insurance, by making this money unjustifiable, which is indeed owned by private individuals, indeed by private individuals, into compulsory health insurance, into a state insurance company in practice. That is why we have opposed it all the time, before and even now, and have also introduced this opposition into the envisaged amendment of the legislation. I agree with you that this money, which was from the insured, from individuals, in terms of reservations, must be returned as soon as possible. And we also propose that this refund is actually based on the real-paid sum of the insured that was paid at that time. Of course, some of the incentives, 14% of them, I think they only cover 10% of the insured. The 90% of the insured who are or will receive an insurance premium increase from July 1st to 5.8% of the insurance amount. I think that, in fact, by bringing the compensatory schemes to this point, as it is today, we will be able to assure the insurers of what you want now in the second part of your performance. In particular, two things: for the first time that they will be equal, regardless of their age in the payment of premiums and for the second, that insurance companies will also be equal, regardless of the age, gender and health structures of the insured. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-13-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u80	Thank you, Minister. Would you like to make a suggestion? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-13-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u81	Thank you very much. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 246, I propose that a public debate be held with regard to the Minister's reply. Above all, this seems essential to me because we can actually find out that there have been some incitements to supplementary health insurance, as you yourself have found. I know that at this point you may not be able to explain exactly why this percentage. But just the fact that people have been paying for it from month to month is extremely controversial. And it seems to me that in this work, especially given that there is obviously no adequate competition in this area, and that some have a dominant position to crystallize this issue more clearly through this debate. With regard to compensatory schemes, of course, I support your position, as I have said, as I have also supported it as a member of the previous government. So this claim of yours that there was another concept, it's not true. And I think that this can also be demonstrated in a public debate that will be welcome, because it is a sensitive social issue, a supplementary health insurance that actually concerns all our citizens and citizens. It is therefore right to have an in-depth discussion here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-13-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u82	Thank you. Ms Majda Potrat is Minister of Health [[...]] [[background advertising]] raise a question regarding breast cancer prevention activities. [[...]] Mr Minister, before you answer that question, allow for a procedural proposal on the part of Mr Squill. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-13-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u83	Mr President, you were in grave violation of the rules of procedure just now. We propose that the National Assembly decide on the following procedural proposal: that, in accordance with the third paragraph of Article 73, where it is stated that the President shall terminate the work of the National Assembly if the opinion of the working bodies is to be obtained. At present, the meeting of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy convened by the Chair after consulting you has been convened and Rule 30 of the Rules of Procedure makes it clear that they cannot hold two meetings at the same time. Moreover, there would be no point in working on a plan for the work of the national assembly, since we have a definition of when the work of the working bodies and when the work of the national assembly is. So far, it has not happened that a meeting of the national assembly or the working body has been held at the same time. Several Members are present at a meeting of the members of the home working body, so I would like to ask that, in accordance with the third paragraph of Article 73 or that the meeting of the national assembly be suspended because the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy is about to begin, or that you order the President of the home working body to suspend the meeting of the home working body. I want you to put this procedural proposal to the vote and before the vote, we will explain our vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-13-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u84	This is not a procedural issue or a proposal that could be put to the vote. It is not necessary for a working body to discuss this item of the agenda, which is a matter of question, and to give its position on this item of the agenda. However, I am sure that the president of the committee and the professional service know about your proposal, and I ask that the members of the committee agree on how you will proceed with your work. However, no Member will be prevented from asking the question, as he announced to a certain minister. We're moving on. So, you've already set it up, Mr. Squeakle, I think that's quite clear. Please agree with the chairman of the committee when to discuss the follow-up and how. Here comes the agenda item you've confirmed together. Mr. Sculpture.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-13-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u85	Mr President, I propose that, in accordance with your current proposal, you decide to set aside half an hour in order to possibly inform the Chairman of the Finance Committee and monetary policy of those rules of procedure which set the order in the national assembly and which are voted on approximately so that no other working body may be invoked at the time of the meeting of the national assembly. I suggest that you give us half an hour and use this half-hour to inform the chairman of the committee, at the proposal of our parliamentary group under this item. Otherwise, those members of the National Assembly, who, of course, are also members of this Committee, who is preparing for the budget, may not be able to participate on the Committee, but, of course, this may mean a dispute that, in a procedural sense, all their work will be in vain for a simple reason because they are not allowed to participate in the meetings of the parent committee. For it is impossible to leave the Members to decide whether to act at a meeting of the committee which, by the way, is called against the Rules of Procedure, or to participate in a meeting of the National Assembly, where they are obliged to participate according to their choices. I ask for half an hour's rest to be used by you, or by us, to inform the president of the working body of the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-13-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u86	Mr Školč, I must say that there is no provision in the Rules of Procedure that, at the time of the meeting of the National Assembly, he cannot occupy a single working body. However, I would like to ask you whether I can put this proposal to a vote after it has left questions from the previous meetings, to which Mr Bručan has to answer, Maja Patrati and Maria Possonec. When this is over, I would put an end to the vote if the issue on the committee itself would not be resolved in the meantime.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-13-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u87	Mr President, if it were up to my good faith, of course I would say right away: yes. If I were to say yes, I'd make a mistake because at this point, there are meetings of the parent board, and I think it's best that you give us that half an hour right now. Minister Bručan's colleagues waited a bad month, and Minister Bručan will be able to wait half an hour to continue with the answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-13-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u88	Then I am obliged to put this procedural proposal to the vote. You heard him, he's suggesting a half-hour interruption. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 52 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 19. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 19.]] I am adjourning the meeting of the National Assembly and continuing at 4.40 p.m.)
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-13-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u89	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! We're continuing our adjourned session. I'm asking the proposer, does he have any explanation, a comment? Here you go, Mr. Skull.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-13-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u90	Dear Mr. President. After a discussion in the parliamentary group and following a scrutiny review of the business provisions, we believe that there is no reason not to continue to ask the ministers and ministers the questions sent for a simple reason, because it is one of the key instruments that Members have at their disposal and through them also the public to ask the ministers, after their decisions, by the state in a particular area and so on. The suspension of this sitting, or the inability, of this point or the inability to participate at such a point, would constitute a very large interference with these rights which Members have. At the same time, of course, we believe that the entire Rules of Procedure have already been written in such a way that there is no doubt that, during the meeting of the national assembly, it is not possible to convene any working body, except in Article 73, a third point, when these situations arise, in which, for example, the national assembly may request an additional opinion from the national working body. We do not, of course, need these points of this additional opinion at this time. We also see the need for the normal work of the National Assembly to meet the conditions referred to in Article 59 and Article 61 of this Rules of Procedure, which means that it is necessary to have, as it is a regular meeting, virtually all the materials on the table at the beginning of the meeting. From this point of view, I am speaking here on my behalf, in fact, I believe that the vote on the agenda was an error when the budget balance was adopted on the agenda, because this point simply did not have the basis referred to in paragraphs 59 and 61. And in this sense, it would be the duty of the head of the assembly to draw attention to this and withdraw this point. From this point of view, the ambition of the Chairman of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, if we are truly consistent, will not be achieved without violations of the Rules of Procedure within this meeting and may continue this meeting or today after the meeting, but the relevant question will certainly be raised as to whether this point can be addressed within this regular meeting. I don't think so. This is in your mind, eventually, if necessary, it can also be formulated as a matter of business commission. This is what the clearly written provisions speak for, all practice speaks for, I will say, the past years, and that is also what the practice of the former opposition is talking about, when it simply did not allow the points for [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-13-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u91	Mr. Skull, you're already pretty strong in three minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-13-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u92	I'm sorry, I'm done with this sentence. All these reasons speak against this being possible. Our proposal is that we continue with the questions raised by the Members, our colleagues will therefore not be able to attend this meeting of the Committee if it runs. But if it runs, we'll simply initiate appropriate procedures to challenge its legitimacy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-13-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u93	Thank you. He's also president of the Finance Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-13-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u94	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members. On behalf of our committee, I propose that this afternoon's debate on the questions sent be brought forward to the next week with a view to having a quality debate on the budget's rebalancing and adopting the relevant conclusions within the deadline. I just have to start by the rules of procedure one day before the meeting of the National Assembly. Unfortunately, despite a four-hour debate, we were able to discuss and conclude, reach an opinion only by the first amendment and have 77. I would ask that you allow us, without all possible and necessary misunderstandings, to continue our meeting until the end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-13-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u95	Thank you. There is no discussion on the proposals. There is no debate on procedural proposals, unless someone else has an additional one, as I am told here, we must first vote on the procedural proposal. [[...]] Mr Školč did not make a procedural proposal, but believes it is good that it continues as planned. The proposal is, therefore, to end this point and continue - this is said to be the point of the question - on Wednesday at 10 a.m. This will, of course, remove the other points on Wednesday at 10 a.m. on Wednesday, which is June 22nd. We will vote and in accordance with paragraph 73 of the third paragraph, which states: 'The President shall terminate the work of the national assembly if', etc. "and in other cases, where the National Assembly so decides." If the National Assembly so decides, I will end this point and we will continue on Wednesday, 22.6.2005 at 10 a.m. We will first vote on this, then we will possibly vote on other procedural proposals. We're voting. [[Back-up advertising.]] There's no explanation for the voice! There are 62 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 17. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 17.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. I hereby terminate this agenda item, which we will continue on Wednesday, 22.6.2005 at 10 a.m. Thank you very much.
