ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u1	Your Honor! I begin the continuation of the 9th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Roberto Battelli, Ljubo Germič, Aleš Gulič, Kristijan Janc, Drago Koren, Breda Pecan, Dr Mitja Slavinec, Majda Širca, Villa Trofenik, Flower Zalokar Orazem and Bojan Starman. Let's continue with 1. Agenda item - By defence and vote on the government's amendment to the 2005 National Budget Balance Would you like a representative of the government? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like to speak to the representative of the parent working body who addressed the harmonisation amendment? Mr. Kovacich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary! At 9 a.m. today, at 9 a.m., the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy discussed the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to harmonise the proposal for a rebalancing of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2005. On the basis of the amendments adopted to the specific part of the draft budget rebalancing proposal, the government has drawn up a harmonisation amendment to harmonise the national budget's balance by component. On the basis of the amendments adopted to the specific work, it is also necessary to adapt the general part of the budget and the development programme plan. The Committee supported the harmonisation amendment. However, in the discussion on the content of the harmonisation amendment, a comment was made by the LDS Member Club on the preamble to the tabled balance in that part which lists the entire 40th section of the Public Finance Act as the legal basis for the submission of this act. In this regard, in view of the fact that the government had not implemented budgetary balancing measures prior to the submission of the rebalancing exercise, as provided for in the first four paragraphs of Article 40 of the Public Finance Act, and given the fact that the receipts of the budget had not been reduced but had been increased, the proposal put forward specifically in the preamble to mention only the fifth paragraph of Article 40 of the Public Finance Act. This solution, according to the LDS Club, would ensure the legality of the adoption of the balance presented. The Minister reiterated the arguments that were explained at the very meeting of the parent working body in dealing with the rebalancing. The Committee agreed with this view, as today's meeting of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy was unable to address what has already been dealt with in the consideration of the balance sheet itself. On the basis of the debate, the parent working body or the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy supported the harmonisation amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u3	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. Of course, those who still have time to discuss. Before that, I would like to tell you that an extraordinary meeting is expected to take place from 10 a.m. to 12 p.m. From 12 a.m. to 5 p.m., the meeting should be held on a regular basis and possibly the continuation of the extraordinary meeting, if it should continue. I give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. Please. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to harmonise the balance of the state budget. Mr. Squeakle, an explanation of the voice? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u4	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Member's Club. I would like to tell the esteemed National Assembly that the Commission, or the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, has missed out on the possibility of adopting a legitimate balance sheet. For we accept the balance of the state budget when there is more revenue than planned. However, article 40 of the Public Finance Act, adopted in September 1999, states that it can also be dealt with by means of a rebalancing when the receipts of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia are reduced. If the Committee on Finance, like Mr Kovacic, did not fully understand, because there was no decision, adopted the proposal by the Club of Members, then they would have a legal balance of the state budget. We have proposed that this should also be addressed by the legislative and legal service. It is incorrect to say that this budget balance is adopted on the basis of Article 40 of the Public Finance Act, because then the Minister should act and because there should be less revenue than in the 2005 budget. Actually, the situation is the other way around. And the Public Finance Act conservatively prohibits the government from spending when there are more, but actually requires it to save it for the future. The government has made a different decision. Without budgetary balancing measures, the Government has decided to draw up a balance sheet, referring to Article 52 of the Law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. If the preamble said that the basis for the rebalancing was paragraphs 5 and 5 of Article 40 and 52 of the law on the implementation of the budget, then at least we would formally follow what is a fact. To say that we are adopting a budget rebalancing after more revenue is wrong and contrary to Article 40 of the Public Finance Act. You all know the Minister didn't act. The Minister of Finance did not take action in the first half of this year, but he should take action in order to propose a rebalance within 30 days, as every mayor has done. The Minister did not act, but proposed a rebalancing only on the basis of Article 52 of the law on the implementation of the budget. That is why we believe that we have an illegal balance of the state budget, and we wanted to solve this on the home labour body, to propose, to suggest a solution, but of course they are no longer important arguments, the number of votes is important. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Anyone else, please? Before that, I would like to say that we are moving on to a decision on the amendment to harmonise the balance. So I would ask you to focus this debate on this harmonisation amendment, not on the debate. Mr. Petan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u6	Thank you for your word. I will support the amendment, and for a simple reason, because this amendment will make this rebalancing real, it will make it legal. This is because the minister acted and prepared this balance with the government. This rebalancing was needed, as I said yesterday, to go down with a cloud on the real floor, to make a balance of the existing situation, to find out what this situation is, to prepare it in a legal framework, to confirm that the government and the Slovenian state will know what we are up to, and that the government will have some real framework for work to continue to have some real foundation. Maybe someone could figure out why it didn't happen about a week earlier or a month earlier. But as far as I know, it was not possible before, because some of the financial routes were so windy that it was not directly possible to determine what the situation was, but only on the basis of requests for various payments, payments of annuity and so on. I hope that the government has now succeeded in all these resources, which have been slightly hidden, identified and brought into this balance. Thus, there is no problem that I would not support this amendment, which will make this rebalance and this financial picture of the Slovenian State realistically and legally. So, I'll back it up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Mr Mikolič, New Slovenia has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u8	Thank you very much and very much! I will support the proposed amendment. In this respect, too, in view of the budget's proposed rebalancing, some are forgetting once again that there has been a 70 billion-dollar gap in the 2005 budget. This is certainly one of the reasons why a budget rebalancing was needed. To claim that the revenues are so much and so many billions higher and that a reallocation could take place is inappropriate. It is inappropriate from this point of view that we want or require a transparent budget. And it was prepared by the new government. It would be a great time for some deceiving under section 40 of the Public Finance Act to be interpreted in its own way. I strongly deny that this is not the case. Therefore, it would be right not to mislead the public from this point of view. I'll back the amendment myself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u9	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to harmonise the balance of the state budget. Explanations to the voice. They were. Excuse me. We're voting. I note that there were 51 Members and Members present, 39 votes in favour, 9 votes in favour. (For the vote was 39.)(against 9.) I take it that the harmonisation amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a full vote on the proposal for a budget rebalancing. We are moving on to a debate and decision on the 2005 rebalancing of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia as a whole. Who wants a word? Mr. Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Mr Minister, representatives and representatives of the government, Members and Members of Parliament! Members of the Social Democrats' Group will not support this proposal for a rebalancing, because the reasons given in our performances, from the presentation of the Group's position to the debate held yesterday by colleagues and colleagues at the time of the amendments, in general work, are even more topical. Thus, no amendment was adopted, which is important, which would be in the interest of faster and better development of the Slovenian economy. Only three amendments were accepted, but they were not of this kind. With what has happened in Brussels, the collapse of the negotiations on the next financial perspective is even more in favour of the critical arguments that we have put forward in our debates, and this will be the case for this year already, for the implementation of this rebalancing, and especially for the budgets for the coming years. It is obvious that we will not be able to attract the resources that individual ministries have planned and with which they have also rejected our arguments, since resources will not be reduced to promote the economic development of entrepreneurship, competitiveness, employment, technological development and so on. In fact, this will not be the case, and all of this speaks for the fact that we are even more confident that such a balance is not useful, rather harmful, so we will not support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u12	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. The Slovenian People's Party's Group will support this budget rebalancing, not just because of the financial gaps we have listened to in these months or days, but because it is understandable that after two years of adoption, the implementation of this budget has also emerged in many areas in an additional new governance situation in the governance of the country. Above all, I would like to point out that, given that the second half of June already exists, that the government or individual resources will have to strongly and thoroughly support that the budget will also be implemented in investment areas this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mr. Pache has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u14	Your Honors are here! Yesterday and in the days before, we have heard that the government itself is perceived to be a bit chaotic in this area. If the Prime Minister has designated or identified this budget as a recovery budget, on the other hand, the Minister of Finance, as the Minister of Finance, the proposer, has designated it a developmental one. No recovery mark, no development mark, cannot identify the above-mentioned balance before us. However, even if we let go of the terminology of the minister and the Prime Minister, the main criticism of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group at the said financial party is that something was wrong with the time machine. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u15	There's a debate going on. You have a little more time.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u16	However, the main criticism of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group is the structure of revenue, the tax and tax relations. [[...]] We believed that the new Financial Minister's approach would be changed and that the practice or conduct of the budget promoters so far would no longer exist. According to our assessment, we cannot talk about progress in this area in any way if more than 90% of public finances are supplied exclusively from tax sources. As long as this is done in the context of a public financial picture in our country, we will, of course, oppose this in the Slovenian Party's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? Yes, please, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. We have before us the final act of adopting the budget rebalancing. The balance had to be taken as a matter of urgency. We have heard this from the media and also from the Minister of Finance himself. The reason was clear, there was a black hole, there were commitments made by the former government and there was a need for correction of the 2005 budget. In the given circumstances, in view of the situation as it is, we consider that the budget is good in the SDS Group of Members. That the budget is not development-oriented, as the opposition Members say, is not true, we have proved this by increasing expenditure in this direction and increasing compared to a very poor reality in the past year. The amendments that have not really been adopted, however, I think the main reason is that they have been given in agreement, without question, only in order to reverse the functioning of the Ministry of Defence. If we look at the recapitulation, as I have collected it myself, we see that the most funds in the amendments were required by the Ministry of Defence and we wanted only to impose an additional debt on the country. I think that the balance, as proposed, is true, and I also suggest that we accept it. We in the SDS Group will do this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? I guess not. I conclude the debate and move on to a decision on the rebalancing of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2005 as a whole. Anybody else want to explain their voice? Mr. Mag. Squeak.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u20	On behalf of the Member's Club, I will explain my vote and the voice of my fellow Members. It's a bad balance. It's neither remedial nor developmental, but it's a division of prey, which is even contrary to the Public Finance Act. You've missed the opportunity to at least make it legal. What's this all about? Minister Gaspari has acted in the past, Minister Rob has acted, Minister Maramor has acted even after the elections, only Minister Bajuk has not acted, but has proposed to the government a division of spoils. Of course, he made two key mistakes in this respect. On the income side, which he first inflated by increasing the company's profits from 9 billion to 27 billion by threefold, this was intended not for saving, but for increasing the wages of material costs, not for investments, but for increasing subsidies. Also, almost no substantive amendment was adopted on the expenditure side. We have proposed them in the areas of increasing money for the regional development programme, for education, for active employment policy, for education for hard-to-employed people. You limited money for investments in hospitals and did not give money to support Slovenia to countries with a European perspective. It would have been better if the government had not proposed a rebalancing, for the government to use the fact that we have a better profit in tax than legal persons' income to eliminate the tax on wages paid, which would have directly increased the competitiveness of the economy, and it would have been better for the budget programmes to be implemented. This could prevent the government from falling economic growth that is taking place in the first half of 2005. This would at least be an approximation of the development budget. That's not what you decided. You are now facing the preparation of the 2006 and 2007 budget. We hope that the government will draw up a budget for the next two years more intelligently, especially taking into account the facts that have taken place in the European Union. Otherwise, Slovenia will sink on a successful economy scale.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Mr. Rezman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u22	Thank you very much. I would just like to say very briefly how our DeSUS Group will vote and why. I would like to point out that any special drama does not help with this rebalancing. But it can be seen what more is probably impossible to do now. The budget or the budget balance could also be different. He could have been better, but for some special reason, he's not. This reason is very noticeable and deep cessure in the National Assembly and on each side of this cesura are people being buried, but they are not prepared to cross these borders ever, almost ever, except in three cases since the seventy-seven, as far as they were given. In doing so, I recall some of the thoughts of American sociologist Bloom, who was talking about putting down the Walkmans, they're going to find that they've gone deaf. And that's the way it is with us. It seems that both sides of this cesura are deaf to different proposals. And I hope that this deafness will really stop until at least the time we adopt the budget, and we will be able to support it in a larger number and with greater consensus. But since more than what we now have on the table, this National Assembly has not been able to accept, we will support this in the DeSUS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Kumer, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u24	Thank you for your word. Of course, I will not support this proposal for a budget rebalancing for two simple and simple reasons. One of my colleagues earlier said that all seventy amendments had been tabled without question, without question. Of course, I am responding to the position in this National Assembly that the handling of individual amendments yesterday proved that, without serious consideration, it had read, decided and voted on these amendments. It simply brought into this National Assembly a heavy road voting mechanism and yesterday we witnessed this mechanism when it was used in the vote. I hope that this will break, if not sooner, with the next budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mr. Grimes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u26	Thank you for your word. I will vote in favour of the budget rebalancing with the following justification. Because it's about correcting the state the government has inherited. Why is it like this, let me just illustrate it with a little bit of data? Rental of government aircraft, June, Madrid, Cricket, million 600 thousand; rental of aircraft, Podgorica, Cvikl, 750 thousand; rental of aircraft, Tirana, Cvikl, one million, 150 thousand; rental of aircraft, Belgrade, Cvikl, 650 thousand; rental of aircraft, Sarajevo, Cvikl, 836 thousand; rental of aircraft, Skopje, Cricket, one million and three quarters; rental of aircraft, Sofia, Cricket, one million; rental of aircraft, Brussels, Cricket, one and a half million. Let's add a ticket to Hanoi, a million 600 grand. And we find that in just four months, one person has spent 11 million Slovenian tolars on various paths, whose effect, God knows what it is, can be judged by each person. This is a real situation and this situation has had to be dealt with responsibly by our government after the takeover of power. Today, public finances must also adapt to this. It's not just one person. Of course, we could find an entire list of similar trips. And, you know, where it's not, as they say, no one can take it. So it is about putting ourselves on the real ground now and all of us acting differently together. I am pleased to note that our new government, which uses regular tickets when it no longer rents aircraft for its travels, acts substantially differently from the previous one and acts as it has done with this balance. I will therefore be happy to vote for him.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u28	Thank you very much. It is normal for us to adopt a proposal for a budget rebalancing in New Slovenia. It seems like we haven't talked enough in all these days and all these hours we've spent. However, I would like to say that in New Slovenia, although most of us are not here, that this budget is not development-oriented, only six months after they had the power and when we actually adopted the 2005 budget ourselves, they seem ridiculous. This is not a serious debate, but if we have all these amendments before us as Members and the items from which you suggested that these funds should be withdrawn, then the matter is even more, I could say, tragic. Most amendments were written to withdraw funds from the General Staff of the Slovenian Army. As I said yesterday, if all these amendments were to be supported, then the Minister of Defence could virtually shut down this department because he didn't have the resources, and we have such and such commitments to the NATO Union. To enter NATO, in fact, citizens and citizens have decided to hold a referendum. It is said that no one in this National Assembly has the right to deny this and then to propose a whole series of items to be taken by the General Staff. Otherwise, I agree, my fellow opposition, that more is needed for health care, more is needed for education, more is needed for culture, more is needed for technological development. More is needed in all areas, of course, if we have the resources. However, we need to be aware that we can only cover ourselves with as long a blanket as this blanket is long, we cannot cover ourselves with longer. But if the blanket is short, then you need to get under the blanket so you don't get cold, cut a little bit. And only when we have a better and stronger economy will it, of course, be possible for all these purposes for which you have proposed amendments, and all these amendments would be acceptable if there were opportunities, then of course it will be possible to do so. We will certainly vote in favour of this rebalancing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u29	Thank you very much. However, once again, we are talking about how we are going to vote, explaining our vote. It's a debate, it's a debate, and please, stick to what we say. That's the explanation for the voice. Mr. Horvath, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear ministers, representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I'll support the rebalancing. I think this is the optimal solution to the equation system, which certainly has a larger number of unknowns than the equations themselves. The only constants in this system were, if I may say so, the pre-sale inventory and our coalition commitment to the electorate. We realize some of this in our given options. In particular, I would like to point out the increase in principal, which is to say that we are trying to save the financial undernutrition of medium and small municipalities and small municipalities. For investments, I underline, the budget is earmarked, the budget rebalancing is more than 23% nominal, which is more than 20% real compared to last year's assets. I also assess the balance as some kind of exercise or pre-prepared for the right budget 2006, 2007. As I have already said, I support this budget balance for this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mr. Mogue, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u32	Thank you very much. I will not support this in particular, either, because I have not yet experienced such arrogance in rejecting the amendment we have been given. Let’s say that on one example, you would try to explain. It's a university in Primorska, for example, and it's a great deal of trouble at this university that they have with their spaces. When we were with the committee at the University of Primorska, we decided that the committee supports the preparation of the State Guarantee Act for investments at the University of Primorska. When we discussed this law, no one knew, no spirit, no hearing, and no law. When we adopted a decision on the Committee on Higher Education, Science and Technology, and as a working mother, we spent an additional 600 million on investment in higher education, it was nothing from this initiative. The Minister was committed to getting this money in inter-departmental coordination, but there was nothing out of it. When we put the amendment here, it was a mockery because we took from the item the basic development programs of the defence forces, that's from an item where weapons will be bought for 14 billion 625 thousand dollars to cover. This item has increased from the original budget to the balance sheet and, of course, there has been a decrease in investment in higher education. I think it angers the country well if you go hand in hand security and education. This budget doesn't have it. Education punishes. It's just one case, and that's why I won't support it. We left the University of Primorski naked and barefoot as to how we acted in this case.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u33	Thank you very much. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u34	The 2005 budget was also my budget. And I argue, given the circumstances in which it arose and in which it then began to be implemented, that the budget was quite well set up. It is quite normal, however, like any budget, that this budget has also experienced a rebalancing, as it will have experienced if not in 2006 and certainly in 2007. And the rebalancing procedures have also been exactly the same as I have experienced many times. The amendments are huge, more or less all of them are made of one bag, which has an empty bottom or a torn bottom, and we put it where we want it to be. But that is not the case, so such amendments fall as they have always fallen, given that the government knows that it will have to live with this budget and manage the country. Of course, I will gladly support the rebalancing, and also because this rebalancing has given rise to the moment of truth for this government. Not that we will pay less tickets to chartered planes, but that we will manage the country in accordance with what we have accepted. There'll be no more excuses for a hole. Now it's our scene and our field. That's why I'm happy to support the rebalancing.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr. Pache has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u36	Your Honors are here! On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Unfortunately, we see a different picture than some others in this national assembly. We estimate that the said act, which is before us, is a poor journey to public finances in the future and, of course, in the present, as a poor journey for all other public treasuryes, as for public debt, like all those directly felt by citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. No one in this multi-annual debate, both at the plenary session and at the meeting of the parent working body, has convinced us otherwise. Even earlier, on the basis of the numbers and on the basis of the Minister's speech, we received confirmation of what we have already pointed out at the presentation of the Group's position. This budget, which is ahead of us today, follows only one objective: that is to meet some of the convergence criteria. It does, however, exclude all those objectives which should be met by the Slovenian rebalancing or by the Slovenian budget. This is how we do not see any investment promoter, we do not see a competitive promoter, we do not see a job promoter in our country. Even more, not only do we not see these inducers, those basic instruments in macroeconomics, but yesterday we have even witnessed a decrease in funds on some of the most vulnerable components in our country. On the other hand, it is necessary to make it clear from this point that, according to our assessment, the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, the Ministry of Finance has lost that green thread of public finances management through fiscal policy. According to our assessment, the Ministry of Finance has failed to implement this act, i.e. a rebalance as an administrative act of fiscal policy, one of the macro-economic measures in our country, which is available to the State or Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The fact is, as I mentioned earlier, that tax revenues continue to take on strong over 90% of all income in the context of the rebalancing. At the same time, it should be stressed that both natural and legal persons do not find an incentive which, on the other hand, could also fill the tax revenues mentioned in the future. Therefore, it is our view that it is pointless to adopt an act that will lead public finances to a much worse situation than they already have today. We must be aware, however, that there are public finances, not to say, in a catastrophic but unenviable situation, as a result of the work of the previous government. Therefore, we will not support this act within the framework of the Group of Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr. Saiovic, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues! History is written by the winners, of course also by the rebalancies of the budgets after the elections purely justified and fair also by the winners of the elections. There's nothing to argue with. I will oppose the rebalancing myself, because most of this national council is sufficient to accept it without my vote. Of course, I'm assessing that this rebalancing is arbitrary. Certain matters to political allies and friends had to be settled back. That's normal, and I don't even mind. However, I am disturbed by the fact that the case is already pre-arranged in the light of the 2006 local elections. This is how the rebalancing withdraws certain activities in the field of municipalities, especially in the field of roads and permafrosts, i.e. I think it is intentional, especially on this account, that projects will be revived in 2006 and thus collect political points. By then, life on our roads may be extinguished. But yesterday I was realistic and convinced that most of the amendments proposed by the opposition would be rejected. However, I was deeply disappointed that amendments such as those for the Zagorje kitchen, where the congregation put a great deal of effort into doing so, had a lot of resources and only a small amount of good will had to be accepted in order for such a project to go on in the good congregation, in the good valley. Of course I'm going to go against the balance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr. Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u40	Thank you for your word. I will not support the rebalancing because in its content, it has largely intervened in rural development. I can say that, while the Government has adopted a Regulation on payments for rural development programme measures for the Republic of Slovenia 2426 for 2005, with which it wishes to provide some more resources to those municipalities which were not present until this Regulation was adopted in a restricted area. Although they were included in the Regulation, they forgot that the Annex to the rural development programme which remained in Brussels was unchanged. And, of course, this budget will not be feasible at least in the part relating to the rural development programme. It is another very uncontrolled adoption of the budget rebalancing or the spending of budgetary resources on agriculture, and it is particularly sensitive or sad that this is happening on rural development programmes. In infrastructure, too, we can see that the main loss in railways is due to investments, infrastructure that leads to places that are more remote or that have developmental problems. This rebalancing does not allow for the implementation of the necessary necessary investments in the rail sector, both for the development of the economy and for the introduction of public passenger transport. Finally, the Interrek 3A programme, Slovenia, Croatia, Hungary, is being reduced. The fact is that a huge number of applications have been submitted to the invitation to tender. However, the government is reducing funds on this item, which means that many development programmes in the most sensitive area along the Schengen border will not receive support in the 2005 rebalancing at the southern border. That's why I won't support the balance.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr. Pike has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u42	Thank you for your word. I'll support the balance myself if I'm not entirely satisfied with this rebalancing. But this rebalancing is only necessary, it is necessary because we are going down to the real ground because there are big holes in the budget. And if we're already in the scaffolding of the road and the heavy mechanics. What do we do with a road full of holes? We're dumping it, but we're taking it down. And that's what we did yesterday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr Milan Petek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u44	Thank you, Chairman for your word. I am not voting for this rebalancing myself, although I am justifying my opposition to this rebalancing by not at least attracting what we wanted to achieve in the Liberal Democracy, that is to say to increase funds for technological development, you had no sense and understanding of social problems, nor for the nutrition of students and students, nor for free transport. You have even less taken into account and understood the debate that was extremely broad in the field of roads when you adopted the banal amendment and not all the other important comments. I am particularly disturbed that you did not understand what they wanted to say to you that the parliamentary option is to correct the injustice that is done to regional and local radio stations and TV stations that are entitled to the 3% lost, and in this way we have proposed an appropriate and elegant solution. All of this, because it was said in the debate, gives me the impression that I cannot say that this is the balance of the national assembly, but it is the government's rebalancing. All the debate, or rather, not the debate of the ruling coalition, showed that it was not in fact intended to accept the opposition's legitimate proposals, but rather decided to follow the government's dictatorship. This balance cannot be accepted.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr. Squeakle has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u46	In my own name, let me explain why I won't support the rebalancing. It is a rebalancing of the ruling coalition, it is a poor balance and, of course, it is a reflection of the policy pursued by this coalition, of the economic policy that exhausts the economy, and of the policy that does not make sense to accelerate economic activity. It doesn't give for technological development, it doesn't give for investment, it takes on these items. I regret that this ruling coalition, which runs the home of a confusing economic policy, is effectively using the methods of a special war, is failing to do so within the framework of the European Union. I therefore particularly regret that, contrary to what the Minister for Foreign Affairs wrote to me on 16 June, you have rejected the amendment that would allow Slovenia, together with the European Union's assistance centre, to be a bridge for the next 50 to 70 million Europeans and Europeans on their way to the European Union. This would make economic sense, these are the clear interests of the Republic of Slovenia. Dr Dimitrij Rupel wrote me that in a short time he would propose to provide adequate funds in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. And the same government rejected the amendment to do so. Of course, it is also necessary to travel, and I regret that Mr Coprol is no longer travelling, because, of course, the position of the RS government at the summit last Thursday would be more meaningful, more logical and, above all, more European. I'm not going to support the rebalancing.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr. Yuri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u48	Very short. Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Of course, I won't support the balance either. You must support him in the coalition. Since you have not listened to any of the opposition's major amendments, this speaks of the fact that you have created this balance yourself, you are fully responsible for it. It will be interesting to see the final bill whether your wishes and needs will come true. We'll be waiting for you then, then of course we'll be counting who was right. We've proven that it's an unrealistic balance, that it's also risky. I sincerely wish you a happy path in its realization and I will see you towards the end of the year.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u49	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. The vote is closed. I note that there were 60 Members and Members present at the vote, 40 votes against 19. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 19.]] I note that the 2005 budget balance of the Republic of Slovenia has been adopted. On the basis of Rule 163, paragraph 8, of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that the Council adopt the following proposal for a decision. The National Assembly authorises the Chairman of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, Mr Bojan Starman, MEP. Milana M. Squikla and Member Cyril Testen, in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance and the Legislative and Legislative Service of the Assembly, on the basis of the decisions taken by the assembly, prepare the final text of the 2005 budget rebalancing of the Republic of Slovenia. Anybody want a word? I guess not. I conclude the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the proposed decision. We're voting. There were 54 votes in favour and 47 in favour against 3. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 2. Agenda item - Defence of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Implementation of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2004 and 2005 - urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I give the floor to a government representative for further explanation. Please. Mr. Minister Bajuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members and Members. The Law on the Implementation of the 2004 and 2005 Budget of the Republic of Slovenia was already adopted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia in December 2003, together with both budgets. Since the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has laid down a proposal for a rebalancing of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for this year and has sent it to this esteemed National Assembly and has just adopted it, this law on the implementation of the budget should also be adapted to the changes in the budget provided for by the rebalancing, as there would have been a discrepancy between the two documents. Given the legal nature of the state budget, the implementation of the law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia is a direct condition for the implementation of both the budget and the budget balance. The proposal does not legislate specific principles or fundamental budgetary principles, as these are defined in the Public Finance Act. And this is also followed by this proposal. The basic objective of the law is to legislate solutions that will enable the current and smooth implementation of the adopted budget balance. Thus, the law does not propose a new system solution, but mainly eliminates certain weaknesses and problems that have been demonstrated during the implementation of the existing law and provides for certain measures to be taken in the implementation of the budget by the end of 2005, for example, the ban on the conclusion of financial lease contracts for direct users of national and municipal budgets and the reporting of commitments made under these and other contracts. The budgetary balance measures are also foreseen this year. Unsupervised spending on projects is limited in the coming years, allowing for better preparation of budgets in the coming years. The amount of the debt to which the State may be responsible for the budget shall be determined. In accordance with the Public Sector Wage System Act, a dedicated item is opened in the budget to raise funds to address disproportionates in basic salaries. The amount of eligible consumption per capita is newly determined. On purpose, at the time of the presentation of the budget rebalancing, I did not go into the question of increasing funds for the financial settlement of the municipalities, the so-called principal, so that I could now give it even more weight and emphasis. Glavarina is nominally increased by 10% or 7.3% in 2005, which is obviously very large compared to the data from the past, since since 1999 the principal has never actually increased by more than 2.6% annually. This move by the government and this national assembly shows great obedience and understanding and support for local self-government, especially for smaller municipalities. We propose that the law, which is dealt with in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly under the urgency procedure, be adopted as the envisaged solutions to enable the budget to be implemented effectively are also included. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u51	Thank you very much. The draft law was also regarded by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. I ask the representative of the Committee to present the report of the Committee. Mr. Kovacich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u52	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues, colleagues, Mr. Minister, coworkers! At its 5th meeting, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on Finance and Monetary Policy considered a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the implementation of the budget for 2004 and 2005, submitted to the National Assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. In addition to the text submitted, the Committee received and then examined the following material. Opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, letter of the Court of Auditors, opinion of the Committee of the State Economic Council, opinion of the Committee on Budgetary Control, comments of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, observations of the Court of Auditors of Slovenia, review of the amendments tabled by qualified applicants and working material proposed for amendments to the Committee. It follows from the explanation of the legislative proposal that, in the context of a proposal for this year's budget rebalancing, it is necessary to adapt the basic law to the proposed budgetary changes, since the text in question constitutes a direct condition for the implementation of both the budget and its balance. On the basis of the above, the necessary amendments contain solutions directly linked to the way in which spending rights are guaranteed in the tabled balance while at the same time providing for a reduction in budgetary expenditure and a rational use of budgetary resources or funding of budgetary expenditure. The main emphasis of the legal solutions which interfere with or build on the existing situation is: separate recording of the revenues of the Slovenian compensation company, the measures envisaged to balance the budget in 2005, the distribution of capital investment revenues or not foreseen as revenue under this Title. With a view to harmonising the relationship between the individual paying groups and the envisaged gradual application, the dedicated items transferred to the following year shall be opened pending the final elimination of the public sector imbalances in the State budget, the budgets of the local communities and the Institute for Health Insurance of the Republic of Slovenia. It is also possible for the Government to decide on the reallocation of spending rights between sub-programmes, within the framework of the main programme, among the proposers of the financial plans, with a total increase or reduction in each sub-programme not exceeding 15% of the volume of the sub-programme in the adopted budget. Restricting and receiving records of both state and municipal budgets. The amount of the debt to which the State may be in charge of the budget shall also be re-defined. The possibility of transferring the Minister's powers to another person with his written mandate in the context of the execution of the transactions established by the budget financing programme, which he adopts on a proposal from the Minister of Finance of the Government, is also proposed. The amount of eligible consumption per capita for 2005 is new. There is also a systemic change in the collection and use of funds to address wage imbalances, which will be implemented only from a specific item open to all budgetary users of the State budget at the Ministry of Public Administration, in line with the proposal for a law on amending and supplementing the law on the public sector wage system. A representative of the National Committee on Budgetary Control and Other Public Finance, Mr Milan Cvikl, who is also a member of the Committee on Finance, also took part in the debate and presented the opinion of this Commission. Well, on the basis of the discussion in the context of the discussion under the individual articles, the members of the Committee paid particular attention to Articles 7 and 14 of the legislative proposal. The main points, however, were in the following context. As regards the increase in the amount of eligible consumption and the proposed introduction of restrictions, borrowing or financial leases, the debater was interested in the actual implementation of the envisaged procedure from the point of view of the local communities. With regard to the indebtedness of local communities, the issue of financial leases or the granting of guarantees in the case of commercial leases was highlighted in particular. When limiting the potential indebtedness of municipalities by using financial leases or by borrowing loans, the opinion was expressed that they did not constitute long-term solutions. It was also stated that the financial compensation in a certain respect does not, at the same time, constitute greater financial autonomy of the municipalities. At the same time, the issue of the simultaneous extension of tasks on the basis of legal obligations was raised. Discussions were also made on the preparation of the relevant regulation, the basis and procedures by which, pursuant to Article 21 of the Law on the implementation of the budget, the obligations under the responsibility of the municipalities are applied and monitored. On the basis of this debate, the proposed law was supported by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy by adopting or supporting two or five or six amendments, if I am not mistaken, to Article 1, Article 7, Article 9, Article 10, Article 14, and Article 16, with more or less following comments or opinions on the position of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u53	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Josip Bajc, Slovenian People's Party, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u54	Mr Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Minister with co-workers and co-workers! Members of the Slovenian People's Party will adopt the law on the implementation of the budget as adopted on the home labour body. The current law on the implementation of the budget was adopted in 2003 for the implementation of the budget 2004/2005. However, since we just a few minutes ago, after several evening and night sessions of both the home work bodies and the plenary session, we have adopted a budget rebalance, and it is necessary that the law also be adopted to implement this budget. Therefore, the Members of the Slovenian People's Party will adopt this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mr Sašo Pece, Slovenian National Party, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u56	Your Honors are here! I do not believe in the unconditional binding of the budget, the rebalancing and the law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, because if there was a unconditional link between those acts, then we would never have met with a rebalancing. The fact is that the law on the implementation of the budget tells us how the budget is implemented in order to index zero or one hundred everywhere. But it is precisely because governments are not used or unable to implement budgets that there are imbalances. In the previous mandate, we have heard many times that the conditions are, in view of the reasons for the rebalancing, therefore, a departure from the planned, so that the internal and external budget can be made. It was very popular to say that these are, in particular, three external instruments that have a negative impact on inflation and similar things, and that this is usually the reason for the budget. However, in the previous item, both at the plenary session and at the meeting of the parent working body, we have learned that the rebalancing was due solely to internal change in power, to some different visions which, according to my assessment or assessment of the Slovenian National Party, were reflected separately, i.e. in the words of the Finance Minister and Prime Minister. One talked about the recovery budget, the other called this same budget a budget of progress and prosperity in our country. So talking about a connection and this unconditional connection, if we've accepted one, we need another, at least in my opinion, extremely incorrect. As far as the law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia is concerned, of course, I regret that the National Assembly devotes so little time, in my opinion, to an extremely important act. And before he touched on the changes, he would touch on a basic act that he did not have before, and not this government, unfortunately, that government does not, or does not, fully comply with. A month and a few days ago, the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group highlighted the sale of state property within the framework of the Initiative and the question and requested a broad discussion on the insufficient response of both Minister of Finance, Mr Bajuk, as Prime Minister of Janša on privatisation, to the most powerful, capital-based, domestic-owned banks. Given that the law on the implementation of the budget, despite the clear provisions in Article 80(c) to (d), clearly speaks of the agreement of the National Assembly on the sale of State property, namely the sale of state, financial and real property, the National Assembly in this mandate did not wish to meet with the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, of course, the implementation of the law on the implementation of the budget in the work I am currently talking about, namely, the sale of state property, namely the banks of the New Bank of Maribor. According to our assessment of the total and intentional non-implementation of the 80.th Article, which speaks of the establishment of an annual programme for the sale of financial and real property, that it should not be introduced to the national assembly, to the professional public or to all those interested in the circulation of two million, given that the rehabilitation of banks took place through the issuance of the bonds of the Republic of Slovenia and thus owed over two million Slovenians in the form of public debt, it seems to me personally to be extremely unheard of and extremely insulting by Mr Bajuk to all citizens and citizens. Because the fact is that in the period 1996-1998, which cost over 2,200 million German brands at the time, the debt of each and every one of us has increased most, but of course this government of the Republic of Slovenia does not want, even this time, to take into account and sell the bank very low or very low and very imprudent. While the minister in the various public tribunals, despite the law on budget implementation, is talking about transparency, he does not wish to show this transparency at the plenary session of the National Assembly. Despite the fact that Article 80d clearly states what individual sales programmes include, that is, the objectives, objectives, means, the legal basis, the description of the subject, in spite of the big words about transparency, Mr Baiuk does not wish to elaborate in this national assembly. But of course, it will not only be Mr. Bajuk's fault for not enforcing the law on budget implementation, the majority, the left share [[...]] [[End warning sign]] hold this national assembly which has not accepted the initiative of the Slovenian National Party for an extended debate. [[...]] With this initiative I will insist, and I hope that at least then you will approach transparent sales, of course, with the agreement of the Minister, whom I sincerely hope will happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr. Willie Rezman, DeSUS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Well, those of us who have read exactly the titles of both laws, which are now referred to, know that by definition they are related. This is a budget rebalancing and a law that speaks about the implementation of this same budget balance and cannot therefore be separated by content. Secondly, whether we agree that the solutions proposed in the law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia are such that we can support them. In the DeSUS Group, we consider that they are consistent enough to make sense, logical enough and that we can support them. Although we have thought for ourselves at least two solutions, whether they are the best or not, one is already fixed. I am referring to what has been said about the possibility of selling property of up to 1.5 million without a sales plan, which would otherwise have enabled the Public Finance Act, like this law, to be followed by an appropriate regulation. As this opportunity has not been seized by the government, it is right that this amendment has been amended, and we support this amended amendment too. Another problem that has been leading these amendments all the time is the issue of the congregations. Even today there has been some talk about this and I would like to say in just a few words what this is really about. We are pleased with all that has been done in behalf of the congregations, especially the one for financial compensation, and that has not been enough. But it's undeniable that we've done these things in the end. The thing is, if I paraphrase, it looks like we're up to our ankles in the swamp and chasing mosquitoes. So we've gone into the consequences, not the reasons why municipalities hire loans, financial leasings and use other financial instruments to recover when they make different investments. It will be undeniable that what has been done for the congregations in recent years will be slowly eliminated. It's just one step now. We need to tackle the sectoral regulation on a number of content that have imposed additional obligations on the municipalities. And we must work to eliminate the cutting of resources for the financing of municipalities, which was also prominently present in the previous term. Now, it is not necessary to repeat all the discussions from the parental committee, but at least those who lead the congregations who know how things are going in the congregations may agree that there are also these problems, that is, swamps, wetlands, wetlands need to be pursued so that mosquitoes do not continue to haunt us. Glavarina is one of the ratings that has now been favoured by the municipalities, but by increasing the appropriate consumption, it carries in it another danger, one of its contradictions, in fact, an additional and even greater dependence on the state budget, because more than financial compensation, this dependence is greater. We will have to work to have such municipalities that will be able to finance all those tasks they have to carry out, and therefore we will need an approach to a more complex solution to such a problem. The sources of new ones, so we will have to provide for the municipalities, then no more embarrassment, then there will be no need to put on the mouth so that someone does not rush too quickly into re- and over-indebtedness. Otherwise, in the DeSUS Group, we will support both the amendments and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u59	Thank you. Mr. Boyan Starman has the floor. Please, Mr. Kovacich, will you?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u60	Thank you so much for saying that. The fact is that we are dealing with two laws that are directly related. On the one hand, we have a budget and on the other hand we have a law on the implementation of the budget. Both marriages, as it is said, are linked, are not without each other and, of course, must be coordinated. Given that the National Assembly has recently adopted the 2005 budget rebalancing, it is, of course, necessary to follow this also in the field of the law on the implementation of the budget, and this law must be in line with this budget, which represents the rebalancing. The proposed law removes any non-compliance that would otherwise have occurred, and in the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we consider the proposed law to be substantive in ensuring the comprehensive, effective and smooth implementation of this budget, which we have corrected today with a balance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mr Milan Friday, LDS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u62	The presidents, the minister, the co-workers and a number of Members. In the Liberal Democracy Club, we are aware that amendments to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2004 and 2005 are an integral part of the 2005 budget balance. Since the National Assembly in the preceding paragraph confirmed this, this law should also be adopted. However, it does not matter what law on the implementation of the budget the government has proposed and what law we will adopt today. As President of the National Committee on Budgetary Control and Other Public Finance, Mr Minister of Finance has always dealt with the provisions of this law in a very critical way in the previous reference. We are therefore surprised that now, as Minister of Finance, he is conceptually following what he has been criticising before a bad year ago, and these are too many powers the government has under this law. The same is true for the former head of the opposition, and now the Prime Minister, who has often claimed that we have non-transparent public finances, has now sent a conceptually identical law to the National Assembly. We wonder what's causing it. Whether they have simply been telling the truth in the past or unable to fulfil pre-election promises about, in their view, the need for more transparent finances. With some of the amendments to the law adopted on the home labour body, some have laid down the laws slightly corrected, but there is still an opinion by us, as the opposition, that the government, six months before the end of the implementation of the budget, after a large shift in the balance, has left itself with very large possibilities for reallocation just in case. We agree, however, that it is appropriate to provide for Article 15 of the draft law, which provides that the Government will report to the National Assembly on the implementation of the invoice in the first half of 2005 only, and not the end of July, as provided for in Article 63 of the Act. Only in June does the adoption of the budget balance justify such a change. The amendment of the law does not propose new, better solutions in the implementation of the budget, but instead introduces levers that only make it difficult to finance the direct budgetary users of the state and municipal budgets. It therefore prohibits the conclusion of new lease contracts for the period until the end of the year and at the same time restricts the rental. The government hereby suspends a financial lease that is not risky for the tenants and is a much more appropriate way of financing than a commercial lease. It is true that the 11th article of this marriage novel increases the principality, and it may be the government of the mild - tempered thirsty who pleases the smaller congregations. It does not, however, solve the objective problem of all municipalities, especially those self-financing municipalities, and these are mainly larger municipalities that plan and need funds for greater investment, and they also have a lot of their own assets. The data collected so far on borrowing through leasing contracts, which were transmitted by representatives of the Ministry of Finance and Monetary Policy at the meeting of the Finance and Monetary Committee, or by Minister Bajuk himself, show that the direct users of the budget, in particular the municipalities, have behaved very responsibly and have been very selective in the recruitment of these resources. This shows that in these five arrangements, at a manageable amount of 7.3 billion, users at the state level owed a debt of 25.2 billion. After so many years of independence, the integration into the European Union and the parallel indisputable development of the Slovenian financial system, comparable to world systems, is increasingly making use of new, different types of financial instruments, especially if they are more favourable to the user than they have been to the classical form of debt. And this is also proved by those who have used these forms so far. This is what all European countries do, and this is what the European Commission does. By the way, all facilities in Brussels, Luxembourg, in which officials and the Commission operate, are acquired in this way. In the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club, we would like to draw attention to the government's strange, unbalanced policy, which eliminates the possibility of borrowing through leasing leases, while at the same time investing in the procedure the law amending and supplementing the law on the financing of municipalities, which increases the permitted rate of borrowing of municipal or municipal budgets, in a well-known, conventional way. The government therefore abolishes the right to leasing on the one hand and, on the other hand, allows the possibility of increasing the debt. It shows its inconsistence. The Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia expects that in the debate following these introductory performances, it will only demonstrate the validity of our discussions so far and that the National Assembly will accept our only amendment tabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Horvath has the floor. Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u64	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister - who is not here at the moment, but here are his colleagues - colleagues and colleagues! It is not disputed for us Members and Members of the Social Democrats' Group that it is necessary to adopt a law on the implementation of the budget for the smooth implementation of the rebalanced budget and that this law must ensure consistency between the rebalance just adopted and the law. In doing so, we are asked two questions and I would like to address these two questions to the Minister. First time. They refer to the balance or consistency of the adopted balance and its implementation and the compliance of the law. Firstly, we see that a large part of the funds in the rebalancing are earmarked for very important purposes from European Union resources, which is nice and right. However, given that we have experience and even when we know how to make better use of European funds, we are asking whether the proposal for a law takes into account the possibility or risk of less use of European funds. And the second question, which concerns what has just happened in Brussels, namely the collapse of negotiations on the next financial perspective, whether the proposal for a law takes into account the likely negative consequences of the failure of negotiations on the budget of Slovenia. The fact is that Articles 7 and 8 of this Act provide that certain obligations may be passed on to the following years and, some of them, will already fall into the period of the new financial perspective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mr Martin Mikolič, New Slovenia, also has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u66	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. It is clear to us in the New Slovenia Group that, at the same time as the proposed budget rebalancing for this year, it is also necessary to consider amendments to the 2004 and 2005 law on the implementation of the budget. The substantive solutions between the law and the rebalancing are closely linked and therefore the law on the implementation of the budget allows the implementation and enforcement of the budget, thus ensuring the implementation of the adopted budget rebalancing. Some essential additions and amendments are included in the draft law on the implementation of the budget, most of which have already been listed, only to mention a few more: that incomes and expenditure are recorded in the balance sheet under the law on the issue of the obligation to pay damages for confiscated property due to the abolition of the penalty for confiscation of property and revenue under the law on compensation for victims of war and post-war violence. These revenues are received from the Slovenian compensation company. This revenue is intended on the expenditure side to pay interest on the liabilities issued until the imbalance between individual payment groups in the public sector is definitively eliminated and dedicated items are therefore opened for this purpose in the national budget of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposed amendments also redefine the extent to which a sub-programme may be decided by the Government on redistribution. It will no longer be possible to conclude a financial lease agreement. Direct users of the State budget will be able to enter into commercial lease contracts where, in accordance with Slovenian accounting standards, the lessee continues to rent a given asset as its own, tangible fixed assets whose contractual value is limited. The proposed amendment also redefines the amount of the debt to which the budget may be owed or owed by the State. The amount of appropriate consumption is also newly determined - as we know, the principal has increased by 10% in relation to the previous year and this has also been introduced into the proposed amendment of the law. I must mention that in the New Slovenia Group, the Christian-Human Party will support the proposed amendments and amendments, both the law and the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u67	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a second reading, to a debate on individual amendments and articles of the amended bill. Two amendments were tabled. And we will discuss and vote on each amendment. I shall put to the debate Article 7 and the amendment Article 7(1). In the first paragraph, I will read, or have it on the bench, please read: the conclusion of financial lease contracts is not allowed for direct users of the state and municipal budgets. This was given by the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Anybody want a word? Mr. Squeakle. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u68	We want to further explain this amendment. By this amendment, we would like to allow, in fact, that the implementation of the 2005 State budget also takes place in the second half of 2005, what was done in the period from 1 January 2004 to 21 June 2005. In view of the fact that direct budgetary users can use all financial mechanisms in the implementation of investments. What do we mean? It is unacceptable that, after a law on the implementation of the budget was adopted at the end of 2003, which clearly defined the possibilities for leasing to expire now half a year before the end of the 2005 budget. In the Liberal Democracy, we estimate that the use of modern financial instruments, including leasing, is quite common anywhere in budgetary spending. Of course, both for direct budgetary users and for municipalities in this regard, it is necessary to have adequate records and to report on the basis of these records where the methodology requires full reporting of obligations. I think it would be good for the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to present to the National Assembly the reasons leading to the end of the regime, which was in force for a year and a half. That is why we think it would be good for the members of the National Assembly to hold some substantive debate on this and ask ourselves what we are actually doing if you do not support the amendment presented here. You will simply prevent all those who, following the publication of the law, would continue to enter into financial lease agreements, the possibility of using this instrument, which is of course not logical. On the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, when we discussed this, I explained that it is in most European countries, and if you want, in the European Parliament itself, the entire building in the financial lease. In a financial lease paid in Brussels by the Belgian Government to the companies that went into this investment and in Strasbourg, the French Government. Therefore, do not use, hold and not allow in the second half of 2005 due to certain macroeconomic or measures related to the fact that the Ministry of Finance does not have records of this, abolishing the possibility of entering into financial lease contracts, which, in our view, is too harsh an act which will not have a positive impact on the implementation of the budget, both in the direct users of the State budget and only in the municipalities. It is likely necessary to write a sub-legislative act which will give the Minister of Finance, in particular when it comes to direct users of municipal budgets, information on the extent of these financial leases. Therefore, the State budget is already directly responsible for the ministers of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and there is no reason why, of course, the law on amending and supplementing the law on the implementation of the budget should, of course, put an end to this. I think there's nothing wrong with time.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u69	I must warn you, time was not predetermined. So it's not a real, real picture.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u70	Urgent meeting, third paragraph of Article 67 and so on. Isn't it? Okay. Thank you very much. So don't mind if it's red in there. Thank you. We assess, Members and Members, that if you do not accept this amendment, you will do great harm. First in his congregations. First in its municipalities and then for a number of investments carried out under the state budget. That the previous case of the European Parliament is not so foreign to Slovenia, let me say that the representatives of the Ministry of Finance are sitting in the building, in Beethoven 11, which was purchased with a financial lease. With a financial lease out there in the middle of the '90s, and I think she paid up two years ago. This is not an unusual practice, especially at a time when competition for such services at Slovenian prices or, if you want, interest rates or opportunities costs are falling. I would expect the new Ministry of Public Administration, which is run by someone known, Dr. Virant, to make a bold move in this regard. And discussed with the Ministry of Finance how, on the basis of the possibilities that the law allows - the Public Finance Act empowers the Minister to prescribe an economic classification, and Minister Gaspari has done so and has written down leases during the economic classification - that, of course, the Minister of Public Administration will do so and thus, in some medium-term plan for the placement of the Slovenian State Administration either in Ljubljana or in Maribor, or in Slovenian places, provide a completely normal way of financing through financial lease contracts. That would be logical, this is perfectly normal in the market economy. Now I have a feeling that the government, because it was afraid to gather information on how many of these financial leases are in the municipalities, how many financial leases are at the level of the state budget, is actually giving some kind of a dictatorship of law, which is extremely hard. This is how I propose to Members and Members that you, of course, reconsider this and that the amendment we have proposed be broken. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Bajuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u72	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This issue has also been raised, not only on the Commission, at a meeting of the Committee on Budgetary Control and other public finances, but also on the home working body. I think it is necessary for me to explain here again to the entire national assembly all the reasons why the government has decided that this proposal has also been submitted to this national assembly. It is pointless to use the words of fear or, what is inherently - what is not appropriate, no one has said, nor is it the position of the government or of that minister, that something is wrong or essential with the so-called financial leasing. But we need to understand what this is really about. The key problem facing us today in Slovenia in the area of public finances is how we will meet all the conditions of the convergence programme and this commitment we have adopted. This means that we must have a very clear position and control over public consumption and, of course, a deficit, not according to some of our domestic methodologies or a domestic understanding of what is appropriate or not. We need to stick to the rules of the game that are already written and this is the so-called ESA-95 methodology. After ESA-95, this is what the European Commission is looking at and the European Central Bank is looking at, not just our budget, they're looking at the whole image of public finances, so to speak, at the same time. What we do have is that the budget, on the one hand, and the health insurance, on the other hand, and the local self-government on the other, is a way of doing things, which does not correspond to what is really important; and what is really important is the overall situation of public finances. What does this ESA-95 require of us? That we have to write things through this methodology, and this suggests that as far as so-called leasings are concerned, there is a difference. On the one hand, it is called operational leasing and on the other hand financial leasing. However, financial leasing differs from operational leases in that it is actually a contracting entity, that is, the borrower takes ownership at the end of the period, not at the beginning. In a financial leasing, when, for example, the municipality signs a contract for 10 or 15 years, it shall be counted as a public consumption of the whole in the year that this contract was signed. That's what you say when you make that decision, it increases public spending. At this point, when we really don't know how many of these contracts have actually been concluded at the level of local self-government. Since the Ministry of Finance does not have these definitive data, we have decided to suspend this in 2005. Why? As we would sign contracts that would increase our public spending in an uncontrolled way, and in fact also threaten to implement what is our common goal, and this is taking over the euro 1.1.2007. That's the reason. However, the difference is that if you look at the so-called operational leasing, when the owner becomes the owner, that is to say, the contracting entity becomes the owner at the end, but only considered as public consumption, that part of the payment consumption in the year in which we are. That's it. That's the difference. And there is no need to start any philosophy here, it is not a question of whether it is legitimate or not, nor is it proposed to stop those leasings, contracts that are already under way, but not to allow for 2005 which remains an additional debt through this instrument this year. This is the only reason and this is also a responsible move by the government to maintain minimum control over all public spending and can also ensure what happens to our deficit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Bevk. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u74	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! The first version of this Act did not allow for the conclusion of contracts on financial leases, whose tendering procedures had already begun before the entry into force of this Act. The Financial Committee has adopted such an amendment and will now be allowed to do so. Of course, I don't know why we should wait for this marriage solution, because the previous government has taken a decision to launch fourteen investments in secondary education. Let me read them: Kočevje Gymnasium, Šentvid Gymnasium in Ljubljana, Velenje School of Economics, Murska Sobota Secondary School, Koper Technical School, Idrija Gymnasium, Kranj High School of Economics, Nova Gorica School of Sports, Moste Gymnasium, Lendava Secondary Secondary School, Kočevje Sports Hall, Kočevje High School, Geodetic and Economic School Ljubljana and II. Maribor High School. It is said that 14 important investments in secondary education and, as far as I have information, the tenders were published, the offers were open, the commissions discussed, concluded, assessed these offers. More than that, it has not happened since there is no agreement between the Ministry of Finance and School, how to proceed with these projects. I would therefore ask the Minister, Dr Bayuk, who said that only those investments whose contracts have already been signed could continue. Most of these 14 investments have not yet been signed in the tendering phase. The Minister said that contracts that have already been signed could continue. Or was it a lapsus, for the law says that those contracts and investments that are in the tendering phase may continue. In addition, I believe that the Minister could say more precisely how to use an operational leasing which, in your opinion, is more favourable than a financial leasing and might be a solution for investments in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Any other Members? Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u76	Thank you very much. The answer to the honourable Member Bevk was a lapsus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u77	Mr. Milan Petek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u78	Thank you, Chairman. I am starting with that part of the response that Mr Minister has given and has expressed his fear that there will be uncontrolled recruitment of these arrangements or the conclusion of these arrangements, with which the country will not have a review of this. I am surprised by this statement because Mr Minister knows best that it can be managed by appropriate instruments. Therefore, it is only necessary to adopt a regulation specifying the methodology for monitoring further prior approval or conclusion of these commitments and thus ensuring that this control of these investments is ensured. If the Ministry can't or can't do this, I don't think it's a decent ministry, but I believe it's another reason. I don't think those who have prepared such a provision of this law are aware of what you're doing in the space where they've been counting on all these funds. Mr. Bevk gave them some credit. So you interrupt one process of very far-reaching investments, which have also been based on these sources that we are now talking about, and it seems to me that you are hurting the Ministry or not hurting us here, you are hurting those who expect these investments to have normal dynamics and that they will eventually reach schools, buildings, cultural facilities that have been in the process since the previous law was established. And this seems to me to be the greatest damage and the greatest harm to this misunderstanding of this well-intentioned desire of the LDS to change this dictatorship of this article. If I illustrate this with a Maribor case, when we finally this year, after not knowing how many years, we place such necessary construction of the puppet theatre in Maribor, when we allocate these basic funds in the budget for this project, when we already have a very well-arranged form of cooperation of the Ministry of Culture, you prevent us from starting this process this year. This affects you in a way when you look from your cabinets at this situation, i.e. those users who expect to come to the newly built new puppet theatre, which is urgently needed in Maribor and requires the speedy realization. As a result of this proposal to amend this part of the law, we wanted Members who come from some environments that you are aware of and know what problems these environments have and these are, I must say, especially the larger environments that are able to conclude these arrangements - therefore, you are affected by some dynamics in the realisation of these investments precisely the most necessary environment. This is why one more appeal, if you want, is to consider and support this well-intentioned proposal. Speaking of which, we can't even the business and the financial and operational leasing. We believe that financial leasing is much better, so it does not create any dilemma when there is a problem of asset transfer, while just operating leasing is in a situation where something happens to a leaser, in fact, there is no property, and then it may be harmful to those who make such arrangements, of course, greater than in the financial leasing. For this reason, we believe that it is once again the basis for our amendment to be attached. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Dr. Gaber has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u80	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. I'll back this up myself. I'll try to explain why I think it would be wise to support him together. First of all, this proposal from the Ministry of Finance or the governments here clearly shows that they want to remove the apparent formal basis for leasings undertaken by the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport in the previous mandate. I will leave aside the fact that before that they tried to mutilate those who did so, arguing that there was no formal basis for this to happen. What we are discussing today is a matter of priority. I can accept Mr Bayuk's philosophy, which here explains that the problem of common obtusion is the responsibility of this country. That's probably true, but yesterday it was said that we're not doing anything about the priority of this rebalancing. This is a clear example of changing priorities. If the whole picture has been on the table so far in debt, including the possibility of leasing in this way, and this has had to be compared and it has to be decided at any time whether this will have priority or how far the priorities on the roads, on education and on culture and elsewhere will go. Now no one changes the arrangements on the roads, no one changes the arrangements for any other consumption, while we put this part, which has made a painful choice in this financial structure of this country, on the sidelines. Of course you will say that you will also allow operational leasing in the future. If the conditions for conclusion are poor, if the level of certainty in this conclusion is poor, then you have decided to put certain areas aside. I am glad that he has overcome reason and that, if I understand it correctly, I think you are implicit before - and this was neither from the opposition nor from the position quite clear - whether you have really stated that those 14 investments, what has started and is in the process will now be done - then I am happy. At least that'll be achieved. The original story was that all of this had to be ended because it was illegal. So, I think it would be good to leave different entities in the same space and decide every time who we give priority to, or else go back to one side track. I also remember the corrupting regime of the government in which I was alone, which prohibited virtually any leasing. I'm not going to tell you how much money was lost for this country with a famous lease, as when it comes to state buildings like, for example, school buildings. And that's what's really going on. At first glance, it looks very nice and very cost-effective, but we are actually pouring money around the world - we have been pouring it for decades, for example, at our foreign offices and renting schools and so on, for the state administration. It looked like it was worth it, but it wasn't.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u82	Thank you very much. I would just like to explain to the honourable Member, Dr Gabr, that there is a difference between borrowing and public spending as such. Slovenia does not currently have debt problems during this period, when we are all trying to meet all the Maastricht criteria. However, it may have major problems if it increases its deficit across certain borders. And that's actually what this is about. The problem is not in debt. We can make a deal. If this National Assembly decides to increase the debt, in terms of the Maastricht criteria, there is still room for up to 60% of the gross domestic product. However, the fact is that if, without any restriction, financial leasing, as it exists, is permitted under the ESA-95 rules and the interpretation of these rules by Eurostat, which we have not obtained a definitive position until April, it is clear that financial leasing means that it is entered as public consumption the full value of this contract in the year when the contract is signed. I hope this is a little clearer now. That's the only reason there's no other reason. You don't have to look for words or use words like fear - these are facts. These are simple facts we have to face. This government, and I think that this national assembly should also not allow public spending to increase without any restriction in 2005, when we also have to meet these Maastricht criteria as regards deficits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u83	Thank you very much. I'll give you my word right away. I'd just like to say something sooner. I had previously announced at the beginning of the meeting that this extraordinary meeting would last until 12:00. However, I suggest that because it is now 12 noon that we finish this point. We have two amendments that we need to discuss and vote on, and that would end this point. If you don't mind. Please, please, Mr. Squeakle, a debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u84	About your proposal. I think it would be right, given the debate that we have hereafter, but at least the ZIPRO law on debt takeover would eventually be concluded, because this is related to the rebalancing. This is my opinion, which is otherwise not harmonised in the parliamentary club, but you will decide for yourself. But we can also do it by stopping and going to the next financial perspective, and I don't know when we'll be back. That's your decision. But it is already this slicing of debates, now that we are discussing substantively on an important issue that would be valid to conclude - in fact, you will decide for yourself. If you support the amendment, you will have a significant impact on one area. But if, of course, the government needs a break and the coalition to coordinate, it is also possible, but the debate on whether or not we will allow leasing in the second half of 2005 is not an easy debate. However, as head of the National Assembly, you have decided that both the harmonisation amendment and the two laws will be made within two hours.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u85	Mr. Squeakle, your comment is in place. Allow me to make this point after the end of this point, as I have suggested, and I will also put this proposal after -- only when more Members are in there -- into the hearing. This point, however, would suggest that we continue and end this point. [[...]] Do you agree? Yeah. Mr. Gaber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u86	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Look, Comrade Bajuk, I have a feeling this is a relatively well-meaning discussion, but then I don't understand. You say yourself, unlimited leasing could jeopardize balance sheets and so on. But why, if unlimited rental would endanger this, and we can probably all agree that it doesn't show up to play with it, then you cross out any possibility of this rental. Take the mechanisms into your hands, because of me, the Ministry of Finance, and let it control where it can go. Then why does everyone have to take it? I don't know, I don't know the articles well enough right now, but I'm assuming that if we accept our amendment, you're interfering with the country's legislation anyway, but within these consumers, which are ministries and so on, anyway. I still insist that we accept our supplement, and you limit and control where this will all go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr. Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u88	I want to discuss what has been said. What the Minister of Finance has said and, of course, I agree with this, it is necessary to take into account ESO 95 in 2005, 2006 even when we have a huge deficit. However, Minister, let me remind you of the second paragraph of Article 40 of the Public Finance Act. This allows you to do just that. You can propose to the government that the government authorize you to obtain the prior consent of the Ministry of Finance to conclude contracts. If you estimate that financial leasings are such a problem that they will have a negative impact on Slovenia's ability to take over the euro, then of course, do you think that they in the European Union are unknown to Slovenian public finances or are not prepared to assume the responsibility that the Ministry of Finance can have to stop taking up commitments or require prior consent? Why am I saying that? You have now reached out to yourself with this decision in ZIPRO in one area, in the fields of education. It may be necessary to stop taking on duties in the Court, in the Slovenian Compensation Society or in Dars or elsewhere, as this also goes to ESA 95. You probably know the material well, the Report on the deficit and debt of the Republic of Slovenia, the Ministry of Finance, and luckily also the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia, published on your website, 3 March 2005, has a date where it is clear that a number of institutions are outside the Ministry of Education that affect this deficit. Among them, out-of-budget public funds, public agencies, direct users of the state budget, etc. Therefore, of course, I think that under the Public Finance Act you could use the measures you have. You have to suggest this to the government. It is true that Dr. Beast will have to attach this to you in some way, and Dr. Zupan, but they have already confirmed that they agree that ZIPRO is being mediated to the National Assembly, which prevents them from performing contracts in the second half of the year if these contracts are not operational leasing. The problem, either operational or financial leasing, is, in my opinion, the problem of what is available on the market. And you prescribe and perhaps even prepare some, called "lines", from anywhere that will provide operational leasings. Why am I saying that? As Minister of Finance, you are also a member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia, and you know that Banka Slovenije has reservations rules with operating leasings, which is different in nature as you state, so there are quite a few conflicts. You have decided to use the most difficult tool, to cut off the Ministry of Education and some more - I would not like to talk here about municipalities - but a lot of municipal and other businesses are doing this. Many, if you want, first aid cars for which they are obliged to provide funds from the municipality are purchased for financial leasing, etc. Thus, this is not as small a problem as it seems when the municipalities' finance officials warn you that this provision of ZIPRA from now on prohibits the hiring of financial leasings. It is not the case that the coalition has therefore proposed that this should apply only to tenders from the entry into force of the law. What does that mean? This means that today, in all Slovene municipalities and elsewhere, they are preparing public calls for publication. We'd be irrational if we didn't. Mr Minister, I think that your agreement with the amendment and the introduction of the measures that you have to take in the Public Finance Act would solve the problem. Then it will probably be necessary in the 2006-2007 budget when you deal with what will be the deficit and then you will have quite a few problems, because there will be no 27 billion single gains from profits, because there will be no 4.8 billion profits from the SRD, because you will not be able to draw 9 billion from the profits from energy companies, 5 billion from Telekom, these resources will not, you will have to get very deep into the budget programmes and properly cut them. Therefore, we believe that the amendment we are proposing makes sense for the continuation of the programmes as set out in 2003. They are still formally included in the budget memorandum. I don't know, my colleagues will say this from the Ministry of Finance, whether they're still involved in the development agenda plan. This is a special question that is here. I think they are, even though they may not work out. I believe that if the Minister of Finance uses the measures he has, he can manage the situation. Good will is required and the skill of the entire ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mr. Mikolitch, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u90	Thank you very much. I am not an economist or a financier, but I very well understood the minister when he explained why a concrete proposal or amendment of the opposition was not put in place. In fact, why financial leasing is not, but operational or business leasing. This is a matter, at least that's how I understand the technique when this burden is actually shown in the budget. Mr. Squeakle, now you're laughing, but I understand it that way, and so did the minister. And given the fact that the euro has been taken over in 2007, this is what the existing government is doing or so proposing. I think it's the right thing to do, so I certainly will not support your amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u91	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 7. We're voting. We'll vote next time. I note that there were 48 votes in favour of Members and Members, 13 against 35. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 35.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. The second amendment to the debate is the amendment to Article 14 [[You got it on the bench.]] . It was submitted by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, the New Slovenia Group, the Slovenian People's Party's Group and the Democratic Party of Pensioners' Group of Slovenia. Who wants a word? Since no one wants a word, I conclude the debate. We're moving on to a decision on the amendment. We're voting. The 48 Members and Members present voted 42 against 2. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the proposed amendment to Article 14 has been adopted. I am concluding the second reading and moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted the amendment to Article 14 of the amended bill. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table an amendment to this article? [[No, no, ……]] I find that no amendments were tabled in the third reading. On the basis of paragraph 5 of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the legislature and the Government have not informed me that the law on the grounds of the amendments adopted would not be harmonised. We're moving on to a decision on the law. We're voting. 51 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 6. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against six.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We have previously heard the proposal of Mr Squikel to continue with the agenda of the extraordinary meeting, at point 3, and thus to conclude the extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. Does anyone object? It's okay. Thank you very much. We're moving to 3. Period of the day - This is to the defence of the proposal for a law on the takeover of a long establishment for the chamber and invalidity protection of Slovenia and the institution for health protection of Slovenia, necessary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I give my word to a government representative. Mr. Minister Bajuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members and Members! When we are talking about the wider sector of the country, another very important fact must be mentioned, namely the proposal to take over the debt of the Institute for Health Insurance of the Republic of Slovenia and the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance. In the consolidated balance sheet of the wider sector of the country, this does not mean any change in the extent of indebtedness. However, we believe that the state will be able to service the existing debt more cheaply and thus indirectly reduce the cost of the country and increase transparency in the area of public finances. The fact is that in the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance there should be no debt at all, as the state budget should cover the difference between the revenue and expenditure of the institution in the year it was created. Let me stress that the debt of the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance began to arise in 2000 due to budget problems due to lower transfers than was necessary. The debt of the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia was gradually generated since 2001 to cover all expenditure, as revenue is not sufficient. Among other things, the introduction of value added tax has resulted in increased expenditure on medicines, disease and so on and due to increased salaries for doctors and so on. Therefore, the Government has decided to adopt a law on the takeover of the debt of the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance and the Institute of Health Insurance of the Republic of Slovenia by the State Budget. The government is thus following the origins of the convergence programme forwarded by the government to the European Commission in May 2004 and the complementary convergence programme sent to this same address in January 2004. The origins of the Convergence Programme provide that both social security funds should be included in the State budget without deficits accumulated in previous years. Taking over the debt of both social funds secured by the State budget will increase the debt situation of the Central State, this being the true budget itself, while both funds will no longer show debt, so that the debt situation at the level of the wider sector of the country will not change due to debt collection. Debt servicing of both funds will take over the state budget, but the cost of servicing this debt will be lower than those costs would have been if the debt continued to burden both funds. With a positive impact on the overall public finances of the Republic of Slovenia, we note that taking over the debt of both funds into the state budget in terms of costs will service this debt to a wider country means decommissioning or lower public spending in terms of debt length, the wider country, that is to say, the whole debt, will not increase the situation as a result of taking over. We propose that this National Assembly also adopt this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u93	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. I ask the representative of the Committee, Mr Kovacic, to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u94	Thank you so much for saying that. The Committee of the National Finance and Monetary Policy considered the proposal for a law on the takeover of the debt of the Slovenian Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance and the Slovenian Institute for Health Insurance submitted to the National Assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. In addition to the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, the following additional material was considered: the opinion of the Committee on Budgetary Control and other public finances, the working material with proposals for amendments to the Committee. The text of the proposed law is essentially followed by the starting point of the 2004 complementary convergence programme, which provides that those institutions will be able to operate without deficits accumulated in previous years, thereby establishing a basic objective of the law, introducing solutions for the collection of the debt incurred by the State budget. As far as the financial implications are concerned, I could say that the implementation of this law will, however, increase the debt situation of the Central State, i.e. the budget, while at the same time reducing the debt situation of the Pension and Disability Insurance Institute and the Health Insurance Institute of the Republic of Slovenia. So, with regard to the debt situation at the level of the wider sector, the state is not expected to change. At the same time, as the Minister said a little earlier, servicing the debt will take over the state budget. In order to implement the law in question, funds will be made available in the 2005 budget balance to repay the debt taken by the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance, and funds will be provided in the 2006 budget proposal. As regards the other consequences, however, the State will also have to make an appropriate commitment to repay the debt. The objective of financial optimisation or the introduction of a comprehensive approach to the resolution of public finances of Slovenia will also be pursued by increased transparency. In the debate in which the legislative and legal service was also involved and the opinion of the Committee on Budgetary Control and other public finances was presented, it was found that the law was appropriate and also supported by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Affairs by agreeing or adopting the amendment to Article 1 and the amendment to Article 2, which somehow corrects the proposed Articles 1 and 2. This is a terminological correction in relation to the opinion or the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly of the Republic
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u95	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Sašo Pece, Slovenian National Party, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u96	Your Honors are here! Unfortunately, according to the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, this time it is also a bad, weak law, and above all an imprecise law, which, according to our assessment, despite the provision of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia only on the transfer of funds, will have negative financial effects. But let me point out three important points or points of view. First time. According to our assessment, it may be partly based on the opinion of the legislative and legal service, the law should essentially define the title from which the deficits in the two institutions were created. In view of the lack of explanation of the bill and the high financial burden, it seems extremely unacceptable for the State Assembly to receive such short written law in its hands with such a large financial transfer. Another time. We do not like and cannot support the legal matter, which does not define the type of new obligations created and not the content of individual programmes. What is particularly critical or valuable in the context of the proposed law, however, is the draft law itself in its publication, which was published in the Rapporteur. This is one of the shorter laws presented, which speaks in point 4 of the explanatory note, and point 4 is marked: an assessment of the financial implications of the draft state budget bill and other public funds, and us inside the minister or proposer of the law informs us that the implementation of this law will increase the debt situation of the central state of the budget while reducing the debt situation of the Slovenian pension and disability insurance institution and the Slovenian health insurance institution. Thus, the debt situation at the level of the wider sector of the country will not change, I stress this most important part, so that the debt situation at the broader level of the country will not change. On the other hand, two points later, the drafter himself points out a little more concretely, but unfortunately not among the financial consequences, but in the chapter of the other consequences of the law, where the proposer himself says he plans that the Republic of Slovenia will have to repay the debt taken over in the amount set out in Article 2 of the Act. In the direct context of the financial implications, the Ministry or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia shows that the balance sheet situation at the national level will not change, in point 6, not the financial consequences, but other consequences, but the proposer tells us that the amount referred to in Article 2, which is equally negative or poorly written, will have to be charged. Article 2, for all those who have looked at him, you have seen that he is divided into two parts. The first part of the article speaks of a pension and disability insurance institution, where it says that about 17.100 million Slovenian tolls from the transfer of the pension and disability insurance institution, i.e. a deficit that we do not know why it was created, as if the government had not even wondered why it was created. At worst, however, it does not seem appropriate for the government to get acquainted with this or with the reasons for the national assembly. And he says that there will be, logically, the whole capital and the corresponding interest, but not more than 17.100 million Slovenian tolars. But what's interesting is a very similar diction in the second paragraph, where I ask the minister at 28,650 million interest-free. This is probably consistent with the West in one of the laws. We are talking about maturity or leased loans of 30 June 2005, in the second case we are talking about 31.12.2004. However, regardless of the variety of loans, according to our assessment, if the Government of the Republic of Slovenia were to properly prepare the law, it would be necessary to know the interest account in this case and to show the amount to the National Assembly for both institutions. Whoever examines this article 2 will know what I'm talking about. However, according to my assessment or assessment of the Slovenian National Party, such display of the situation is unacceptable. In order to allow for an empty interest within one date and within the second date, the interest shall be accrued to the principal under the leased loan. In a national party to such a law, mainly due to reasons and mainly due to poor willingness [[...]] [[End warning sign]] We can't take it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mr. Willie Rezman, DeSUS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u98	Let me get started on this. If any of the Members and Members leave this Chamber, the government representatives will soon be more than we are here. And of those few of us left, about one fifth, so only one of the five is here, there was almost no notice of those who would listen to what the minister and those two who represented the parliamentary positions in front of me. It's probably a warning that it's not wise to talk about it, but that it's best to sign up and leave as soon as possible. However, let me tell you what was the point of our parliamentary group supporting this law. This is mainly due to the fact that there are two very important cashiers who do not have their functions solely as regards the public finances of the highly exposed, but also to the very important cashiers who have a decisive impact on the level of social security. And since this is in our interest, we support it. Among other things, because they did not contribute much to the state in which they were, but they were, as it were, thrown into it and thus had nowhere else to avoid, but that burden took over. For these reasons, and to be brief enough to conclude, let me just reiterate that the DeSUS Group will support this.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mrs Polonca Dobrajc, Slovenian Democratic Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u100	Presidents, fellow Members, fellow Members! The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group will adopt and support the proposed law. The government is trying to resolve the debt created by the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance and the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia. You shouldn't be in debt. I am sure that today and here there is no point in discussing the causes and the culprits. However, because it is the pursuit of the origins of the convergence programme and the complementary convergence programme that the Republic of Slovenia or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia sent to the European Commission in May 2004 and, in January of this year, to the European Commission, I think that this is one of the ways to implement the programme. In the opinion of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group, the government has properly prepared a solution to the problem, although two debts should not be. In view of the government's explanation that Slovenia's indebtedness will not increase in a broader way, we will support the bill's proposal in the parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mr. Squeakl, LDS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u102	Mr President, Members and Members of the Government, Mr Minister, who is with us at least in spirit, allow me to communicate the position of the Club of Members on the proposal for a debt-taking law for both registers. First, I say that we understand the Government's efforts to adopt some parallel laws on the proposal for a rebalancing. Among these laws, it is an important systemic issue to tackle both social debt. These debts had to be incurred. They had to be created because there was a need to meet the legal obligations, either due to ongoing indebtedness, liquidity or because the government in the budget we are adopting in this National Assembly, or through additional transfers based on legal powers, did not provide sufficient transfers to both social registers. In this regard, let me tell the Members of Parliament and the Members you have discussed, you are quoting the convergence programme that the government is misleading you. In the Convergence Programme on the takeover of pension debt there is not a single word, but it says on page 20 that the surplus of pension and disability insurance will allow the institution to repay the debt from previous years by 2007. That's what the convergence program says. But it does say that the government will take over the debt for the health insurance office. The fact that the debt would be taken over by the Health Insurance Office was foreseen by the previous government, since this is the only way to assume obligations under the legislation that would eventually become the obligations of the Republic of Slovenia. However, we wanted to do this in a transparent way, by clearly demonstrating in the course of the year that the Republic of Slovenia will have a higher deficit in the state budget due to the taking over of the debt of healthcare. Your government didn't do it. First, she falsified the convergence program. There's nothing in the Convergence Program about taking over the pension debt. However, with regard to the acquisition of a long-term health insurance institution, it is decided to take this action in breach of accounting rules. The law is therefore a matter of government under the thesis that this has already been done in the past, and it has been done in the event of debt, only one case will I give, the Slovenian ironworks, when attempts were made to reduce the interest rate on issued bonds by the Slovenian ironworks, and in this case the government had the guarantee, they tried in the same way to take over the obligations of the health insurance institution and, contrary to the supplementary convergence programme, on the contrary, this does not appear in the convergence programme, nor did they take over the debt of the pension and disability insurance institution. Why is it important to take over the debt of the PIZ in this way? In view of the fact that, prior to the start of the new government, PPIZ had a debt reduction programme in which the capital company would gradually sell state assets and with the revenues from the sale of the debt to the PPIZ, so that, as stated in the Convergence Programme, it would have a surplus of the following three years. This is now being resolved because apparently the government wants to use ownership levers in the KAD to politically potentially act corruptly in the economy. How else to understand the nationalisation of Krka, a shareholder company, carried out last week, when the government expelled representatives of shareholders from the supervisory board, from the outstanding KAD and SOD. Why is that necessary? This is necessary in order for the government to absorb the accumulation from the economy in the budgets of 2005, 2006 and 2007 by increasing the dividends and to use it in public consumption. For these reasons, we will oppose the law in the parliamentary club. We believe that it should be carried out on a regular basis and, above all, more transparently, that it should be carried out by a long-term health insurance institution with regard to the pension and disability insurance institution. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] reads in the supplementary convergence programme. [[...]] Thank you very much. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u103	Thank you very much. The word is Mr. Horvath, Social Democrat.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u104	Thank you for your word. I'll be very brief, so we'd like to talk as much as possible from the bench as possible, so that I don't break the rules, I'm here. The question I had, or a colleague and colleagues from the parliamentary group, and I put it to the Minister of Finance on the Committee on Finance, was answered by the Minister here today, so I will not repeat it. The answer is that this debt transfer will reduce the cost of servicing this debt or these two debts. However, I would ask just one question: Is it possible to assess how the transfer of debt to the country will affect the operation or operation of both cashiers or both? I am asking this question because there was an opinion in the debates on the proposal for a law that this could also have some negative effects mainly on the rationality of business in these cash registers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mr Mikolič, New Slovenia, also has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u106	Thank you very much. We know that the debt on Zpiz was created in 2000 due to budgetary problems, because transfers were lower than necessary. However, we also know that Zpiz was in a position to be in debt on the basis of the law adopted by the National Assembly. The health insurance institution has gradually been in debt since 2001 and revenue has not been sufficient to cover all expenditure. We know, among other things, that due to the introduction of VAT there are increased expenditure on medicines, increased supplements for the sick, as well as significantly increased expenditure on doctors' salaries. Taking over the debt of both social security funds from the State budget will, however, increase the debt situation of the Central State, while both funds will no longer show debt, so that the debt situation at the level of the wider sector of the State will not change due to debt collection. It is also clear that servicing the debt of both funds will take over the state budget by adopting this law. However, the cost of servicing this debt by taking over will be lower than those costs should the debt continue to bear both funds. We can certainly see that taking the debt of both funds into the state budget in terms of the cost of servicing this debt to a wider country will be a burden and, in terms of the level of the debt of the wider country, the situation will not increase as a result of taking over the situation. This is why we will support the law in the New Slovenia Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u107	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a second reading, which is to discuss individual amendments and articles of the amended bill. We have one amendment, namely the amendment to Article 2, tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the New Slovenia Group, the Slovenian People's Party's Group and the Democratic Party of the Pensioners' Group. I am putting to the debate Article 2 and the amendment. Who wants a word? Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u108	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Allow me to make some additional arguments in the debate on this amendment and Article 2 why we believe that the way in which debt is taken over is untransparent.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u109	I'd like to ask that we limit ourselves to Article 2 and the amendment. Please. The amendment is the following: In the first and second paragraphs of Article 2, the words "on 1 July" are replaced by "on the day of the entry into force of the law".
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u110	Yeah, that's right. That's exactly what I'm gonna talk about. For I am talking about the amendment - and hereafter it is explained that this is because the law will not be done until 30 June - in fact, it is unclear how much, under the terms, this debt is determined. [[...]] And I think this is also a key substantive issue. The Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance has its own balance sheet. In his balance sheet, he has debts and some claims. The Republic of Slovenia also has its balance sheet and in this balance sheet it has debts made by the Republic of Slovenia, but it does not yet have debts made by the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance or Health Insurance. And the correct way of knowing the content of the mutual balance sheets and in particular the fact that the pension and disability insurance institution also has claims in its broader balance sheet on the basis of the so-called Property Change Act, namely the claim to the CAD, would be to ensure that the Republic of Slovenia or the National Assembly fulfils the obligations of the pension and disability insurance institution in the balance sheet by reselling state assets. This would be a corrective way to reduce the debt in the balance sheet of the Pension and Disability Insurance Office. Finally, this was confirmed by the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia when it gave its opinion with reservation. Last but not least, I apologize to Members and Members of Parliament, the government is speaking alone. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia itself on page 20 of the Convergence Programme is exactly what the European Union writes. That's exactly what the government wrote to the European Union. But we do have a situation where the government has decided something else. And what is our substantive problem is why the government is explaining in this Article 2 that, for the first time, it will assume the obligations of this institution and assume its obligations for some 30 June. In this regard, allow me to clarify that this article should not be at this level if the Minister of Finance, at the end of last year, had made use of the legal option and, due to higher revenues from the planned state budget, increased the transfer to the pension fund. That's what a minister could do. That's how the government worked at the end of 2003. Since the Minister is empowered to do so both in the law on the implementation of the budget, this is provided for in the law on pensions and disability insurance and because this is also provided for in the law on public finances. However, the Minister did not do this because, as I know it, he did not know it at the time, or he did not react in time that December 31st last year. This would have reduced the debt by 12 billion. That was about the end of last year. The situation that we have now, especially when you propose an amendment that says an unknown number, is in some ways particularly strange. We believe that it would be right for the government to act in the same way as it has done in recent years. In recent years, however, there have been more transfers in the state budget when the rate of contribution decreased. Of course, it would be good for the government to increase transfers from the State budget to the Pension and Disability Insurance Office if it considers it necessary to do so, but the government has made a different decision. She wrote a very short marriage. However, this law had to be written, for the first time, of course, by the Constitution, the adoption of obligations cannot be without laws, and for the second time, of course, in this law is one key provision, a line which in fact states that it does not respect all other rules of transparency of public finances, we will, if you adopt this law in the National Assembly, inadvertently assume the obligations of pension and health allowance. Thus, I believe that both the amendment and Article 2 itself are not very precisely explained, even in the light of the comments of the legislative and legal service. The legislative and legal service said in its opinion and it was known that there was not much discussion about it today, I quote, and we agree that it is not in fact clear, that it is not entirely clear the reasons, nor the objectives, nor the implementation of the proposed law, because despite the fact that the means of providing the resources spoken by the government in the introduction and interpretation in Article 2, how much of these resources are in the proposal and in the 2005 budget rebalance already voted, the implementation of this commitment is not identifiable. The situation that we are in is that this government, with a very short law, is increasing the lack of transparency of public finances, but at the same time, as the government itself says - it is talking about this in its report on the deficit and debt of the country - it is increasing the country's debt. The country's central debt will not be 91 billion and several more, as we have accepted in the budget's newly adopted rebalancing, but will be increased by at least 45 billion in this year's debt takeover if the level of debt of the PSI is not greater than 17.1 billion. However, if the amendment is adopted, it is not possible to say so, because this amount of debt is unknown. Thus, the situation in which we were six months after the takeover of the ministry by Mr Bajuk is such that the deficit of the state budget, according to the ESA 95 methodology, is almost 3%, 2.8% of the report on the deficit and debt of the country of March 2005, Report of the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia and the Ministry of Finance. That is why, at the time of preparation for the 2006 and 2007 budget, we are in very serious straits. I therefore understand that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has drawn up such a short law by means of an urgent procedure that will cover the collection of a debt of EUR 45 billion under the carpet. These are the facts. These are the facts, Mr Minister, and I regret that you have proposed, as the former President of the Commission for Budgetary Control and Other Public Finance, that because of having once taken over the debt of Slovenian Railways, because last year at the end of the year you did not reduce the debt of ZPIZA by increasing transfers on the basis of the powers you have, you are now taking over the country's debt by means of a short law. I'm sorry, but it's obvious from words in pre-election time to acts when you're a minister, but it's a big breakthrough. I am sorry, but the Republic of Slovenia enters 2006 at the central state level with a debt of 2.7% of GDP. We've never had that kind of debt before. Indeed, Minister, this is in line with ESA 95, but also with ESA 95, as you said earlier, we are being measured in Europe. And this, of course, will not be a good trip, not to take over the euro, not to prepare budgets in 2006, 2007. The facts can be seen from the Ministry of Finance’s website. The law is before you. We are, of course, opposed to the amendment to the second article, we are opposed to Article 2 in its entirety. We believe that this law should be withdrawn from the procedure and put into effect through a regular procedure, perhaps in the course of the 2006/07 budget. Everything else is a cover-up under the rug, which, of course, due to the very well-known and public reports already reported, even with the help of the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia, is no longer possible. Thank you, Mr President-in-Office, and I hope that the Minister of Finance will respond.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Mr. Squeakle. For the second time, I would be very happy if you would consider just a little of my opinion - I asked you nicely - and not have a general discussion, but would limit yourself to the amendment. I think it would be fair for all of us sitting in the hall, as well as for others who listen. Thank you. Anyone else please? [[No, no, ……]] Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We're moving on to a decision on the amendment. Anybody want to explain their voice? I guess not. We're voting. The vote is under way. We will repeat the vote. Another time. We're voting. The vote is under way. Following the rules of procedure, we shall vote for the third time in 10 minutes. I hope that if there are more Members in the Chamber, it looks like he won't take it under 40, we will vote at 1:10 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-21-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u112	Your Honors are here! We continue with an extraordinary session, by addressing the complementary proposal of the law on the takeover of the debt institution for the pension and disability insurance of Slovenia and the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia. We are ahead of the third vote on the amendment to Article 2. I stress that we are voting for the third time on the amendment tabled by four parliamentary groups, the Slovenian Democratic Party, New Slovenia, the Slovenian People's Party and the Democratic Party of Pensioners. I think we can go to the vote. We're voting. There are 62 Members present, 48 votes in favour against 2. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. This concludes the second reading, and we are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted the amendment to Article 2 of the amended bill. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table an amendment to this article of the law? [[No, no, ……]] I find that no amendments were tabled in the third reading. On the basis of paragraph 5 of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the legislature and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia have not informed me that the law on the grounds of the amendments adopted would be inconsistent, so we can move on to a decision on the law. Before voting, I ask you, does anyone want to explain their voice? I don't see any interest, so we're moving on to a vote. We're voting. There are 63 members present, 44 votes in favour, 6 votes in favour. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against six.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item and the 9th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. With regard to the continuation of the 7th regular meeting of the National Assembly, I ask Members and Members if it is necessary, or interest, to start in 15 minutes, or should we start immediately? Given that it is the interest of Members and Members to begin immediately, we begin with the continuation of the 7th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Meanwhile, the professional services informed me a little later that I had to interrupt the meeting because of the computer system. The 7th session will begin in ten minutes at 1.25 p.m. Thank you.
