ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u1	Dear Members and honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 9th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, convened pursuant to Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that they are detained and cannot attend today's meeting of the following Members: Mr Anton Anderlič, Mr Roberto Battelli and Mr Sašo Pece. I invited the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Janez Janša, to the 1st item, representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to all items of the agenda and the representative of the Office of the President of the Republic of Slovenia and the representative of the Council of Justice to the 41st item of the agenda. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the agenda of the 9th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The draft agenda is drawn up in accordance with Rule 59 of the Rules of Procedure and received by reference to the meeting on 16 September 2005. The draft agenda will be decided in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Mr. Gantar, do you have a procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u2	That's right, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u3	Here you go. Procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u4	Two minutes and fifteen seconds of speech, my respectable colleague. Mr President, since this is a matter for when the National Assembly discusses its work, it is only right that I should call here, because otherwise I do not think there is a possibility elsewhere. A few days ago, we received a letter from you entitled Automatic microphone shut-off. 15 seconds after the time is up, the machine will automatically turn off the microphone. To this, Mr President, I strongly oppose. The National Assembly is a place of freedom of speech. If we all want to speak clearly, we must accept reasonable limitations, otherwise someone would be speechless. Let us lay down rules and lay down one or more of us, and that is, above all, you, Mr President, that these instructions are implemented and enforced. This is a right that we have all invested in you and your vice presidents together. That's why I don't want to be limited by a computer program or a machine. If anyone were to restrict me, I'd want a man to take my word from me, not a machine. I understand this restriction and the withdrawal of words as a question of reasonable judgment, how many seconds can someone have to finish their speech, their own word, but not the automatic interruption by the device. If that is the case, Mr President, we do not need you or your vice-presidents. We can put a computer in your place that will generate a day order, a list of speakers, time, and even program inappropriate vocabulary that could immediately take away our word. And if I continue in this direction, we can put an infokioska in the lobby, which will take over petitions, applications, referendum initiatives, and he will process them immediately on the face of the city. Not to go any further in this direction, Mr President, my firm conviction as well as many colleagues is that we must not turn the National Assembly into a programmed robot, that we must decide, debate, argue and even self-restraint, ourselves, with you at the helm. That is why, Mr President, I propose and give you the initiative to withdraw this decision and to restrict us meaningfully and reasonably, perhaps only if we are ever fighting, you and your vice-presidents, not a programmed device. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u5	Thank you, Mr. Gantar. This was a pure abuse of the Rules of Procedure, as it is up to the President to ensure order at the meetings. In accordance with the agreement of all the chairmen and of all the leaders of the parliamentary groups who were invited to talk, we have decided not to take the word away as soon as the time is up, but we will allow, excuse me, Mr Gantar, a generous 15-second time to complete the thought. This was the decision of the presidents and I do not think there is a debate on this and it is not possible to propose any other conclusions. But we can talk at the meeting with the leaders of the parliamentary groups, where your parliamentary group is also invited. We're moving on. I have not received any proposals for the withdrawal of an item from the agenda or for the extension of the agenda. [[Back-up advertising.]] Mr. Squeakl, please don't take advantage of your business options. Is it going to be the same thing?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u6	Same thing, Mr. President. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u7	No, the procedural proposal has already been made.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u8	Just let me finish my sentence.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u9	Here you go, Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u10	Mr President, I would like to discuss the next matter. You just said the truth. Not all parliamentary groups agreed to your proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u11	Mr. Squeakl, this is not a procedural proposal. I take your word for it. I therefore propose to the assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda which you have received with reference. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 72 votes against none. [[The vote was 72.]] [[No one.]] I take it the agenda for the 9th meeting of the assembly has been set. I hereby adjourn the meeting, which will be resumed at 3 p.m. with questions from Members and Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u12	Dear Members and honourable Members! Please take your seats so we can continue the meeting. We're moving on to one. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - QUESTIONS FROM THE MISSIONS AND THE CONCERNERS. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received 34 Members and Members in writing within the time limit. The order of business shall be laid down on the basis of an agreement with the Heads of the Groups of Members and in accordance with Article 244(2) and Article 245(2) and Article 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The first three questions raised by members of the opposition and the Member of the ruling coalition's question to the Member of Parliament will be answered by the Prime Minister. Then the Minister of Culture Dr Vasko Simoniti, Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs will be mag. Janez Drobnič and Minister of Finance Dr Andrej Bajuk answered the parliamentary questions raised at the 8th meeting of the National Assembly, to which they did not respond due to their absence. Members who have submitted two questions will ask the second question after all the Members who are registered ask one question. Members have three minutes to ask the question, the Prime Minister and the ministers reply to the questions within five minutes at the most, even if the question is raised by more ministers. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask an additional question. Members, I ask you to pay attention to this. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be presented by the Member in two minutes and the reply may be completed for a maximum period of three minutes. With regard to the application of the questions sent, I would like to inform you that Mr Ivan Yelen has raised a question of local importance, which is why I have forwarded it to the competent minister, on the basis of Rule 243 of the Rules of Procedure, who will prepare a written reply. On this point, the following ministers apologized for today: Minister of Finance Dr. Andrej Bajuk and Minister of Economy Mag. Andrej Vizjak. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised today, the Prime Minister or the Minister must provide him with a written reply within 30 days, which will also be published in the bulletin of the National Assembly. A Member who has asked a question to which he has not received an answer may declare that he insists on an oral response. In this case, I will place the question at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. On the bench, you received a review of the questions sent and of the initiatives that have not yet been answered in the course of business. We are moving on to a presentation of the questions sent. As has already been said, the first four questions will be answered by Prime Minister Janez Janša. In this regard, I would like to remind you that this meeting upgraded the conference-voting system in the large hall by automatically turning off the speaker's microphone after 15 seconds after the scheduled time for discussion. This also applies to the Prime Minister and the Ministers. I would also like to remind you that one minute after the automatic turn off of the microphone, it is not possible to re-enable it. The first question will be asked by Mr Dusan Kumer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u13	Thank you for your word. Honourable Prime Minister, Honourable Minister and Ministers, Colleagues and Colleagues! The cartel connectivity of our economy is one of the most pressing problems that hinder our economic development. This is often the case with links at the border of criminal activity, such as the parking of shares which, due to their capital, media and political power, no one hopes to be effectively put on the edge, among other things, Mr President, said in his forthcoming mandate speech last December in this Chamber. During the last days and weeks of the Mercator affair, we have our own climax. The imprudent and behind-the-clock sale of Mercator's shares in the direction of the first KAD and SOD men and their supervisors must be part of the elite society, the country's questionable economic decisions, as you defined at the end of last year. The critics are flying from all sides. They are also addressed by members of the Government Strategic Council and the Government Reform Committee. It is no wonder, therefore, that the government's responses so far are not convincing as to the promises enshrined in the Coalition Treaty. The coalition was led to a transparent withdrawal from the economy through calls for proposals and auctions, as well as international targets and the largest possible buyer. If this is not the case, it is the sale of state property and the suspicions of damage to state property are repeatedly expressed by the current Finance Minister, Mr Bayuk, when he was still an opposition Member. The reasons for the uncertainty of this deal are more than too much: the imprudent sales process, the price too low, the experts estimate the injury to cca. 30 billion, which means 2,000 apartments, 10 falcons and so on. In short, those responsible in KAD and SOD act as if they run a discount warehouse with state assets and not two such important state funds. In view of the fact that, for example, there are quite a few people from the government in the KAD Assembly and Supervisory Committee, or the government has appointed them there, Mr President, I ask you: As Prime Minister and Guardian of the Coalition Treaty, will you take action against those responsible who have allowed the sale of shares and the withdrawal of the State from Mercator to take place in an untransparent and untransparent manner and to the obvious detriment of taxpayers and small shareholders? I also ask: Is the government not and does not want to guarantee equality of citizens, especially those before the law, because in the case of Mercator's shares, small shareholders and investors have been deliberately damaged? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u14	Thank you, Mr. Kumar. Mr. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u15	First of all, thank you very much for the question, honourable Member. At the beginning of the reply, there will be no misunderstandings, which were quite something when this topic has been discussed in the past, let me say that the government has not had any problems with the revision of these transactions and also of all other transactions concluded by the para-State funds since the beginning of its existence. We do not have any problems if Parliament is to initiate any procedures here, or if the requirements are to be made, the government will do everything within the framework of the law and the law to ensure that these audits are carried out and that the actual situation is established. If, just as you now estimate the alleged injury in the case of Mercator's sale of minority shares, you estimate how much damage has occurred in the past years, when shares were sold in a substantially less transparent way than this last one, you would say that the damages were for about 200, 300 billion, for 50,000 apartments, for 150 falcons and so on. In short, we can talk about these categories with huge surpluses. As for the obvious, the legal profession criticised this parastatal fund business. Some have criticized, some have not criticized. As an independent legal profession, the emphasis was on those who were critical of this even before they knew the circumstances, not to say before they knew the treaty. As an independent economic expert, Dr. Bogomir Kovac, candidate for Liberal Democracy in the presidential elections, was most exposed. On national television he performed as an independent arbitrator in the event of this business. Usually, when it came to such matters, there was someone else, such as Mr Marjan Kocbek, who has often evaluated such transactions in the past. Mr Kocbek said in a statement published by only one medium: "I can hardly imagine that there would be anything wrong with this business. The EU guidelines for public shareholders, to which many of these criticisms refer, were adopted in January and must be implemented in their own legal order within two years. That is to say, even if, at any time in these or previous transactions of the parastatal funds, something was wrong with the guidelines, they do not apply at this time. However, according to this information the government has, there is nothing wrong so far with the European acquis. The topic, until it became the main one, was the withdrawal of the state from the economy, since the government does not keep its promises before the elections and the promise of a coalition treaty to withdraw from the economy. The more we explained that it was a gradual process, the more we explained that we had inherited the organisation of the para-state funds, the company law, all the other regulations governing this area that had been adopted so far, and that we were also preparing reforms in this area, the greater the pressure was that we should just get out of the economy. These were addresses practically every week. When some procedure was carried out in the same way as in all previous cases, 30, 40, 50, suddenly the topic was no longer the withdrawal of the country from the economy, but it was precisely this withdrawal that was problematic, arguing that small shareholders were injured at some price that was not real. Whether the price was real or not, I don't know because I'm not an expert at that price. However, valuations were made last year, even under the previous government. The valuations were made now, the price of the shares was finally determined by the administration at the time of the recapitalisation. And that's the price we know. We can all think of surpluses. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u16	Thank you, Prime Minister. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go, Mr. Kumer.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Dear Prime Minister, if we did not understand each other correctly, I asked about the matter that took place in 2005 and was not a Member in 2001/2002. I don't accept the argument that if the previous ones did bad, we can do worse. I would warn you that in this case the government has a great responsibility and I will quote two articles in the statute of the capital company, Article 4, which states that the founder and sole shareholder of the capital company is the Republic of Slovenia. At this point, the Republic of Slovenia is represented by the Government as a shareholder on behalf of the State. Furthermore, Article 55 states that a KAD shareholder must be always and truly fully informed of all matters relevant to the conduct and operation of the KAD. The shareholder shall be informed in writing by the Management Board of the KAD of the matters he is doing. That's Article 55 of the Statute. On the basis of these facts, I would also like to use your terminology, a responsible and courageous government without bad news, to offer information at any time to this Parliament. Moreover, I could also take action to some of the most responsible ones, especially because of the things I previously counted. Otherwise, the competent authorities will actually receive a final judgment on this. But the government has committed itself to not doing so in the same way that it has done in the past and that it will now do so in a transparent and transparent manner. I therefore repeat the question I raised earlier: will you, as Prime Minister and Government, act against members of the government or people sitting in the government and sitting in the capital society and the SOD at the same time? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u18	Thank you, Mr. Kumer. Mr. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u19	The Government shall act when the competent authorities find that something has happened. However, it must not act on the basis of newspaper articles or media racing that took place in this case. As I said at the outset, we have no problems with audits, and the government is not in the position that if they have done wrong before, we too can do wrong. I've said this a number of times, and you can quietly address it somewhere else. If anything was wrong in this particular case, we will act. However, we do not agree with the idea that by 3 December last year everything was fine because they were doing so from another political option, but now some others are and are subject to other rules. At the moment, the same laws apply to this area as they were before, and we are obliged to implement and respect them. As far as the two parastatal funds are concerned, it is true that the only shareholder is the state, but both funds have their own bodies, which are obliged to work by law and by domestic law. In the previous term, the opposition had no chance of participating in the management of the capital company, nor had any member in the supervisory council. The current opposition has members in the supervisory council. Nothing could be written about the previous term because it was not known. But maybe there's something going on back there. Now things are going transparently on this contract, and the deal was written before it was concluded, before the supervisors discussed it. As far as small shareholders are concerned, the small shareholder in Mercator is most exposed. The President of the Mercator administration has about 1% of the stake, worth a billion or two, I don't know how much, since the small shareholder in Mercator has also recorded a rapid growth in personal property in a few billion. I must say that there is a concern of the Social Democrats for a small person or small shareholder in this case.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u20	Thank you, Mr. President. Procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u21	Given that the Social Democrats will really care for a small man because some have stopped caring for a small man, in accordance with Rule 246(2) of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that the State Assembly hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister to my question. In view of Article 13 of the Statute, the KAD Assembly is also not legally and legitimately established. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u22	Thank you. On the proposal by Mr Kumer to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister to his question of the delegation, the State Assembly will decide in the framework of tomorrow's vote. The next question to the Prime Minister will be asked by Mr Zmigo Jelinčič noble. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u23	Thank you very much, Mr. President. That's a nice hello to you all! Mr. Prime Minister! Croatian policy is completely uncompromising and unscrupulous when it comes to their interests. History is full of lies, fraud, embezzlement and falsification of documents by Croats. And yet it's like we haven't learned anything yet. I therefore ask: When will there be a visible shift and changes in attitudes in Slovenian-Croatian relations, especially in relation to the European Union? After all, we are in the European Union, Croatia wants to. Let me give you an interesting example of how Ljubljana's Work 21.6.1991 wrote about the transition to Dragonja. At that time, workers of the road company from Kopra laid the foundations for the border crossing, on the other side, on the left bank of Dragonje. When asked by our great journalists, who were always afraid of what Croats would say, they said the border was 200 higher. That's what they say, on the top of the hill. That's recorded. At that time, it was said that there will be no border crossings, but there will be eight checkpoints between Slovenia and Croatia, namely Sečovlje, Dragonja, Jelšane, Metlika, Obrežje, Dobovec, Gruškovje and the Centre near Drava. In the meantime, the previous government has set up, I think about 50, 60 border crossings that the current government still maintains. When it comes to putting Croats in the right place, and when it comes to stopping, we also use the term "disputed territories" in the media on our side, and I don't know what else is going to happen, which is always in use on Slovenian television, in newspapers. This is especially the case with Mr Šuligoj and Lorenzo, who would say that they are more on the Croatian side than on the Slovenian side. After all, it is a fact that Croatians know that Istria has never been Croatian, that Strigova has never been Croatian and that arbitration is needed at the entire Slovenian-Croatian border. In this regard, I also ask: When will the government prepare historical documents on these matters? The documents are huge and the starting points are those that are important for us to make them right when we want to achieve our right. Our right is evident, historically justified. Please answer both questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u24	Thank you, Mr. Jelinčich. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u25	Thank you for asking. With no major deviations, Slovenia has been working to implement good neighbourly relations policies since 1991, since Slovenia and Croatia were independent countries. During this time, practically Slovenia did not take any unilateral step that would go through constitutional decisions taken both in the Slovenian Parliament and in the Croatian Parliament regarding the border and certain other matters. On the other hand, in individual periods after 1991, Croatia was dominated by a policy that advocated a policy of unilateral steps, some such steps have been taken. With these steps, the situation at the border has changed to the detriment of Slovenia, according to the state of June 1991. Circles in Croatia, which have just done such a policy to them, are still active. As a result, the greatest difficulty was when we coordinated the brionic statement on the avoidance of incidents, precisely as regards the formulation that it stemmed from the situation of the border, of June 1991. However, this declaration was signed. In this way, at least at some formal level, we have put this policy of unilateral steps in the foreword that we have not even at the time made illusions and that we do not today make it possible to change a situation overnight, especially because this policy has given the neighbouring country certain advantages during certain periods. When the negotiations between Croatia and Italy on the formal division of the continental belts on the Adriatic were concluded, we assessed that this was a step that was not in line with the policy that was agreed and given the legal options that existed in Slovenia and were added to the maritime code. Unfortunately, only a few years ago, Slovenia reacted and established here or will establish, when this law is adopted, a re-equitable situation where it will also be possible to negotiate the precise delimitation of ecological zones or sovereignty when it comes to the issue of sovereignty when it comes to sovereign belts. This is the first time that Slovenia is seriously responding to a step which, as a unilateral step, aims to put into practice a different state than it was in 1991. Unfortunately, so far Slovenia has not been able to do so; otherwise, it would probably be longer in these negotiations, but Slovenia will continue to avoid steps in practice that could encourage conflicts or aim at making a move when you gain something in the short term to worsen the negotiating position in the long term. The tenders, as you wrote in your question, regarding arbitration by Slovenia, have never been answered apriorously negative in previous mandates, not in this government's mandate. Arbitration is an option that exists better than an open conflict. Slovenia has always been in the position to have sufficient arguments for such inclusion by the third party to judge. Lots of data, documents collected. We also discussed this for the last time at the meeting of the presidents of the parliamentary parties. However, for the first time, we have not received such a formal offer from Croatia for such a step, and for the second time, even if both parties decide in principle on arbitration, it is necessary to define the origins of this arbitration. So that's a long way to go. If there is a chance that a solution will come along a shorter path, we will still give priority to such a path. As has already been said, this is also an option that we do not rule out.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u26	Thank you, Mr. President. Does Mr. Jelinčič want to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Well, the fact is that Slovenia will certainly not take steps to stir up conflicts, and maybe it would be just as good for us to take a step, not always kneeling before the Croatian side. The negotiating position of Slovenia is extremely poor precisely because we have never done anything except that some went to tennis on that side. The fact is that the Croats have agreed with Italy, which is in the European Union. We are also in the European Union, and yet some country is negotiating with another country that is not in the European Union. Therefore, I think it would be sensible to hold an international conference at the level of the European Union, where these matters would be discussed, because this is the only option when all matters relating to Croatia can be cleared up. The fact is that the starting points are really the most important thing in the arbitration, so I'm talking about the starting points that are historically justified, but not that we're going to give the starting point to the Bay of Piran and then we're only going to get half. The fact is that Croats, including their academics and all the rest of the world, lie, fake and fake documents, which they did all their history with the help of their communist leaders. The fact is, we should do something here. And it might make sense for Slovenia to make a formal bid for arbitration by giving in a closed envelope different starting points than Croatia will give, which will certainly give a starting point for arbitration, so that the border with Slovenia will be somewhere near Grosuplje.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u28	Thank you, Mr. Jelinčich. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u29	Thank you for this supplementary question or opinion. At this stage, I do not think Slovenia will go forward and take over the proposal for any arbitration. In our view, there is no reason for any rush, nor is there any reason for any nervousness. Slovenia has a stable international position with membership in the European Union and NATO; it also has a favourable economic position; our gross domestic product, although Croatia is once again a larger country, is somewhere at the same level called the resident, is once again higher. Croatia is our third or fourth economic partner. Many economic interests on both sides are in both countries, it is in the common interest that these relations are being strengthened. Ask representatives of the Slovenian economy and you will see that everyone shares this opinion. Croatia will always be our neighbor. The rate of introduction of European standards, any new European standard implemented in Croatia, facilitates such economic cooperation as a result, indirectly addressing these open issues. It's a long way to go. Slovenia has its responsibilities here as a member of the European Union, and so far there is really no reason to be nervous or hasty with any proposals that have not been finalized. However, all options must be taken into account and prepared for them. Among them, international arbitration.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u30	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Jelinčič, do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u31	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am not satisfied with this response, and I would therefore suggest, in accordance with Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, that we hold a debate on this point at the next meeting of the National Assembly, namely the debate on the response of the Prime Minister to the question raised. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u32	Thank you. On the proposal by Mr Jelinčič to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister to his question on the matter, the State Assembly will decide in the framework of tomorrow's vote. The next one will ask the Prime Minister the question of Mr Matej Lahovnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Prime Minister! I wonder: How do you assess the country's withdrawal strategy and the two parastatal funds in 2005? In the last period, we have witnessed strange transactions with hydrotechnics, the MTS Compass, where the parastatal funds are losing huge amounts. In the case of Mercator, this is a significantly higher amount. This transaction is characterised by three elements. For the first time, ignorance, your political appointee, Mr Toplak, a member of your party whom you appointed as head of the KAD and a failed New Slovenia candidate in the last state-run elections, Mr Pogačnik, sold Mercator at a price. It was a sale and not a sale. You said how it used to be. At times, when Lek was taken over, the price at the 60,000 tolar stock exchange was 95,000 tolars. The leaders of the two parastatal funds, Mr Lenič and Mr Kušar, formed a consortium of owners and negotiated for even more, for 105,000 tolars, 80% of the premium. In Mercator's case, there's a premium of 0. If she were like that in the case of Lek, the country would get 28 billion dollars more. For this money, we could build a pediatric clinic and an oncology institute. This is 170,000 average net earnings in Slovenia. The whole working population is working one week for this money. And you think these obviouss are funny. You sold under the table, intransparency. And speaking of which, reference. You mentioned Mr. Kovac. The fact that such a business is harmful and as a citizen is concerned was discussed by the President of the Government Privatisation Committee, Mr Simoniti, whom you have appointed to this position. The president of the Reform Committee, Mr Jože P. Damjan, who you have appointed to this position, said that this is a financial incest. That this is a suspicion of political corruption you actually reminded me of when you mentioned Mr Kovac. You, too, have appointed your former presidential candidate in the National Elections as Head of the Prosecutor's Office. You're canceling the anti-corruption committee. I wonder what kind of money will be compensated for by these 28 billion tolars that you took out of your pocket to Slovenian taxpayers. Three elements: ignorance, arrogance, you don't listen to your own experts, not independent, Dr. Savina, who said that it was a matter of interfering with the economy in a strange and opaque way, including your own experts appointed by you to the Strategic Council and various committees. And the third element: the suspicion of political corruption.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u34	Thank you, Mr. Lakhovnik. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u35	Thank you so much for asking. If I end up with this last charge of suspected political corruption, then I must say that this government did not first sell shares in Mercator, and I hope that the previous government did not sell shares in Lek, but that the competent authorities did so according to the procedures laid down by law. That's why I wouldn't brag about it like that. As far as political corruption is concerned, I do not see any member of government parties in the administration among the key people of companies who bought Mercator's shares from the two para-State funds. All I see are members of the LDS and the United List. That's the only connection. Somehow I find this observation absurd, unless, of course, it is measured in its own kind and comes from a situation in a party before a congress, which is not a matter of government. Regarding the withdrawal of both parastatal funds from the economy. At this point, the rules of the game as defined by you apply and are followed by the same procedures. This year, a capital company intends to withdraw from around 35 companies or companies. It's just that procedures are under way. A strategy is being drawn up whereby this coalition will fulfil the promises it has made in the coalition contract in a way that, for the first time, the capital company will provide or contribute to the stability of the pension system and that the compensation company will be able to provide the needs for which it was established, it is said, to pay compensation to denationalising beneficiaries and others, as defined by the law. At this point, we have acquired an inheritance that does not guarantee that the strategic objectives of both sides are met. We're gonna change these things. There are discussions on how this transformation would be best. The fact is that we have included various experts with different opinions in the Reform Committee. This government and this coalition bear it because it's wide enough and open enough. I do not recall any discussions from previous mandates where members of the strategic councils of previous governments had different opinions were not allowed. Typically, politics has determined something, and then the so-called independent profession has nodded it, and there have never been any controversy. They're moving now. Also with regard to the future strategy of the two Funds, there are different opinions in the subgroup of the Committee on Reforms which is preparing this, which is the opinion of Mr Simoniti, which you quoted, other opinions. Mr Simoniti advocates an immediate step in the sense that both parastatal funds are withdrawn from active ownership. They are said to withdraw members of the supervisory boards from all companies where the funds have a higher share and leave management to minority shareholders. I've talked about one of these shareholders before, and there are others. About 30 people in that country occupied the supervisory councils of all these societies during the previous authorities, where the state had its stakes. And if both funds immediately withdraw their active role, it means that all these people stay there without being held accountable for their work there. That's not what this government's gonna do. I'll say it in advance. Active management will withdraw at the same time as shares. As long as these shares exist, there will be responsibility. If we agreed to another thesis, it would mean that we are not prepared to do anything to break down some network that Mr Kumer spoke very clearly about earlier. That Slovenia becomes a normal society, even when it comes to corporate issues, is a transparent and gradual withdrawal and we will insist.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u36	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Lakhovnik, would you like to complete your answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u37	I can't be satisfied with the answer. Mr. Prime Minister, you've made a very strange deal. Not only did you sell out the state's assets for 28 billion dollars, what are the financing costs? They did it on four meals! The cost of financing is around 3% interest rate. I went to the bank this morning, and I realized that if citizens want to buy a winter break, buy potatoes, the interest rate is 7%! You sell first-class shares of Slovenian companies for half-rate meals, as is the case with ordinary citizens. Let others buy apartments, rent consumer credits at 3% interest rate! Please! Mr Prime Minister, when I spoke about political corruption, I listened to your statement on the radio Celje. At that time, you said that professional criticism was ridiculous and unfounded, but they did not know the content of the contract. If you said that, it means you knew her. And there are serious indications after reporting to the media that you were present on 12 August this year at a meeting where Mercator's sale was discussed and you were familiar with the business. So I ask you: Were you at any meeting on August 12th, where the work mentioned was also mentioned? Please answer this question clearly and unequivocally. Of course, there are still a number of other matters of the withdrawal of the country from the economy. At the head of Eles, this government named Mr Vitoslav Tuerk. Against this same gentleman, Eles has two and a half billion damages for trading with the fallen Enron. Now what? The government calls him head of Eles, director, so he can settle himself. That's a really interesting way to get the country out of the economy. Three elements: knowledge, arrogance, the sum of political corruption. Please answer: Were you at any meeting on August 12 where Mercator's sale was also considered?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u38	Thank you, Mr. Lakhovnik. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u39	First of all, let me just say that I don't know how to answer some flat-rate charges and get down to the same level, somehow it's not my way of communicating. To quote my statements on Radio Celje like this, I find it a little inappropriate. I just said I don't know the contract and I can't comment on it. I don't know if she's good or bad, and I'm surprised at the expertise of experts who are capable of it. That was my statement, and I'm staying with her. If someone didn't know the circumstances, and he criticized the case, he's an indisputable expert for me. And these were quite a few, including those directly paid by the Mercator administration for other businesses and were then painted on the front pages of newspapers as an independent opinion from Austria or from anywhere. And this independent opinion, of course, indirectly paid with heavy millions, perhaps billions of taxpayers’ money. But that's how it's used. As far as the action against Mr Korosc or the story with Eles is concerned, this is a little longer. Mr. Tuerk is your predecessor, you have not yet been replaced in the government in record time, after the elections in 2000. Revenge brought him another lawsuit. He went to court for this exchange and was legally decided in court that he had been released illegally. And since the story was legally completed there, it was just that he had everything he could read. Just because someone has filed an action against some in retaliation does not mean that someone is guilty and cannot be appointed to a place to do so. If this criterion were met, this list of people who cannot be appointed to a place would be very long. As far as I'm concerned, there's a lot of talk about this business that's supposed to be in dispute with you. That's the kind of conversation I have today. First, I discussed Mercator and the situation, the assistance the government can offer to Mercator in breaking into foreign markets, with the President of the administration. This was also controversial for some. I have spoken to various directors on various occasions, usually they also go to visit other countries, so that I have no problems in this regard, but that government or I have never personally decided on specific business activities, concluded no discussions, set no stock prices or any other transactions, as has now been seen many times before, that is what the authorities established are responsible for.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u40	Time's up. Mr. Lakhovnik, would you like a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u41	In accordance with the second paragraph of Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure, I request a discussion on the response and non-response of the Prime Minister, and I justify this with the following. In some ways, the Prime Minister here publicly admitted that he was aware of a limited transaction on 12 August. In any event, this debate will enable what he knew, which elements he was familiar with. In particular, I would like to point out once again that 28 billion tolls of taxpayers' damages are for sale, sale on rations, on four meals at a ridiculously low interest rate. And, above all, once again, it was not clear that the government had concluded on this. We know that. It was obvious that this happened when the Prime Minister was informed and gave his blessing for this harmful transaction, which he in some way acknowledged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u42	Thank you, Mr. Lakhovnik. The proposal by the Member to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister to his question of the Member of Parliament will be decided by the State Assembly in the framework of tomorrow's vote. The next question will be put to Mr President by Mr Jože Tanko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u43	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. To the Prime Minister and to all present a nice greeting! In the past, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has suppressed free competition and free economic initiative by favouring individual companies. A typical example of this is the relationship of the former government in the relationship between Petrol and Geoplin, where, according to the media, the state preferred Petrol in relation to the other shareholders in Geoplin and thus caused, in addition to impermissible policy interference in the economy, other shareholders who eventually ended up cancelling the social contract. Even more so, the then government and Petrol have signed even a secret treaty on relations between the State and Geoplin. It is therefore difficult to understand that in the current situation in connection with Mercator, the LDS party is being transferred and in some way ignoring its conduct when in power. Mr. President! I wonder: What does the Government of the Republic of Slovenia intend to do to prevent such practices as have occurred in the case of Petrol and Geoplin? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u44	Thank you, Mr. Tank. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr President, Mr Lahovnik has previously made an accusation by misappropriation of the Rules of Procedure to which I am going to answer. He said: "The Prime Minister publicly admitted that he had decided on this transaction on 12 August." The Prime Minister has not publicly admitted this, and the Prime Minister has expressly denied it, so I am protesting such abuse of the Rules of Procedure. [[Back-up advertising.]] With regard to the question of the delegation, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u46	Please, be quiet!
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u47	Dear Mr Tanko actually believes that this treaty has been concluded. [[...]] Government of the Republic of Slovenia under the guidance of mag. In the middle of last year, Anton Ropa signed a secret contract with Petrol. In this secret contract, which has received its annex even, I think that in November, after the elections, just before the appointment of the new government, the Republic of Slovenia, or the Government on behalf of the Republic of Slovenia, with a contract that was not known to the Slovenian public or other shareholders in Geoplin, gave Petrol a privileged position to purchase new shares. This Treaty provides in Article 4: "Petrol acquires the company's business shares, whose owners, at the time of the conclusion of this contract Sava, d.d., Kranj, 6%, Mercury, Color Medvode and so on, which the Republic of Slovenia expressly agrees with and declares with the signature of this contract that it allows Petrol to acquire these business shares. The contract was signed by Mag on behalf of the Government. Janez the Digger. No one knew about it. The new government also had major problems by somehow withdrawing the code of secrecy from this treaty. Interestingly, despite the eccentric violation of certain rules of the game, there was no special reaction. It is also interesting that the Ministry of the Economy then had very serious difficulties, that things somehow brought things back to normal legal frameworks and the legal situation. There are other cases like this. I would like to point out that this treaty was not only a secret at a time when business was concluded or as long as things were being negotiated, which could be understandable in their own way. It was a secret not only contract, but also the fact that an agreement had been reached, even after this agreement had already entered into force, which reminds us of the logic of the former secret official papers. If we compare this case with some others, then we can see that some institutions and individuals are using distinct double criteria to assess comparable procedures and that unfortunately, some of these criteria have been written about this contract, and some so-called experts in this area are also using some of these criteria. When the Government addressed the withdrawal of confidentiality from this Treaty and the proposals for measures aimed at remedying the harmful consequences of such a treaty, it also adopted some general decisions that further prevented any possibility of such abuse of the executive power being made at any time.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u48	Thank you, Mr. President. This concludes the questions put to the Prime Minister, Mr Janez Janša. The 8th meeting of the National Assembly is attended by Members Milan Petek, mag. Majda Potrata, Ljubo Germič, Srečko Friend and Dušan Kumer asked questions from the Minister of Culture Dr Vasko Simoniti, Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs mag. Janez Petty Officer and Finance Minister Dr. Andre Bajuk. The ministers at the meeting were not present. Since Members have requested an oral response, they will receive it today. The Minister of Finance apologized for today's meeting, so the Member will be given an answer at the next meeting. First, the Minister for Culture, Dr Vasko Simoniti, will answer the questions of Milan Petk on the question of co-financing the restoration of the minority monastery and the construction of the puppet theatre in Maribor. Here you go, Dr. Simonita.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u49	Thank you very much. With regard to the question of Mr Petk, I would like to explain at the outset that, at the Ministry of Culture, we do not intend to deprive Maribor at the expense of Ljubljana, either in terms of cultural development or in specific investments. Regarding the puppet theatre Maribor, I would like to say that with regard to investing in puppet theatre, I can say that at the Ministry of Culture we are aware that this project saves not only for the development of culture among young people, but also important cultural heritage, which we have in Slovenia. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u50	Please, only Mr. Secretary has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u51	since it is at the same time a restoration of the Minorite Monastery. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u52	Excuse me. Only Mr. Secretary has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u53	At the same time it is a restoration of the minority monastery in the very center of Maribor. Since the financial structure of the project has not yet been closed, and this is a condition for co-financing under the Cultural Tolar Act, we agreed at a joint meeting between the Ministry of Culture and the Municipality of Maribor that we will seek to obtain additional funding also through the European Union funds. We also suggested that the project should be reviewed once again and perhaps cheap, and that the ministry's payments should be suspended, so to speak, but not stopped. With regard to priority, it should be pointed out that data from the implementation of all the years since the cultural tolar law has been in force show that no year of law has been fully realized, but on average with a poor third. In fact, this means that there are always priorities within the available resources, taking account of planned investments. Given that a major investment has been made in the Drama and Opera Maribor premises in the past, we believe that something similar should be done in Ljubljana, especially if we do everything to make an investment in the puppet theatre. If we cannot talk about any centralism anywhere in the field of investment in Slovenia. The puppet theatre Maribor is indeed one of the unrealised investments from the basic law, but others, as I mentioned earlier, are also unrealised, Drama in Ljubljana, Opera and Ballet Ljubljana, Modern Gallery and still unfinished facilities on Metelkova and so on. On the basis of this, it is not possible to say that the Ministry of Culture has set its priorities in the implementation of the programme imposed by law, taking into account the only priority in the preparation of the programme, namely the willingness to implement it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u54	Thank you, Minister. Do you want to complete the answer? Mr. Friday, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u55	Thank you, President, for your word. I am pleased, Mr Minister, that after two and a half months I have received a slightly more concrete response than I have been so far, although I must say that I do not agree to the thesis that I have suggested to you or that I have not understood. You clearly wrote in your letter that the Maribor puppet theatre is no longer among the priorities. Thank God you've put it back into your priorities now, so I think that this answer at the border is still acceptable, but I'm asking you. The Maribor City Hall conducts talks with the Ministry and, as far as I know, you have a letter in the house confirming or just before you confirm the funding in 2006, 2007 and 2008. This is the information from the city house of Maribor. That's why I'm asking: Is that so? And: When will you sign the agreement that this dynamic of funding will be as I have now said?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u56	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u57	Thank you very much. So, the agreement itself, if we are to write or sign it, as you claim to be at the Ministry of Culture, I must say that I am not familiar, but we were with the Mayor of Maribor on 1 July and found that this financial structure for the puppet theatre is not closed and the Ministry did not object to any additional funds being obtained. Therefore, as I have already mentioned, it is attempting to obtain these funds by share, under the law on the financing of municipalities, but co-financing cannot be a pre-mandatory obligation of the Ministry of Culture. We ourselves have expressed the view that the project itself is 2 billion and 400 million for puppet theatres and that it needs to be re-examined and evaluated. About how far these signatures you've been talking about, I can't tell you right now and I don't know them.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u58	Thank you, Minister. Ma'am mag. Majda Potrat asked the Minister of Culture, Dr Vasko Simoniti, about the impact of the Presidency of the European Union on the legal priorities adopted in culture. Mr. Minister, an oral response was desirable.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u59	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So my answer, ladies and gentlemen, to her questions is as follows. The European Union Presidency and the European Capital of Culture 2012 are next. With regard to the Presidency of the European Union in the first half of 2008, I can say that we set up a working group at the Ministry a good two months ago for this task and that the detailed drafting of the project is actively being prepared. Not to be a project of Ljubljana's centralism, says the fact that most of the activities are likely to take place in other places outside Ljubljana: Brdo pri Kranj, Jable pri Domžalah, Villa Bled and so on. We want to improve and strengthen national cultural infrastructure in the capital, but also a network of cultural institutions throughout Slovenia. To this end, we have added to this year's call for a network of regional multimedia centres the role of integration of cultural institutions at local and regional level. So in this Maribor, in particular, we didn't ignore it. Both projects, the EU Presidency and the European cultural capitals are an exceptional opportunity to link creative potentials at cultural and economic level with a clear vision and with a well-developed strategy for the development of Slovenia, even more specifically with the national development programme, which is in preparation, launching and supporting our country's new development cycle. On 13 April 2005, the European Parliament and the Council adopted an amendment to Decision 1419 of 2003 extending the list of European cultural capitals for the period 2007-2019, i.e. with the new Member States, and as is known, the European cultural capital will be in Slovenia and Portugal in 2012. The process now includes a comprehensive recast of the 2003 decision, which is prepared on the basis of the reports of the selection panels of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, Media and Sport of the European Parliament commissioned by the European Commission. The debate on the proposal at the end of May therefore touched on a number of issues that I can list, but when this process is concluded, it is also possible to answer the question of the choice of the European cultural capital in Slovenia. So it's not about favoring Ljubljana or any other city. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u60	Thank you, Minister. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go, ma'am.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u61	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Minister, in my justification, I have not even read the centralism of this government or Ljubljana's preference. I came from the facts that in your response to the construction of the puppet theatre, you yourself wrote that the construction of the puppet theatre in preparation for the Presidency of the European Union in 2008 is no longer among the priorities of the Ministry of Culture. Today, in response to your colleague Petek after, of course, months of waiting for this answer, you said that such a decision was also linked to the high cost of building a puppet theater. The price you set includes the restoration of the Minorite Monastery. Since I participated alone in the construction projects of the puppet theatre, I know that the technical equipment of the theatre and everything else is already minimized and adapted to both the population of children to whom this theatre is intended, as well as more purposes. However, what is related to the establishment of the cultural capital at the time of Portugal 2012 is that a person would expect that, in accordance with what has been adopted so far, you will also publish the invitation to tender and that you will assign this honor to the Portuguese cultural capital of Europe, as it is called, to the best bidder. There are several cities in Slovenia that are competing for this honor. It is also the thought that a cultural capital could be dispersed. And that's what we'd actually expect to be [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] to represent Europe and to this it is an honour for the cultural capital of Europe to choose at the invitation of the best bidder. [[...]] [[...]] That's the way it's supposed to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u62	Thank you, Mrs. Patrati. Mr. Secretary. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u63	Thank you very much. I did not follow up on the question in Mrs Ambassador's additional speech. That's all I could say is that the honourable Member said she had to wait months for an answer. So it was because of the holiday and because I was once absent from Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u64	Thank you. The Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs' response. Mag. Janez Drobnic owes an oral reply to Mr Ljub Germić on the duration of the choice of partnership for the implementation of the projects of the Community Equal Initiative Programme. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u65	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much for the question, honourable Member. An invitation to tender for the financing of the Community’s development partnerships was published in the Official Journal of 2004 on 16 July. Seventy-eight applicants signed up. At the time of the preparation of the programming document, the then government decided to support some 17 development partnerships in specific areas. On this basis, the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs in the previous government decided to support the 26 development partnerships that had been selected. The selected development partnerships have undertaken to submit to the managing authority, within six months, work programmes for the implementation and dissemination period under the so-called Development Partnership Agreement, including this International Cooperation Agreement, which is approved or rejected by the managing authority. The development partnerships, which were not selected, were then ensured by this managing body to cover certain costs. Once again, we must point out that in the invitation to tender, the selected development partnerships have been given a ticket to draw up more detailed development partnership agreements during this six-month preparatory period and, in accordance with the rules applicable equally to all, to be forwarded to the managing authority by a given date. These development partnerships have submitted these agreements and are already in force in the tendering documents or have all been informed, including in this Treaty, that in the event of non-approval of the agreement, development partnerships are entitled to reimbursement of the eligible costs incurred during the preparatory period. The contract also provides that the managing authority shall assess the agreements within eight weeks after the end of this period and approve or reject them. Therefore, on the basis of the invitation to tender, they are, of course, selected and shall then be determined in this six-month period whether they will be accepted or rejected. This clearly shows that the procedure was two-phased. This has been adopted within the framework of previous agreements and previous adopted rules, within the framework of the previous government. Therefore, the evidence of some unchosen partnerships that the procedure is one-phase is therefore unrealistic and indicates a lack of knowledge of the rules of this Equal programme. The latter, of course, is a prerequisite for the well-being, successful continuation and implementation of programmes. The Agreement was not analysed by the Acting Director, but by the relevant Commission, which was appointed by fully competent experts who were familiar with the rules and were impartial and unrelated assessors by project notifiers or their development and other partners; therefore, they should not have been involved in these projects in any way. The evaluators were four, namely an internationally recognised expert on evaluation and evaluation of labour market projects, employment, then a person responsible for the horizontal priority of gender equality, the person responsible for preparing public procurement in the context of technical assistance, and the person responsible for programming new programmes under the European Social Fund, who was already a member of the call committee that selected the development partnerships in the public tender, the perpetrator of the responsibility and, as far as I was concerned, of course, of the professional criteria and of all those co-workers who had already been selected within the previous government. So any bias or political attitude I must strongly reject. Quality was assessed according to precise substantive and financial criteria, according to EU Equal methodology, i.e. 10 substantive criteria and 5 financial criteria [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] I hope I've explained to you exactly the selection process and [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u66	Time's up. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u67	then [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u68	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Germich, would you like to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u69	Thank you so much for saying that. Thank you very much for your answer, Mr. Secretary. Of course, I cannot agree with you with the indications you are submitting in response, because the Community Equal Programme for the Republic of Slovenia, which was issued by the Government in March 2005, states on page 55 what the development partnership must prove in the development partnership agreement, together with the transnational cooperation agreement. There are no criteria among these criteria, such as innovation, management, intentionalness, justification of resources in relation to the activities envisaged and the adequacy of funds in relation to the activities envisaged by you as a ministry in the cited notification - i.e. in notices that do not even have legal training - to those you have excluded in your opinion in a well-founded two-stage procedure. In my opinion, this is an exclusion that gives a sense of bias. The sense of bias, of course, also gives the fact that Mr v.d. The Directorate for the Labour Market and Employment was very involved in the application of such programmes before taking up this task and was not successful. And of course, the question has been raised - given that many of the talk is that we are ineffective in drawing funds from European funds - how should those applying for such programmes have confidence in these procedures, if so, with additional criteria that have not been clear in advance in this regard. We will therefore be very interested in what the responses from Brussels will be and what responses will be made to a legal procedure that is somehow, as far as we are aware, triggered. And, of course, it will be very interesting to have a report, which should be done by 15.9. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Evaluation Commission of the "Equal" Programme in Slovenia, whose main purpose is to evaluate quality [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u70	Mr. Germich [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u71	the initial approach. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u72	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Well, you yourself have pointed out that it is not the responsibility of the acting director, because he was running for office last year, but he did not come into this choice and there was no involvement whatsoever. What are the most important documents? According to the Equal methodology, the European Social Fund Regulation, the Equal Community Initiative Programme, the Equal Community Initiative Programme for the new Member States, the key issues of the Equal mid-term evaluation, the Equal Monitoring and Evaluation Guidelines for Human Resources 2000-2006, and then the Commission's communication in the Guidelines for the Second Equal Community Mining Initiative. These are the documents on which the selection criteria are also established. As you can see, this is a two-step phase, and those who judge have the right to judge before deciding to implement the programmes definitively. Once again, all those applicants who applied for this programme had a cost recovery of 5% of the project, so they were not harmed in any way.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u74	Thank you, Minister. The responsibility of the two replies of the Minister of Finance, Dr Andre Bajuk, shall be transferred to the next meeting. We are moving on to questions of Members and Members. Dr Slavko Gaber will ask the Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u75	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. I would like to raise a question with my colleague Zupan on the issue of the autonomy of the R & D sector. We all know that a good decade has taken place in Slovenia in order to increase the degree of autonomy in this area. My colleague, Dr. Zupan, was one of the initiators, one of those who, as far as possible, took little part in this area. In some ways, the State, in agreement with the research sphere and the agreement with the user, listened to these requirements and gradually withdrew from this area. By setting up an agency, and before that, by substituting this agency and otherwise regulating the power relations in the boards of directors, I think a very good path has been put under pressure for the further development of science in Slovenia. And when this was added to the increase in R & D resources - according to the Ministry's data from 2002 to 2004, there was an increase from 0.55% of gross social product to 0.67% - there was a basis for this area to develop normally and to deal mainly with the economy at the Ministry and the Agency as well as with the question of how to get as much out of this area as possible. I would like to ask: Why do you, Mr. Minister, come with a proposal for a law before this National Assembly that changes the logic for which you have already taken your stand long before, and your colleagues and colleagues have taken up research institutes? The 2002 Act set out on the Management Boards a structure which is a partner, one third of the members should have researchers, one third of the country and one third of users on those boards. You are coming before the National Assembly with a proposal that de facto supports the institutes in Slovenia because you are reintroducing the majority administrative share in the country's boards. I just don't get it. I don't know why we're taking this step back in this case.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u76	Thank you, Dr. Gabru. Dr. Zupan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u77	Thank you so much for the opportunity to answer. Thank you very much to the honourable Member for the question. First of all, I will tell you a little bit about history, because the honourable Member said that I, as a researcher myself, advocated greater autonomy for researchers. I'd like to point out that there's a big difference. I am not talking about the autonomy of the institution, but I am talking about the autonomy of researchers, because I believe that the autonomy of the research work is the autonomy of the researcher, and this is certainly not the autonomy of the research institution. So here's the point, the reason, and the autonomy of the researcher as an independent personality is still, and I will always take my stand. As a minister, however, I have to withdraw from the researcher's position in a sense and look at the institutions. And in that sense, the law is ready. In fact, you have said that your government has drawn up a law that has been passed that there is a unitary relationship between researchers, the economy and the government in the boards of directors. This is, of course, a legitimate concept, which has proved to be - and this is the economy in the debates undoubtedly confirmed - that research institutions, in particular public research institutions, do not follow what the economy thinks they are meant to do; in short, they are giving too little to the economy. Although I do not fully support the economy, I believe that the research sphere in public research institutions has made a significant contribution to research, but I do not think that it is enough. And from this point of view, it is necessary - and the government is now responsible for the availability of state money, it is responsible for the use of state money and taxpayers' money for certain things, or for directing certain projects, which may not be the best option of certain researchers, however it is to focus on targeted research. For this reason, the responsibility for this must be transferred directly to where it belongs, i.e. to the authority that actually gives this money, which is the country. There is something else I would like to say about public and state affairs, because I am also interested in this difference between public and state. The fact is that public research institutions are all institutions set up by public persons, either by municipalities or by the state, and this is a broader term. If they are established by a congregation, they are municipal, but if they are established by a state, they are state. And from this point of view, the institutes we're talking about are, of course, state institutions. So, there is no difference here, and from this point of view there is no question of any kind of support, only that our government wants to focus its responsibility on those who manage it, these are the boards of directors. For scientific guidance alone - this needs to be said in particular - all these institutions have a scientific council that gives guidance to scientists, while the boards are responsible for doing this alone, as well as for monitoring to trigger control mechanisms if they feel that something is wrong. And it is at this point that we have seen the most inconsistencies because complaints are coming from researchers and from the other that, in this point of control and control of this act, it was not sufficiently done. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u78	Thank you, Minister. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u79	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Minister, look, the concept of public in this country has of course been well known for a long time, not to speak primarily of who is establishing something, but of how to decide what an institution is doing. In the field of research, we still need a partnership; a partnership between the economy or users on the one hand, researchers and countries. This is the concept of an existing law. You're increasing the power of the state. If you really believe that the power of users should be increased, then give more power to users. I have a feeling there's a syndrome in the back that's still valid for this government, that it doesn't really trust anyone but itself. Only the state knows what's right in the field of research, and that's what we're going to get at the end of the day from this story. I would therefore strongly recommend that you consult researchers on what they think about this - you have not done so - and at least withdraw this law from the procedure by then. But I have to ask you this: Do you not feel that politicization in this area is going too far? Because when you're reducing the role of researchers and users in the boards of directors, you've also decided to replace people on the agency's board of directors. The law explicitly states that they have a five-year term, and the entire Ljubljana says that two senior officials of the Ministry of Higher Education and Science have been forced to resign and that the third, doctor of science and director of the chemical institute have been replaced just like that, contrary to the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u80	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u81	Thank you very much for further clarifications on your question. Actually, it's a responsibility. Our government, contrary to the previous ones, has decided on a concentrated responsibility rather than a dispersed one. Well, it's about knowing exactly who's responsible for something. With this our government assumes greater responsibility, I agree with you that we can of course talk and we will also talk, but when the talks in some sense stop, then the government must decide and that is what is important. Talks can continue for a very, very long time, and if those who finance the matter - it has to be said that the state finances for research 33 billion a year, that two-thirds of them are in public research at the institutions of this money and, of course, the government has to be executive, so it has to make a decision at a certain time. But, of course, arrangements can take a long time. We will always negotiate and defend ourselves, but practice also shows that we cannot agree at certain points. But then we have to make a decision, and when we have to make a decision, we have to have a chance to make that decision. That's the first thing. What is said in Ljubljana, of course, you must understand that there are many things spoken in Ljubljana, but I have to say explicitly that both employees have resigned or there have been no problems with their resignation. In fact, they were still performing properly all the time, and we did not have any objections to their ways of leading them. However, the fact is that we want to have experts here, in this committee, who are experts in the substantive field. So we want to have experts in the substantive field, and that is why we have set them up. However, as far as the director of the chemical institute is concerned, his own address or function, in accordance with the Agency Act, is contrary to what it states explicitly that members of the Management Board must not have a conflict of interest in that agency which actually distributes money. And this is a conflict of interest, which, of course, is why we solved it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u82	Thank you, Minister. Ms Majda Potrat, the next, will ask the Minister of Culture a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u83	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, Mr Minister, Ministers and Minister. With the adoption of the National Programme for Culture in February 2004, culture in Slovenia received for the first time a strategic development document, just before Slovenia entered the EU. Among other things, the programme highlights the development aspect of culture, whether it is to promote a variety of creativity - individual or institutional - for human resources, social inclusion, the development of science, education and education or to promote quality leisure. The national programme was created throughout the decade, from the first thesis written by Dr Matjaž Kmecl, through a proposal prepared by Minister Rudi Sheligo, through a public debate from November 2002 and an analysis of the state of culture to the 2003 draft. Public debates and adoptions at the Council for Culture at the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in the State Council and finally at the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia followed. It is important to stress that the national programme for culture is not a work plan of the Ministry of Culture, but a government document that binds all resources and transforms culture into a government category. The support of all parliamentary groups has added political consensus to the broad consensus reached and this gives this strategic document additional weight and importance. At the same time, this also obliges the legislative and executive authorities to implement the priorities and objectives, as well as to monitor and evaluate its effects, as the Government of Parliament is required to submit a report on the implementation of the national cultural programme by June, as required by the law on the exercise of public interest in culture in its Article 13. Since the National Programme for Culture is a strategic document of the development planning of cultural policy, as it is adopted for a period of four years, including long-term guidelines that go beyond this period, and because the Government is responsible for its implementation, I ask you: When will you prepare a report on the implementation of the National Programme for Culture in the past year, assessing the results and possible proposals for amendments and additions? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u84	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u85	Thank you so much for asking. The Ministry of Culture is therefore constantly monitoring the implementation of the resolution on the national programme for culture, which it recognises as a national programme for culture, which, as has been said, was adopted by the National Assembly on 2 February of the previous year. In particular, as part of the preparation of the 2004 budget implementation reports and budgets for the next two years, 2006 and 2007, it has so far collected all the key elements for the 2004-2007 report on the implementation of the national programme for culture. At the same time as its priority this year, the Ministry is also preparing an analysis on the implementation of the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture, part of which is the determination of the appropriateness of the national programme for culture as a mechanism for the strategic functioning of cultural policy. This, of course, opens up a whole range of issues and this complexity of all these relationships and, in view of the desire to fully address the issues facing the Ministry of Culture in this regard, will be the State Assembly, pardon, the Ministry of Culture will prepare a report on the implementation of the resolution on the 2004 National Programme for Culture. At the same time, it will prepare an analysis of the law on the exercise of public interest in the field of culture and in this analysis also make certain proposals for amending the text, i.e. with regard to the law on the exercise of public interest in culture, both of which - a report, analysis and any amendments to the law on the exercise of public interest in culture, because it seems to us that this is closely related - we will prepare by the end of the year.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u86	Thank you, Minister. Does he want a full answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u87	Thank you for your answer, Mr. Secretary. By the time you took office and represented yourself on the committee, you had already announced that you had some different views or ideas in the coalition contract as to what your government and your ministry should have as a priority in the cultural policy strategy. I have made the question very clear because, for now, the law in force obliges you to report by June. And since, in my previous question, where I asked you after the call for the cultural capital of Europe, some views are just such that it shows that by what the law has asked you to do, I would still like to ask you: Does this also mean a change in the law on public interest for culture in Article 13, where you intend to deprive Parliament of the possibility of judging whether cultural policy has been linked in the past year to the provisions imposed by the strategic document, or do you intend to leave this alone at government level? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u88	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u89	Thank you very much for the additional question. So, as regards the fact that I had some different views on this strategy, I had them in particular as regards the fact that more than 40 priorities are set out in this national programme. Somehow I think it's becoming more and more clear. [[and we will also present this in our report at the end of the year]] that there can be no more than 40 priorities that we would all realize at the same time. I think it was either a separation or a definition of what is now a priority, what are the foundations, which must in themselves be, and the creation of a foundation. Thus, with regard to the law on the exercise of public interest in the field of culture, there are also certain concerns that, so to speak, we will say, probably in the form of a proposal for amendments and the addition of this law. And like I said, at the end of the year, we'll present it.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u90	Thank you, Minister. Mr Franz Jazbec will ask the Minister of Transport and the Minister of Finance a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Minister of Transport! After the implementation of the Law on Local Self-Government in 1995, there was a problem of co-financing of maintenance of railway crossings on local and non-tegrated municipal roads. The problem is that the parameters under the law on the financing of municipalities with railway crossings do not recognise additional funds for these purposes. In article 29 of the Railway Safety Act, we wrote that maintenance of railway crossings is the burden of the owner of railway infrastructure. At that time, the competent Minister of Transport and all of them did not comply with Article 29 of the Law. In fact, the problem has only been solved since 1.1.2005, and Slovenian railways have been persecuting municipalities, some for more than ten years. Very little or nothing is what Slovenian railways are able to achieve in their favour in court. During the spring months of this year, there were so many hearings at the Celje Court of Justice on this issue that the lawyer representing Slovenian Railways earned some more than 700 000 tolars in one morning! However, according to the amounts sued, at least that amount was earned by the lawyers who represented the individual congregations at the hearings that same day. In view of all the activities of all previous and now you, Mr. Minister, and the fact that the municipalities, when they go to the Constitutional Court, will undoubtedly get the dispute, I ask you and the Minister of Finance: Would it not be more appropriate to provide in the 2006 budget for compensation to railways if they actually had a deficit in the accounts presented for all past periods - it is not clear that these items actually show a deficit - rather than that the State via the Slovenian Railways is effectively prosecuting the municipality and thus burdening the already overburdened courts? All of this takes place in the ridicule of democracy on the shoulders of taxpayer money. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u92	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Since Dr Andre Bajuk is not here, he apologized, only Mr Christmas, Minister of Transport, will answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u93	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! Thank you for asking first. Of course, I would not repeat all the problems that you state and know well, and the Ministry of Transport also wants to solve them. Last but not least, as mentioned in this year's 1.1, we have arranged in some way this formal legal relationship in the context of these relations that have been exposed. I must point out that everything relates to the period before 1.1.2005, to the judicial proceedings which have begun before that date and which continue. Since the judgments in the various courts have been decided in favour and others to the detriment of the claimant, as you yourself state budget for 2006, in the starting points of preparation for it, we have proposed to the user, namely, the Ministry of Finance, under area 06, local self-government, under the main programme 0602, general transfers to the municipalities, sub-programme 0602, 1601, supplementary funds to the municipalities to change the title of item 5466 by saying: "covering the loss of their own revenue of the municipalities and obligations under judicial decisions." This proposal, in the preparation phase of the 2006 State budget, estimated at SIT 852 million, would provide funding to municipalities for the settlement of obligations arising from judicial decisions. This would also ensure that only those obligations which the court would recognise as justified would be settled. I must say, unfortunately, that the proposal would not have been adopted and the state budget for 2006 is on its way to the National Assembly. Last but not least, the fact that, in previous discussions with the municipalities, it was said that the matter could be settled in a similar manner, as already mentioned, in the transitional provisions of the proposal for a law and to supplement the law on railway safety, as announced in 2005, due to the implementation of the EU acquis into the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia. This amendment is now being prepared and it is possible to incorporate a specific article with this content. We'll probably do that, too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u94	Thank you, Minister. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u95	Thank you very much. I'm afraid that even in this part that you've now explained and you're offering it as an alternative, there's going to be a problem, because no law retroactively will be able to regulate things 10 years ago.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u96	Thank you. Mr. Minister, would you like to respond?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u97	In any case, this legal mess will also need to be regulated in some way. And we will try to do so after correcting this law that I have spoken of. It is true that retroactively backward does not usually go, but as I have predicted, and in the transitional provisions this is permissible.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u98	Thank you. Mr Rudolf Moge will raise the question of a letter to the Minister for Education and Sport, Dr Beast. Here you go, Mr. Rudy.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u99	Thank you very much, Madam Minister, three ministers, colleagues and colleagues, very nice greetings. When the Government of the Republic of Slovenia hosted Maribor, two binding promises were made. First, he gave the prime minister, Mr. Janez Janša, when comparing Slovenia with a doughnut that has marmalade only in the middle and he promised that his government would ensure that certain works and offices are transferred from the state administration to Maribor and other cities in Slovenia. The second bright promise, however, was the promise of the Minister of the Lord, Dr. Beast, who cut the Gordy knot of the network of secondary schools in Maribor by placing the facilities on the Vrban Road of the Roman Catholic Church back - then this agreement was also concluded - and he promised the further development of the Maribor secondary education in this direction, even in the long run, and we failed to ensure a quality network of secondary schools in Maribor. We know that for a long time this knot has not been resolved, we know the problems of the guest school, the "versus" commercial school, the "versus" commercial school, or the technical college - the pardon of the secondary technical school - the technical school to somehow divide into the fifth grade of Smetana, the rest is supposed to go to Tesno. By returning the facility to Vrbanski, it certainly means that the archdiocese classical high school will go to the premises in Vrbanski and thus relax the premises in Tezne. As this is very welcome to see this place in the northeastern part of the country dispersed, but we do not have any information on this, at least not in the National Assembly, how this thing is happening, so the Minister kindly asks you and asks: How much budget have you provided for the development of the network of secondary schools for 2006 and 2007. I do not mean to actually assure here, but how much you planned in preparation for the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for these two years. And where do you plan to move individual schools in Maribor? I thank you in advance for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u100	Thank you. Mr. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u101	Mr President, honourable Member, thank you very much for the question and for the concern you share with me for the network of the schools in Maribor. Indeed, on our last visit to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in Maribor, we have also made a thorough effort to address this problem, which you can see for yourself has been facing Maribor or the Maribor area for several years. At that time, we have actually promised to try some of the interventions of this network, to spin this wheel and to save the Moroccan secondary school or to enable it to develop at least normally. It is true, as you said at the end, that Tezno is becoming a very good center, around which other high schools will try to be saved. How and what, I've answered this place once or twice. Whether we will provide funds may be a premature issue for some day, because the budget has not yet been adopted, but it has been planned so that our intention or promise on this visit to the government in Maribor could be implemented. Some of the moves are also linked to the Ministry of Higher Education, where, according to my information, they were able to provide funding for the university during the coordination of the 2006 and 2007 budgets. This will also make it easier for us to solve the spatial problem in our sector. The funds are provided, some with existing NRPs and some under heading 6318 - investment maintenance in secondary education. It's just a couple of interventions in the school space. You know, this is a biotech school in Maribor where former agricultural and agricultural mechanisms have merged. At Vinarski 14 you will need certain investment interventions, also at Maribor High School of Commerce, at Maribor High School of Guests and Tourism. Then mention is made of the Thesis where site arrangements are envisaged for the needs of technical programmes [[This is about Maribor High School of Engineering and Business]] And then there's III. Maribor High School, where we will finally be able to invest with the denationalisation process. There is also an opportunity to invest in Maribor High School of Music and Ballet, while it is also provided in regular NRPs with adaptation for Maribor High School of Economics and adaptation II. Maribor High School. Since, at the time of the budget planning for 2006 and 2007, the entire documentation was not prepared, except for the last two other investment interventions, I am sure that we will complete these procedures in early October. These funds are planned under heading 6318, investments and investment maintenance in secondary education. I am so sure that what was promised in Maribor on the last visit to the government will be realized in the coming years. More specifically, in Maribor in 2006 this item will be available from 1.15, 2007 from 1.8, and in 2008 it is expected to provide an additional 1.2 billion.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u102	Thank you, Dr. Beast. Mr. Mogue, would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u103	Thank you very much for this answer, which has made this area quite clear, but I would like to ask you the following. For secondary economic school it is clear that you should have been built a long time ago, that you also put in the programme for II. high school - this thing is in the fundamental development of education programmes. For the first year of high school [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] So you've included high school music and ballet school in your new third grade. Where's that money gonna go? Will this go beyond the quota provided for by the law, or is this included in the law? Then we should change the law in a certain way. I'd like to ask you another question. So this biotech high school where agricultural machinery schools and high school have merged, is that what you're going to build on, if I understand? Please, if you can explain to me how this is going to work, because the law you mentioned earlier provides for about 1 billion schools for the school network, and for the secondary agricultural school, which is now no longer, there are 945 million projects, which is a large enough contribution to solve these problems. At the same time, I'd like to ask you. When the bishop's classic was on Tezne, the state didn't ask her for any rent. The question is now: Will the secondary agricultural school now have to pay a certain rent - how much? And: When you signed an agreement, did you have to pay a certain amount of compensation to the Church, which is the beneficiary of this property and which it will receive back? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u104	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u105	Thank you very much. This last one was not the subject of this agreement or contract, so I cannot answer this question. However, I would just like to clarify more precisely the expenditure for the Maribor school network, where the above mentioned item, which I mentioned earlier, is dedicated to or envisaged for 2006 for SIT 900 million, for 2007 900 million SIT and it would be necessary to provide additional 500 million Slovenian tolars in 2008. In Maribor, apart from the economic school, it is not a new investment, it is more or less about the adaptation and maintenance of existing facilities, and we will make appropriate adjustments to all documentation that is also necessary and all legal bases. For Maribor High School of Economics this year and 2006 we anticipate about 685 million Slovenian tolars, so this is a big investment and almost such an amount for 2007, while some completion of this investment remains in 2008. In II. We also intend to invest quite a lot of financial resources in the year 2006, 2007.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u106	Thank you, Minister. Mr Miran Potrč will ask the Minister of Public Administration, Dr Virant. Here you go, Mr. Potsch.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u107	Minister Virant, distinguished ministers, colleagues and colleagues. The Public Sector Wage Scheme Act was adopted after many years of preparation with high expectations in 2002. The government has promised to carry out the process of determining visible and appropriate salaries in the public sector. Regrettably, the previous government has extended the implementation of the law in order to find acceptable trade union outlets. However, I fear that, similarly, without formal decisions, this government's mandate also takes place. The wage-setting process for public sector employees has not yet been seriously initiated, as it is necessary to first establish the appropriate relationship between directors' salaries, which is currently in progress. And this process of classification into wage classes for directors in the public sector should be close to the final stage in view of the regulation adopted and the deadlines set out therein. In view of the importance of this task, which could create the basis for an orderly pay system and an acceptable pay relationship, because I am aware of the difficulty and complexity of this task, because there are several thousand different comparable, as well as inadequately rewarded people, and because there are many questions and even loud objections to this process, Minister, I ask you: Will the process of classification into wage classes, including the consent procedure, be possible to end as provided for in the Regulation, that is, 1.1. 2006? Will new wage relations then take effect and thus create a condition for other lower employment ratios in the public sector to be regulated? Or do you foresee any major problems along this route, and how do you plan to solve them? Will this fulfill the promises you made on appointment to ensure order in the salaries of directors as soon as possible, their visibility and their compliance with the salaries of ministers? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u108	Thank you, Mr. Run. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u109	Thank you so much for asking. The government is working intensively on wage regulation in the public sector. Our strategy on the Roadmap, which is already enshrined in the Coalition Treaty, is that we have set ourselves the goal of first making order in the public sector's top wage, that is, in the case of officials and directors. That's for two reasons. First, because there were several anomalies in the wage segment, which were also known to the public through the data published by the AIPES. Secondly, that these salaries, i.e. executive and functional salaries, would represent some kind of anchor or some kind of guide for the continuation of collective bargaining, for the conclusion of a collective contract for the public sector. The government would also like to give a signal by regulating these salaries in collective negotiations that wage reform must be financially sustainable, particularly at the present sensitive moment before the euro is taken over. We have taken the lead in proposing an amendment to the Public Sector Wages Act, which has also been adopted in the National Assembly, which sets provisional limits for the maximum payments of directors' salaries actually in force since 1.7.years ago. Thus, this intervention regime is in force and thus the salaries of directors in the public sector and public institutions, public funds, public agencies and public agencies are legally limited, thus preventing excesses from taking place since 1.7 this year. At the same time, we have also promised that we will fully manage the directors' salaries in the public sector by the end of the year. In fact, on 28 July the government adopted a regulation on the salaries of directors in the public sector, the essence of which is a transparent regulation of directors' salaries. Salaries are determined by classification in the wage class or in the range of wage classes. The supplements are drastically limited or reduced, so to speak, they are minimal. There are also strict conditions for the award of annual awards, which was also one of the reasons for excess in the past. The Regulation has therefore been adopted and its implementation by means of a transitional provision is foreseen for 1.1 next year, as you yourself have already said. What should be done, in fact, before the date of application? It is necessary to include directors of public institutions, public agencies, public funds and other directors in the public sector within the ranges of wage classes established by the Regulation. So it's about determining the pay grade within these ranges. The deadline provided for by the Regulation is as follows: until the 15.10. classification, either by the ministerial or municipal councils, by 15.11. where necessary, of the ministers' consent to these classifications, and then 1.1.2006. In fact, it is an expert and technically very demanding and complex project. In fact, there are some objections and comments. I'm not going to say to the Priory that all objections are unfounded. It is quite possible that we will find that some pay grade should be corrected. Therefore, there is a possibility that in October, in certain segments of certain fines, the regulation will still be rectified. After the work has been done so far, I'd say he's running according to plan. It is said that we are still sticking to deadline 1.1.2006. In the event of major problems, technical problems or the need for further coordination, we will give priority to the quality of this Regulation before its rapid implementation. The legal deadline for the start of the new system for directors is 1.3.2006. The law says no later than 1.3. We're a little ahead of schedule with the regulation. This room remains as a reserve, but we are working on it and is currently on track to catch the 1.1.2006 deadline. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u110	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Would you like another word, Mr. Potsch?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u111	Thank you very much. I sincerely want the operation or the mission to succeed. I accept your conclusion that things are running and your assessment that some problems may also arise. I want as few as possible. However, if you could further explain to me: If we can do this with 1.1 or 1.3, then how would it go later and in what time frame for all others in the public sector? We both know there's a lot of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u113	Thank you very much. One part of the regulation of the wage system in the public sector is adopted after 2002 in the hands of the Government and the National Assembly. It's an arrangement for officials' salaries. The decision on the salaries of officials is prepared and will be dealt with briefly by the government. The other pay segment, however, is the directors. Their wages are governed by the government's regulation. This part, which can be arranged by the government itself and does not need the union's consent, is not regulated in the collective agreement, but will be settled as soon as possible, i.e. within the time limits I am talking about: 1.1.2006 or at the latest 1.3.2006. In order to implement the new system of functional salaries, we have found that even smaller legal changes are needed, which we have also sent to coordinate with the representative public sector unions. If I draw the line, by 1.3. next year, according to our plan, the salary system for officials and directors will enter into force and become applicable. For the rest of the public servants, there are about 155,000, and of course the government is this moment for the negotiating table. The implementation of the new wage system depends on when a collective agreement for the public sector is concluded. And this requires the will of both sides. According to the offers made on both sides, we are still significantly different from each other in terms of a variance of over 100 billion tolars. The position of the government is quite clear. During a sensitive period, especially in 2006 and 2007, we cannot afford a significant increase in the mass of public sector wage funds. That's how the negotiations go on. They're very dynamic. Negotiations for the public sector collective agreement are ongoing. In the meantime, we are also negotiating some other issues, but now we are also talking about the issue of wage harmonisation in view of inflation in the coming year, the amendment of the law on the public sector's wage system, and what other issue is open. This is how these negotiations are actually very complex. And when wage reform is carried out in social dialogue, as we intend to do, it is not unusual if it takes a longer period of time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Question sent to the Minister for Health of Magi. Bručanu will be appointed by Mrs Maria Pozsonec. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u115	Thank you very much, Mr. President. All in attendance have a nice greeting! I would like to ask Dr. Andre Bručan the following question. Almost daily warning of the world’s health organization about the fear - inspiring bird flu is a source of concern. The extent of this disease may also require a million victims. Some neighbouring countries have already developed a vaccine against this disease. It is true that the vaccine only works against one type of virus, which is said to be at least 450. I wonder: Is there any activity in Slovenia to prevent this disease? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u116	Please, Mr. Secretary. Mrs. Possonchev, if you'll turn it off, please. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u117	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much for asking the question. However, I would like to take this opportunity to clarify more fully the complexity of the problem posed by avian influenza and the risk of a new virus outbreak in humans. Avian influenza is an infectious disease of animals, especially birds caused by viruses. Recently, one type of virus called M5H1 is the main cause of concern. Experience with the outbreak of poultry disease in Asia and other countries, particularly in Russia, shows that the virus has the ability to transmit to humans and can cause a serious disease with high mortality. In fact, such a transfer, as I now describe it, is relatively rare. Of course, experts all over the world point to the possibility of developing a completely new flu virus that would somehow agree with the combination of both viruses and could then be transmitted from man to man. Of course, people would not be resistant to such a new virus and there would be a favourable situation for large-scale epidemics, pandemics and so on, as they had been present in the years 18, 19, later 57 and 68 of the previous century. Each case of avian influenza is very important because it can also mean the possibility of a new virus, and therefore all the measures taken worldwide in this regard are important. The most important measure to prevent the spread of disease among birds is the rapid elimination of infected birds and infection of exposed birds and the appropriate removal of the poultry and quarantine. Most Member States have already adopted EU measures to prevent the spread of disease. It also includes the prohibition of the import and transport of livestock, poultry from those countries. Among them is Slovenia. Experts estimate that the current possibility of outbreaks of avian influenza in EU Member States and Slovenia is currently low. In Slovenia, the veterinary administration is primarily responsible for the implementation of preventive measures, in cooperation with the Ministry of Health. In the case of outbreaks of avian influenza, the veterinary administration has prepared a plan of measures which has already been verified at one of the simulation exercises this year. As in other European countries at the Ministry of Health, we are coordinating the preparation of a plan for preparedness for the flu pandemic. The proposal for a plan is currently being coordinated and complemented by a range of experts between different sectors and resources. The proposal for a flu pandemic preparedness plan contains a framework for the operation of all competent services and institutions in Slovenia. Its purpose is to first set up a framework for controlling the flu pandemic in Slovenia with clear recommendations for all those who need to develop their operational plans in order to be willing to do so. How many people will "get sick in the future", under the terms, in the so-called pandemic, what the disease will be like, whose groups will have the greatest risk for the difficult course of disease and complications, cannot be reliably predicted. The aim of experts and health authorities is to detect and limit the possible outbreak of a disease that would occur in the future and cause a new virus in order to detect and limit it as soon as possible, in particular by preparing an effective and safe vaccine. The development of this vaccine and then the preparation will require a certain period of time in any case. In addition to these public health measures implemented in Slovenia, certain antiviral medicines are among the effective means to limit the spread of outbreaks in the first phase. We cannot know for sure or to what extent these medicines will be effective until the emergence of the new virus itself. This depends mainly on the properties of the new virus. Despite all the unknowns, Slovenia, like all other countries in Europe, has decided to purchase stocks of these antiviral medicinal products and is already carrying out appropriate procurement procedures. I must say that there are currently only three countries in Europe with complete stock, while most countries, including Slovenia, will not be stocked until the beginning of next year or next year. At the same time, I would like to say that Slovenia is already provided for the normal signs of influenza. Finally, I would like to point out that there is a very large number of activities in relation to the issue of avian influenza and the preparedness for a possible flu pandemic at EU and WHO level, which we are also participating in in Slovenia. The last meeting in Brussels was held on 22.9.2005, at which they stressed the importance of mutual coordination and cooperation between the competent services and the need for timely and open public information. In Slovenia, we are somehow familiar with this issue, and we have already implemented a number of measures in this regard at the same time.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u118	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Would you like an additional explanation?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u119	No, no, no. Thank you very much for your comprehensive response.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Mr Marko Pavliha will put the question to the Minister for Transport Mags. Christmas. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u121	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President! The Honourable Parliament and the Council of Ministers! The Minister of Transport, I am sure, knows that Slovenian railways have "made" a 1.23 billion tolar loss by the end of this July. One year ago, they recorded 508 million tolars of net profit at the same time. In particular, there will be data, a negative result of the train to parade horse, freight transport, which amounted to 447 million tolars of loss at the end of this July and generated 1.09 billion tolars of profit at the same time last year. So data indicating that the crisis not only continues in the rail sector, but also deepens. So what exactly has the ministry done in the last year to bring the crisis to a halt or at least a little? What will it do to remedy the ongoing holding business? How will it establish the actual operation of a holding company that made its way through last year at least on paper, but all three companies that are united under the same roof: passenger transport, freight transport and infrastructure do not live. I wonder: How will he explain to both the electorate and the EU authorities or justify the decision to reunite these three holding structures into one company if the directives do not allow it as well? I wonder: When can we get a report on the Transport Committee of the working group dealing with this and, apparently, the work, according to the Secretary of State, Dr. Verlic, has been completed for the month of April and we still have no reports? I wonder: When will we finally get the material to be prepared by the Ministry and the Agency so that we can finally have a public debate on the railway crisis on the Transport Committee? May I remind you here of your promise to our dear Member Happy Friend on June 6, 2005. You said you didn't want to delay by solving the situation. That is why my answer: When will we receive this material on the committee so that we can finally have a discussion, for there is still work to be done? Finally, this is linked to your proposal for a transport policy, which, of course, has already been put into the parliamentary procedure. Thank you very much in advance for your explanations and, of course, for the material sent as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u122	Thank you very much. You have the floor, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u123	Thank you so much for saying that. In order to capture the integrity of the problem and to highlight the individual claims made by Professor Dr Mark Pavlih in the introduction of the questions, I certainly want to argue this set first. Due to our competences and our desire to fully resolve the problem of Slovenian railways, we have certainly become thoroughly acquainted with the business results of the Slovenian Railway holding company, both this year and last year. Why last year's result was positive, Mr Pavliha certainly knows very well, since he was a Minister of Transport at the time and certainly also knows the problem of the operation of railway infrastructure. Let me warn and present under what conditions last year's balance sheet of the Slovenian Railways holding was positive. In achieving the planned targets in 2003, in particular in the net profit of 254 million tolars, the Supervisory Board, as the owner's representative, notes that such a result was largely due, firstly, to the effects of the previous Government's measures in the area of financial and human resources restructuring under the Business Recovery Act, estimated at EUR 1 billion in 2003, amounting to EUR 879 million, in particular to 35 billion of state debt rescheduling guarantees, followed by the effects of the recapitalisation of EUR 5 billion and up to EUR 5 billion in debt for the purchase of passenger trains, thirdly, the realised revenues from the sale of assets, land, housing and other facilities, driving assets and other equipment with net effect of EUR 873 million, and so on, last but not least, lower investments from the necessary and planned maintenance of assets in the amount of 395 million tollars, higher and higher cash. Without these effects, Slovenian railways would operate with a negative result of 2.8 billion tolars in 2004. Of course, I agree with the observation made by Professor Mark Pavliha in the second part, in which he notes that railway infrastructure is in very poor condition. Perhaps just for example: From 1998 to 2004, you should restore more than 350 kilometers of tracks, and you are, even under your ministry, only 81 kilometers. So we're already at the beginning at least five years behind. This is also why infrastructure is in very poor condition, so in order to ensure security we need to introduce slow driving, closures and reduce axle pressure. This, of course, affects the poor permeability of the lines and, as a result, also the poorer business outcome. Following the 2004 annual report, we found that a multi-annual trend of underinvestment in the maintenance and development of public rail infrastructure continued in 2004. In 2004, for example, the actual maintenance costs of 3.5 billion tolars were lower than in 1999, which is reflected in its poor functional skills and the negative impact on rail transport. This is also confirmed by indicators in 2004 compared to the previous year. I could refer here to a set of data which I will then, of course, present on the Transport Committee. As a result, the deterioration of the infrastructure situation also has an impact on the reduction of the competitiveness of rail transport and on the necessary infrastructure conditions for the implementation of the planned growth rates of the volume of work in passenger and freight transport. As a result, the delays of passenger trains from 2.5 to 4.5 minutes per 100 train kilometres and the delays of freight trains from 33.3 to 57 whole minutes per 100 train kilometres increase in 2005. The poor state of public railway infrastructure is also due to inadequate and irrational regulation in the Rail Transport Act, which identifies the position of the public railway agency as the operator and railway as the authorised public railway infrastructure manager and the related fragmentation of the professional capacity of non-supplying European Structural Funds due to the unprepared documentation for key development projects by the Railway Agency. The direct impact on business also had a decrease in the number of employees, which also resulted in the need to tackle certain structural imbalances or to address the lack of certain profiles in the enforcement activity in 2005. The situation in terms of providing driving resources is deteriorating, which is also the result of underinvestment in maintenance and development, so all necessary measures will have to be taken in the future to improve the situation in this area and the conditions for the implementation of planned growth rates will have to be made possible in the long term. What exactly did we do? Very much. We are preparing a series of amendments to the relevant legislation. Since my time is limited, I apologize, then I will probably try to give some other answers to the questions that have already been raised. The Ministry of Transport or the Government may act through its powers because the question of jurisdiction is how to manage the business in some way, the current business of the Slovenian Railway Holding Company. The Supervisory Board [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] The Slovenian Railway holding company has already adopted a series of measures to review the actual situation of the company's past and current operations. [[...]] So in short, the material that was mentioned is, I can say, in the final phase [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u124	Time's running out. Thank you very much. Mr. Pavliha, would you like to ask a further question?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u125	Thank you very much. I'll make it easier for the minister. That's what time rules are now. Just answer the following short questions. First time. Is it true that you want three independent companies to reunite into a single, independent economic society? Another time. What about the report of the working group I was talking about, which should also examine this area and prepare a reorganisation analysis or a proposal for new rules? And the third time. When, at least approximately, within a month or two, can we expect this material on the Transport Committee so that we will not delay the darkness again with this, so obnoxiously and in the sky? Thank you again for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u126	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u127	Thank you very much. On 27 May 2004, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, as co-founder of the Slovenian Railway Holding Company, issued an agreement on the division and consent to the acts establishing new companies. On the basis of those agreements, the management of the Slovenian Railway Holding Company, as the founder of the new companies on 27 May 2004, adopted conclusions or acts establishing these companies. These three companies were also registered in the Court Register of Slovenske Slovenske železnice - passenger transport, infrastructure and freight transport. Once these companies have been established, financial recovery and restructuring should be initiated, thus allowing the operation of subsidiaries to begin. It turned out that this was the wrong way, so we are preparing amendments to the relevant legislation, preparing appropriate measures or amendments in terms of legislation that will ensure the human, financial, economic and technological rehabilitation of the system and also in the vision of continuing to operate well on Slovenian railways. From a human resources perspective, the most important negative consequences are the need for a greater number of operators and the reduced flexibility of the implementation of the human resources policy, and from a financial point of view it is necessary to mention, in particular, the difficulty of ensuring the capital adequacy of individual companies, while from a technological point of view it is indisputable that [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] companies ensure the maximum possible safety of rail transport and, of course, we are also preparing appropriate adjustments to the relevant legislation in accordance with EU directives. My answer is that this material is ready for discussion at the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or at the Economic College of the Prime Minister and then at the Government and then at the Transport Committee itself. I think it's really possible to get it under the roof in October and then get it into the procedure for discussion in the National Assembly in November.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Mr Boštjan Zagorac will raise the question to the Minister of Justice, Dr Sturm. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u129	Thank you, for your word. Your Honors are here! I am interested, and to this end, I also ask the Minister of Justice: What is the government's strategy in resolving the judicial backlogs and the problems that arise in the courts in the Republic of Slovenia? The fact is that backlogs in the Republic of Slovenia have been emerging since 1991 and that despite some of the receptions that the previous government and the current government have proposed to this national assembly, they are not shrinking. In support of this fact, I will also give information on the latest statistics. Judicial backlogs in higher courts increased by 3.4% and in district courts by 0.3%. This segment of the judicial backlog or the problems in the courts would somehow be divided into three chapters. First time. About the judicial backlogs, which I have already said are not shrinking, but are increasing, and also, perhaps, the abolition that you have proposed, at least in our belief, the Slovenian National Party, as a capture for the reduction of judicial backlogs, has not achieved its impact. It has caused what we have already pointed out to be an inequality before the law. Some people had to pay for some crimes, some others didn't. I hope that the next case will not be the extension of the abolition to any other crimes or other as an alternative to the government to reduce judicial backlogs. The second matter I have to mention when we talk about courts is certainly unsolved cases. In Slovenia we know, I will say, quite a number of reverberating unsolved cases. If I go in line. We all remember the Red Cross affair, where no one has ever been brought to justice. It's supposed to be published even, I hope you'll confirm it or deny it, some secret court ruling that ends the prosecution of suspects. The case of colleague Petka, where the case is again unresolved, and some more could be listed. The question is how many unsolved cases are such that they are not receptive enough to see the light of the public. Since time is on my mind, the third segment of the problems in the courts is the trial within a reasonable time. And I'm going to back him up with one very specific case. One gentleman, a citizen, not so bold as to appear in the media, brought an action before the Court of First Instance on 14/12 2000. The procedure before the court followed and the last document requested and received by the court was 24.6.2004. We are today in the ninth month of 2005. And at the end of this letter it says that the court has not yet ruled on it. Isn't the right of every citizen within a reasonable period of time? I am interested in the government's strategy to solve these problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u131	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Thank you, too, for the question raised by the honourable Member. In fact, the issue of judicial backlogs is so important and weighty that it is right to treat it more than once as a question of procedure. I have already replied to you on 31 March of this year about the essential segments of the Government's efforts to resolve this problem. Let me add some additional explanations to this answer today. In 2006, the judiciary will also carry out a project on the abolition of judicial arrears, the so-called Hercules programme. Any amendments to the law on enforcement and insurance in the coming year, which we are preparing, should in particular speed up the enforcement procedures of the judgments. Among other things, a reduction or simplification of possible remedies would be introduced in the enforcement procedure and a provision would be made for an increase in the number of executives. Those measures would help to speed up the resolution of judicial backlogs in the field of enforcement, which today accounts for approximately half of all judicial backlogs. We are also preparing to set up a specific working group, with a view to eliminating inconsistencies in the selection and processing of statistics on the judiciary and in order to make more effective use of these. We are also preparing arrangements for the appointment of judges and state prosecutors, which would be uniform and comparable to similar professions. In addition, we are also preparing a more stimulating way of awarding judges, simply according to the principle of a multi-judgmentary solution, it is also entitled to a reward for an increased amount of work. It must also be a very important segment to provide the necessary spatial conditions for the work of the courts. Many operate in extremely difficult conditions and do not have enough debate halls. But those who are are unfit for work. Therefore, the spatial development strategy foresees a substantial increase in the capacity of the courts and also adequate equipment with new additional debate halls. Last but not least, we are preparing a change in the system of taxiing court fees in a comparable way, for example, by taxiing in Germany, which would also deter some of the people in civil disputes from entering judicial protection. Finally, as I mentioned in my reply in March, we also anticipate moving to a system of court funding, depending on how many cases they solve. It is true, however, that this is a project that requires a certain period of time, so we are counting on it to run in 2008. The funding of the courts in this case would depend on the number of cases resolved in the current calendar year. In the end, there's a trial within a reasonable time. I agree with your warning. We also receive similar signals from the European Court of Human Rights. It will certainly be necessary to make a substantial change by establishing a new judicial mechanism within the judiciary, which, like in some other countries, would also decide to violate due to a slow trial or because the courts are not on trial within a reasonable time. However, I must say quite firmly that the resolution of the spatial strategy is, of course, crucial in solving the entire problem of judicial backlogs, which began with reckless and poorly implemented [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] Court of Justice 10 years ago.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Would you like some extra?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u133	Thank you for saying that again. I'm glad you remember my question and your answer from March of this year. I would like to tell you that I also asked you in writing on this subject, even before March, and I have also identified there myself, as well as you in your reply that some technical matters have not been provided for the better performance of the judicial service. However, I am not in the account or I cannot believe that we have found together that the work of judges in the Republic of Slovenia is bad. We've got backlogs, we've got unsolved cases, so we've got huge, irrationally huge cases. In response, you have indicated that it is one of the government's wishes and that it will reduce the backlogs of judges already privileged to have a permanent term as one branch of government in this country, because no one else has such a permanent mandate as the judges have, you will reward them with higher salaries, you will give them more resources, you will give them more money for their misdemeanour. It's bad enough that someone gets more money because they're doing bad things or they're not working at all. It is our belief that the permanent mandate is still the one that has the most impact on the work of judges. And the permanent term is one that judges can hide behind today in their work. Mr. Secretary, one more question. The unresolved cases, we have found together, are very large for a country like the Republic of Slovenia. People who have been in prison for a few months, some for years, due to lengthy judicial proceedings in prisons or detentions, will likely require some compensation. I would like to ask: How much money do you count as Minister of Justice will the state only use to repay the injustices that have taken place in these people's custody? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u134	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u135	Thank you, too, for this supplementary question. To begin with, however, the judicial backlog in the Republic of Slovenia is decreasing. In the past year, they decreased by 5% in global terms. I do not accept a flat-rate assessment of the bad work of judges and that judges work too little. Such matters must always be clarified. Let me also say, among other things, that the belief that judges are well paid for their work is wrong. In the District Courts it is very difficult to obtain candidates for the jobs awarded at all; there are no candidates. It should also be said that wages are relatively low in the District Courts and it is difficult to obtain good candidates, they are not available. The calls are repeated; there is also a very large fluctuation in the District Courts, in the First Instance Courts. All of this shows that this judge's profession is not attractive. The second question of the honourable Member was also about the termination of a permanent judicial mandate. The abolition of a permanent judicial mandate to reduce judicial backlogs has no direct effect. The permanent term of office is one of the guarantees for the independence of the judge and is currently a constitutional category. Let me add that the public sometimes mistakenly thinks that judges, because they have a permanent mandate, are untouchable and that, irrespective of their mistakes, they always belong to the service for an indefinite period of time. This, of course, is not entirely true, for it is also possible for a judge to be deprived of his mandate because of his poor work. It is possible to withdraw the mandate even in two ways: in disciplinary proceedings or for a double negative assessment of the judge's service. In recent years [[We've done the analysis.]] In each calendar year, there have been several such cases, and a significant number of judges have failed to comply with these conditions and have only resigned. So there are also internal control mechanisms that affect the quality of the judge's work.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Procedural question?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u137	Thanks again for the word [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u138	Is this a procedural question?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u139	Yeah.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u140	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u141	Thank you for your word. It seems that this government has faced some serious and difficult issues from the last meeting to the present, like this country, at least given the number of procedural issues [[...]] In accordance with the second paragraph of Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to request that a vote be taken on the general debate on the Minister's response to the question sent because I am not satisfied with the answer. As an explanation, I would like to say that we probably don't read the same magazines, but we do read the legal practice. And if you look at the statistics, in your last response, you said that the number of judicial delays had decreased, and I have before me information that it had increased by 3.4% to come up with this clearly. Above all, in the general debate, I would like to find out how many times the mandate of the judges has actually been withdrawn from 1991 until today, so that we do not remain in the word'something'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u142	Thank you very much. We will decide on this tomorrow, as part of the vote. Mr Anton Kokalj will raise the question to the Minister for the Environment and Space of Mr Podobnik. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u143	Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government. The strategy for the development of Slovenia is based on co-natural sustainable development. In order to successfully implement this strategy, it is essential to seek a balance between human and nature. In recent years there has been much talk about the problem of bears in Slovenia. Apparently, there is an imbalance that has begun to seriously endanger the population mainly in the countryside. Recently, I have been alone and some fellow Members have been alerted to the increasing and dangerous approximation of bears in the area of Cerknica, Loška Valley, Block, New Villages, Rakitna and elsewhere, also in Gorenjska. Bears are so domesticated that they come to urban settlements in the middle of the day and destroy crops. What is worse, though, is that they obviously contribute to making the countryside more empty or people do not hope to return to the countryside to live there or also as recreationals, mushrooms collectors, for example. However, bears pose a particular danger to children. We know that given the situation in Slovenia related to birthity, the countryside is still the one that gives some more children to this country, and it would be very embarrassing if it happened, which is no longer a joke, although you are laughing a little to become a European country known for tearing up a child or seriously hurting a bear. I don't think it's a joke that this is a very serious threat. I therefore ask, Mr Minister: What will you do, within your powers, within the framework of the legal framework, what will you propose if it is necessary to propose at the legislative level or at the level of the government, in order for this problem to begin to be resolved seriously? In recent years, as I said, this problem has been highlighted many times, but the problem is not being resolved. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u144	Thank you very much. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u145	Thank you very much, honourable Member Kokalj. Most likely it was this smile that we exchanged with our colleague Lukačič as a result of the fact that, as of January 1st of this year, as Minister of Environment and Space, I took over this grateful task on the subject that you are asking me about. Otherwise, at the Ministry of Environment and Space, we are aware of all the problems you have mentioned in your question. I'm going to count the nine measures I've already taken, and I'm going to introduce them as Minister. However, if there is any more time, I will briefly present the reasons why, in our view, the bear is getting closer to urban areas. The Forest Office, which is responsible for monitoring the state of the brown bear population in Slovenia, estimated that between 405 and 485 people live in the central area this year. Now to your specific question what we are and what we will do. In accordance with the guidelines set out in the Brown Bear Management Strategy adopted in 2002, this is also in line with the requirements of the European Union in the area of conservation of the brown bear population, for the first time, we have prepared a new and more efficient compensation system, which, through the ARSO and the Institute for Forests, solves all the damage caused. I have specific information. By the end of August, ARSO had dealt with 192 claims for damages and referred to 213 damage events and granted 14 million tolars for the payment of damages after the brown bear. Another time. On my proposal to the Forestry Office, we have provided the necessary additional resources through the rebalancing process to improve and speed up the operation of their operations in this area. The intervention group, and in particular the authorities responsible for the resolution of harmful cases. Third move. We are running a call for 60% co-financing of individual safeguards. The invitation to tender is in the final stages. Fourth time. Before the release is a special publication, 10,000 will be published, explaining the functioning of the compensation system. Fifth. The Institute of Forests successfully completed its Life Project the previous month, which is also co-financed in our Department, which aims to support some conflict prevention measures. The sixth measure, which is very important. At present, we are just before the decision of the Minister for the regular shooting of bears in autumn. This shooting will take place as a priority in the area around the settlements where bears occur frequently. Seven, very important. Nevertheless, the Ministry is currently solving conflict cases, including by allowing exceptional shootings of individual animals. Also in the area of these settlements, which you have mentioned, there have already been several emergency discharge permits issued this year, which is also necessary and necessary in our firm belief, but as a minister I am aware that an exceptional disposal is a result of a previous conflict event, and such measures cannot in themselves become the basis for long-term operation with the bear population. It is precisely on the basis of these conflict events, and especially on the basis of these, that we are working to reduce the number of these. In addition to the range of these measures, we are also planning some accompanying measures to deter bears outside the populated areas. In addition to protecting the type of brown bear, however, we want to protect the inhabitants so that there is no misunderstanding and especially in the area where the bear is located. Step eight. In cooperation with other departments, we will draw up a new action plan for the future short-term period for the implementation of measures to reduce the presence of bears in the vicinity of the populated areas. If I mention at least one: active measures to prevent the growth in the vicinity of larger settlements. 9th Action. The Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of France have very good relations in the field of environment and space. And this week I will meet with Minister for Environment and Sustainable Development Nellia Olin, who will sign an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of France on cooperation for the collection and transfer of brown bears from Slovenia to France, Article 2, "The Government of the Republic of Slovenia commits itself to allow for the capture of five adult or young adult animals before 31 August 2006, of which there are four females in one or more areas agreed by both Parties." I've counted nine measures. I hope you're at least convinced by one of these. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u146	Thank you very much. You want to complete the answer. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Most of your response was about repairing the damage and less about prevention. What I wanted to hear, though, was partly heard in the end that you would export five bears. How many bears are you gonna have to shoot this year? But we'll have to hurry before they go to bed. And I'd like to ask, really, because the fall is here. I think the problem needs to begin to be dealt with radically. I think the number of bears in Slovenia should be reduced. This is the only possible measure that will be effective in the long term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u148	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Another answer to your question. I am still within that time limit given to me by the current regulation, because the time for the nature of the intervention you were talking about is after October 1st, and I will be on time until October 1st, as the Minister has published a regulation on the seizure of specimens of a type of brown bear. The Regulation is thus fully prepared and will also be published in the Official Journal in the coming days. There's just a few more very small details. You will all be familiar with all the questions you are asking here. Of course, one of the very important issues is the number. As we say, we are just before the final decision, together with the experts, that we will also determine this number in accordance with the current strategy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u150	Thank you very much. The question of the question to the Minister of Justice, Dr Sturm, will be raised by Mrs Darja Lovtišar Bebler. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u151	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Mr. Secretary! In 1996 a commission was set up to implement the law on the correction of wrongs, which also requires professional support for its work. This is why a sector for the correction of injustices and national reconciliation should be established within the Ministry of Justice after nine years, where 10 people are to be employed. Of this, it is a matter of five new jobs, where 3 historians and 2 lawyers are to be re-employed. In this regard, please answer the following questions: Why did the Ministry of Justice decide to hire historians after nine years to evaluate, among other things, the alleged new events that are important for achieving national reconciliation? Why did the Ministry not decide to invite existing institutions, such as the Institute for Recent History, the SAZU and similar, to participate, since, as far as I know, the Ministry of Aid has already served? On the other hand, the Minister of Public Administration has consistently argued that the number of employees in the State administration will be decreasing and that the professional work will also be put into practice by external institutions and experts, if necessary. Does not the Ministry also give credence to all existing research institutions that have been engaged in research into war and post-war history since the establishment of their own country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u152	Thank you very much. You have the floor, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u153	Thank you for saying so, Mr President. Thank you, too, for the question raised, honourable Member. In a way, it is unusual that the creation of a sector for the correction of injustices and national law has only occurred after a commission for the correction of injustices has been in operation for many years, which, of course, could not act alone, but worked with the assistance of professional services in the Ministry of Justice. The Commission was assisted by experts from the legislative and sector for justice law and even from the sector for international and European affairs. Somehow, there has been no establishment of a sector for the correction of guilt. With this we are simply correcting, I will say, an organisational disharmony that has taken place at the Ministry and we are normalising the matter in this regard. But it's true that we've made up our minds and hired some historians. The new sector will first of all produce factual data of a historical nature, which will also indirectly allow for an in-depth historical legal analysis of the functioning of the state, particularly the repressive, authorities during the rule of the former political system. The judicial and repressive state authorities were the main contractors, as the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia has repeatedly found, systematic violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms during the previous post-war period. In the case of a legal analysis of the historical documents of the judicial and other state authorities, as well as in the determination of actual data, an interdisciplinary approach is necessary, where it is also important to highlight the historical context of the creation of documents. In doing so, it should be pointed out that such institutions are known by most countries that have experienced such violations of blind rights, such as Germany, Poland, the Czech Republic, Hungary and the Baltic States. With the establishment of the sector, the Ministry intends to contribute to a more related effect of a number of public and private institutions and individuals, who in various ways, by identifying actual historical knowledge, are building the basis for national reconciliation. Despite the efforts of the various institutions, many issues in the field of Slovenian legal history are still unexplored. The sector will work intensively with institutions and individual experts who have already done much work in this area, including with the Institute for Recent History, and who have come to important factual conclusions. There's still a lot of work to be done. As all the achievements of the new sector will be public, this means, for all other institutions, that they will have more and more actual data and their structural analyses that they can use in their work, and therefore the establishment of this sector does not constitute a lack of confidence for existing historical institutions. Last week I signed my own special contract with Director Jako Fischer, Director of the Institute for Recent History, and cooperation with all institutions will continue.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u155	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. As for me personally, it is clear to me that the authoritarian authority after the war has wronged many citizens. However, I believe that justice should do everything in its legal path to correct or eliminate these injustices, to pay appropriate compensation and to rehabilitate innocently. However, instead of seeking to correct these injustices on the basis of legal basis, a certain Ministry of Official Truth or the truth is established in accordance with the will of the current authorities, it is also possible to understand this measure. Apparently, the authorities want to colonize the truth and the historical memory. The correction of injustices is of the utmost importance that the State must pursue only on legal grounds. However, national reconciliation is a political concept that must be accepted in political space not only by all political parties but also by civil society, citizens and citizens. So, national reconciliation cannot be commanded by a government decree, that is to say to everyone. How, then, will this new sector in the Ministry of Justice directly contribute to national reconciliation? I just can't imagine it. Or have we now really set up another organ that's going to do something and we don't know exactly, do we? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u156	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u157	Thank you for your word. Thank you very much, indeed, for this additional question, which allows me to serve with a concrete answer and a topic that this new sector will first and foremost deal with. Last week we had a conversation with representatives of the Jewish community. We were told of a series of serious violations and violent acts that occurred to them during the war and after the war, by the invader and by the then war power. We can't find any information about this from the historical sources. The sector will primarily deal with the investigation of violent acts committed by members of the Jewish community. He's gonna start his job with that. Therefore, I must say that I reject the claims or even the assumptions you have just made in your implementation. I said, for reconciliation it is necessary to find out - the legal correction of injustices is possible when we know what happened. But you see in this particular case we don't know what happened, we're just going to have to figure that out. And so it is in many other cases.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber will ask the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Mr Mag. A little thing. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u159	Thank you for your word. Nice greeting, Mr. Secretary! At the beginning of your term of office, you have also presented as one of your priorities activities to reduce regional disparities, particularly in the level of unemployment. Recently, however, we can monitor both in the media and in everyday practice that businesses are failing in precisely those areas where the possibility of employment is minimal or almost non-existent. This is particularly true of the case of the White Land in the last period where additional forgivenesss are announced. In this context, I would particularly like to draw attention to an area that is partly located in the White Landscape, partly in Kočevsko. It is the Polish Valley near Kolpa, where two plants, Unior Zreče and Comet Metlika, operate, and mainly the textile industry is the one that predicts a reduction in employment in this plant. Of course, this would mean an unprecedented situation in this area and we are not currently aware of the measures, plans that your ministry would try to follow up on these serious problems in the area of job provision or job preservation. I would also like to point out that something like this, as we know, is also happening in Prekmurje. Finally, this is also an extremely demanding process related to the European Union's sugar reform and the problem that can arise in Ormož. If sugar production is discontinued, not only jobs within this company will be threatened, but also throughout the region. When we monitor government visits to Slovenia in individual regions, it can indeed be felt that the government is committed to solving these problems across regions, but, if we follow the assessment that following Prekmurje's visit, the announcement of forgiveness in Concept Optimum that after Rogaška Slatina's visit due to rationalisation was followed by the cancellation of 200 employees in the glassworks, of course we are, or I am, skeptical of the government's visits to the regions where this problem is to be resolved. In 2005, you also reduced funding for an active employment policy. That is why I ask you, Minister, how will you fulfill your promises to reduce regional unemployment disparities? What measures have you taken so far? And of course: What are the concrete results? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u160	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u161	Thank you very much for the question, honourable Member. First of all, I respond to your claim that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has reduced funding for active employment policy programmes for 2005. In the programme or in the plan for this year we have earmarked about 19% more money than was spent in the previous year, the last year when the previous government was. So once again, I think I've been in the media for six times, saying that, of course, it's not true and you need to look at the data. With regard to regional incentives, I reiterate that the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, when adopting an active employment policy programme each year, publishes a decision on the classification of areas, i.e. municipalities or regions with a higher unemployment rate, and then, on the basis of the rules on active employment policy measures, are prioritized in the provision of funds for the resolution of unemployment and the resources allocated to active employment policy measures. This year's decision was also adopted, at the beginning of the year, which made it a priority to draw on funds. In the context of this Decision, the areas to A, B and C are situated, as has been the case in the past. In view of some of the changes that have taken place in recent times, we will, on the basis of the statistics on unemployment - I am expected to issue a new decision on the basis of new data, in order to provide funds to those municipalities, or to local communities, or more - so an area of the institution covering certain local communities - in order to enable them to access these funds as a matter of priority. Otherwise, I can point out that these calls, which we have published last and which mean drawing on European funds, are also based on regional unemployment priorities. However, when individual exposed categories are included, this regional principle cannot be used as a priority. Like hiring people with disabilities. The employment of persons with disabilities is particularly exposed to the category to be taken care of, regardless of the region or municipality in which they live. The Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs aims at 70% of all resources under the Active Employment Policy Programme to implement programmes in the above-average unemployment area. About Murska Sobota. In Murska Sobota, Concept Optimum was provided by the previous government with funds for this investor, but it was clumsy because it did not provide sufficient guarantees in case of infringements. According to our data, there have been alleged violations, but the funds will be very difficult to recover. Therefore, in the case of large sums of financial resources, when we provide for new jobs or other active employment policy programmes, we require a firm guarantee, either a real estate mortgage or a bank guarantee, a bank guarantee. I think I have also answered those additional questions that were not answered in the announcement of your question.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u163	Thanks again for saying that. Of course, I would like to hear much more concrete information than the fact that 70% of all resources are spent on active employment policy in regions where this unemployment is most in the sky. Indeed, the situation in these regions of course does not show optimism or the impact of investing these funds, and I would expect that the response will be significantly more concrete, that the disparities in the regions in unemployment are shrinking and, above all, I want the government to have a programme. As is concrete for Ormož, as I have already said, specifically for the Schengen border, where there will certainly be one of the most exposed areas after the establishment of this regime, there will certainly be a number of regions, especially within Slovenia, which have remained outside the motorway cross, but of course there is not an appropriate specific programme to address unemployment in these areas. That is why I really expect, either in this reply or in the debate on the 2006 and 2007 budget, which I also expected to see more concrete data be truly more tangible in addressing these problems in these most demanding regions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u165	Thank you very much for the additional question. Of course, for much more detailed information on concrete measures in individual regions, this time is not enough to explain everything to you. However, I understand your concern, especially where you are also a Member, that these measures will be implemented to a greater extent. However, it is not only up to the State, including the other entities, to apply for these programmes. And look, you mentioned the White Land. The white landscape, according to current data - at least most of these municipalities belong to areas with a lower unemployment rate, especially the region. And it is precisely because, on the basis of these data, we could not so successfully draw funds from the European funds that we have decided to complement this decision, to change on the basis of statistics, because the situation has changed. I think that we are responding with a rapid response, and we are responding appropriately to this, so that we can also make it easier for these areas, which are suddenly in some troubles, to have access to these funds. Otherwise, when we discuss the budget in Parliament, we will be able to say more. However, specific information can also be obtained from the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs’ website. The Ministry of Labour, as a public institution, has made a great deal of this information available.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u166	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by the Minister of Transport, Master Christmas, Mr Srečko Hvauc. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u167	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings to everyone in the hall! As has already been announced, I will ask the Minister of Transport, Master Janez Bozič, about the Maribor airport. The Maribor airport has a very favourable location. It lies in the immediate vicinity of the fifth and tenth European railway corridor, also near the highway from Kopra via Ljubljana to Austria and the future motorway towards Hungary. At the same time, this summer, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a regulation on a national location plan setting the path of the future Phyrn motorway, also in the immediate vicinity of the airport with a direct diversion. In the vicinity, about 100 kilometers, there are still three larger airports, Brno, airport in Graz and Zagreb, which gives this Maribor airport, as already mentioned, a particularly favourable position. As a result of this, this airport has a lot of development opportunities, not only the airport as such, but also the economy, tourism and more, but in the past these options have not been exploited. More! In 2002, a bankruptcy procedure was even introduced and in this procedure the company received a new owner who faced a problem because relations with the State were not regulated. In particular, as regards the division of property and the use of state infrastructure, runway and other infrastructure elements. For this reason, I would like to ask: What measures have been taken recently in order to ensure the operation of this airport or to improve its position in the last period. Secondly: What measures or what matters are not yet settled and at what stage are they? Ter: When can we expect the relations between the State and the operator to finally be settled and that this airport will be qualified for the intended volume of traffic and for the conditions of operation of the Schengen regime? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u168	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u169	Thank you so much for saying that. Therefore, the Republic of Slovenia has invested a total of 145 million SIT 258 million in the reconstruction of the airport infrastructure, which it undertook in Article 3 of the Treaty on the free transfer of airport infrastructure at the public airport in Maribor - and on certain issues relating to this airport - which the Government concluded with the Maribor municipality in 1998-2003; this does not, of course, include the cost of the renovation of air traffic control facilities. The airport is also connected to the motorway network, with the shortest possible connection. In 2004 to 2006, additional investments are planned at a total of around 724 million tolars. These are budgetary and European funds, but they are unlikely to be fully implemented, which some of the calls for proposals have already failed. Last week, for example, a renewed ILS instrument landing system was used at a total investment value of approximately 264 million tolars. Among other things, we have taken some other measures. For example, we extended the operating time of the airport, then extended the operating permit by two years. The question raised relates to which matters have not yet been successfully resolved or completed and at what stage they are. The key issues to be addressed in the following years are: firstly, the establishment of conditions for operation of the airport under reduced visibility conditions in Category 2, for which a system of light marking of runway take-offs, sensors to detect visibility and take-offs on the runways and to develop and validate the rules for operation of the airport under Category 2 conditions. I would add that we have provided adequate resources for this purpose in the 2006 budget. Secondly, it is an update of groundhandling equipment, i.e. renovation of winter service equipment, replacement of water vehicles and feces vehicles, acquisition of fire rescue equipment, passenger terminal arrangements, roof repair, heating and the like. Therefore, this part is also allocated adequate funds in the coming years, i.e. in the coming year. Thirdly, a redesign of a passenger terminal to meet the so-called Schengen criteria for international border crossing. The first project is largely completed and the second and third are, as I have already mentioned, in the planning phase and also in the years ahead. When can we expect the relations between the state and the operator to be finally settled? I must say that the technical material or text of the draft contract within the state institutions was harmonised and was sent back to the Aerodrome Maribor d.o.o. in the opinion and opinion. 12.9.2005 We were asked by the Maribor Airport to extend the deadline for the preparation of a reply or reasoned counter-proposal. We have not received it yet, but we will continue to coordinate immediately after receiving the response. As regards the European Union's budgetary resources and resources drawn on by the Republic of Slovenia, training or renewal is also under way and the equipment of the Maribor airport is in proportion to the growth of traffic. The problem is that it is necessary to make up for the delay in previous years. However, it is a process of renewal and modernisation in which the Ministry of Transport participates in internal affairs, the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for Civil Aviation, the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the Environment, the Aerodrome Maribor d.o.o., the Public Enterprise Control and Air Traffic Control of Slovenia d.o.o. and are also implemented by European means, it is difficult to predict when and how the airport will be fully trained. We expect that in the coming years, most of the necessary investments will be completed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Would you like an additional answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u171	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I'm glad that some things are moving towards what we could start saving in 2000. In fact, quite a lot has been done this year. I would ask if you could say a little more specifically: By what time should the airport be qualified for these Schengen criteria? Approximately, at least a frame.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u172	As is known, the deadline for accession to these conditions is 2007 and until then we should in some way ensure, not only at the Maribor airport but also at the Ljubljana airport, the appropriate conditions for working under the terms of the Schengen.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Milan Swickl would like to ask a question from the Minister of Finance, who is absent. Please, Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u174	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister, Madam Ministers, Members and Members of Parliament! The absent Minister of Finance - for the second time today, he was in Brussels in the summer of autumn in Washington - in his absence, I ask: Will he or she do anything on the revenue and expenditure side of public finances to prevent the new government from starting an uncontrollable debt of the public financial sector? Let me confirm that with the data. During the first half of this year, the public financial deficit amounts to $81 billion without losing 30 billion on Mercator. Compared to 2004, this is 27.7 billion more than or 50% higher than the government deficit in 2004. If such a trend continues by the end of the year, the deficit is likely to be twice as high at the end of the year as it was in 2004 and will be very close to 3%. If the 3% limit is exceeded, the target of taking over the euro will be compromised. So I ask the Minister of Finance: What will he do if he does anything? On the income side, it's not clear what he's gonna do. It is clear from Thursday's change in tax legislation that the government is losing its opportunity and partial measures do not increase the competitiveness of the economy. On the expenditure side, allow me just one sentence. The government has decided not to increase funds for Dars, but to even reduce them. This will mean, as will be the case in a few days, on the Committee on Budgetary Control and other public finances, that Dars will have to charge at least EUR 455 million or EUR 110.120 billion. That is why I would like the Minister to answer and suggest that we also discuss this in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 246 because this would be decided before we hold a budgetary discussion. A serious debate on this subject is needed.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u175	Thank you very much. You will receive an answer, oral response, at the next meeting. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u176	The problem is, of course, that the Minister is gone and that he will not be until the next meeting, the next meeting will be held in October. If we discuss the general debate only in November, the budgetary debate will be over. So I propose that tomorrow, when we decide whether to see when the Minister will be able to answer or yet to discuss it. Otherwise, we will request a special session on this subject because the issue is pressing and we believe that we are practically three months before the end of the year and the Minister of Finance cannot explain how he will end the year and the data are very [[...]] [[ad from the bench.]] - he didn't, he doesn't know, he didn't say. [[...]] I would therefore like to ask if we can discuss this as soon as possible. If possible, by October, which we must decide tomorrow. But the Minister isn't here, and it's not my fault.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u177	Mr Member, it has been explained from the outset that Mr Minister is excused to be absent. At the moment, I do not see the possibility of answering whether we can discuss this tomorrow or not, but you will get an answer at one of the next meetings. Thank you very much. Mr Kristjan Janc has the floor to ask the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs a question. A little thing. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u178	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister, ministers, colleagues and colleagues! For some time now, I have been detecting and observing the unspecified trend or benefits of unemployed people receiving social money. If such an unemployed person has a compulsory or preschool child, there are additional benefits such as free kindergarten, subsidised child care, free lunch, subsidised rent, high child support and so on. I am interested in the example of a family where both parents are unemployed and the family counts more children. In a simple way, we can calculate the income of the family represented by social assistance and children's allowances. Such a family receives more from its treasury than from both parents with low incomes, and they also have to pay for kindergartens, meals, rents, schools in nature and so on. The average net salary, for example, in the textile industry in Slovenia is between 70 and 80 thousand, so that social assistance is higher than that of a low-income employee. Such a high social security among the unemployed does not usually work sufficiently stimulatingly for employment and income-generating with their own work. The role of the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Employment is too passive, as it is not restrictive to delete unemployed persons from the employment searcher's register if they do not respond to the institution's referrals to job interviews with employers. In Posavia, where I come from, we have a big problem when the employer is looking for a worker, but there is not enough response to published vacancies. I am talking about jobs in production, where the profile of 1st to 5th grade education is sought with salaries which are relatively solid for our environment, where, unfortunately, the textile and wood industry prevails. The response of the unemployed is very poor, as the social aid provided by the various transfers for decent survival is not a motivation for work. Dear Minister, I ask you and your ministry: Do you already have any analysis of the situation in this area of social protection rights? And: Are you already preparing any changes to the legislation in this area, which would direct the work of a capable unemployed person to greater employment-seeking activities, thus creating a greater balance in the amount of income received between unemployed persons and low-income workers? Thank you very much. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u179	Mr. Secretary, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u180	Thank you very much for the question raised, which is very interesting and current. The programme of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia also amends legislation on the provision of social transfers either for social assistance or for monetary unemployment benefits. I agree with your conclusion, and that is why we are preparing these changes. Some changes relate to the normative part and the other part only to the practice of working institutions that deal either with the provision, distribution of monetary social assistance or with the provision of employment, the provision of employment and the integration of the unemployed into active employment policies. To illustrate, in the first eight months of this year, the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia, on the basis of the Employment and Insurance Act in case of unemployment, has removed 6,863 persons from the register for non-advertising or non-response. Thus, it can be found that about 2,000 people are eliminated monthly. This information proves that employers and workers at social work centres are trying to be strict enough and rigorous enough to check that the duties of unemployed persons are met, but it shows that this is not sufficient. We are therefore preparing an amendment to the legislation so that, with regard to appropriate or suitable employment, it would be considered appropriate or appropriate to employ a job that is two steps lower than that of the unemployed. The unions also agree that it is better to have active employment than to be unemployed and receive social assistance. This also negatively affects a person because he loses his skills and will and courage. Then we also amend the Social Protection Act, where changes are made in the direction of employment supply, job offers. The recipients of monetary social assistance will also have to be prepared to take appropriate work activities that are of a public interest or to operate in humanitarian and charitable organisations. We want to implement the aid to ensure the mandatory employment activity of beneficiaries of monetary social assistance. The beneficiary of monetary social assistance should be obliged to carry out work activities that are not necessarily classical. In short, a number of proposals that go in the direction of legislative change and something also in terms of the conduct of these institutions, which ensure either the integration into active employment, employment or employment policies. At the same time, we are aware that there is no good intervention, there is no good performance of these tasks unless there are databases or centres for social work or the Republic Employment Service. And that appropriate cooperation must be ensured. Right now, we are in this task of connecting phases and changing behaviour, improving the conduct of the two institutions.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u182	Thank you very much. I am pleased with these Minister's announcements that there will be a step forward from the fact that unfortunately today the unemployed are too protected and many are looking for such a job that they will never find it. This is already a constant practice, perhaps mainly in some environments, less developed Slovenian regions, let it be White landscape, Posavje, Prekmurje and elsewhere. And if we don't take one measure here, then unfortunately the employers looking in this room don't find it and go abroad. It's not a state policy. If he pays an unemployed person and this unemployed person does not accept a suitable job for his educational, working ability, then there is something wrong with the unemployed person who pays for it personally. That is why I hope that the country has the power for these instruments - and after all, for this we devote extremely large resources - it is right to make a little more order here, that there is more consistency. And those who do not meet the conditions are deleted from the list of jobseekers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u183	Thank you very much. On Mr Aleš Gulič's question, I'm sorry. Mr. Secretary, one more time.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u184	So, we accept these suggestions and perceive them as they are said to be. We have also made calculations on what a person who is unemployed can expect, and we have found that in many cases it is not worth his employment. This is not least due to the addition of some measures - a type of social assistance - which have not yet been interconnected. It is the task of this government, and also of course of Parliament, to identify and adopt changes that will ensure a more equitable system. Indeed, it is not good to pursue such a policy that provides greater unemployment and social assistance benefits than if someone were to receive them if they are employed. This is precisely the direction and if you look at the programme of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, they are in preparation for this change; they are prepared, these laws are presented, which will of course also take these comments into account. Of course, in the end, as has already been pointed out, the conduct of the institutions, the everyday conduct of strict insistence and supervision, or the unemployed are really looking for employment, or perhaps secretly rejecting it. This is still happening and your comments are in place.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Mr Aleš Gulic, Minister of the Interior, Mate, will answer the question. Here you go, Mr. Gulic.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u186	Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, Madam Minister, Ambassador and Members of Parliament, President. Mr Mate, the National Assembly adopted on 22 March this year a new law on road safety, which also established a new form of registration plate. Although it's already the third exchange in these fourteen years, that's probably too much. But that is the decision of the legislator and, of course, the decision of the legislator also obliges you to ensure the issue of license plates within the statutory time limit. On 14 September, I had already asked a question on this and I wanted to know in particular why you did not take care of the issue with the law-compliant license plates. Of course, the deadline has not yet passed for the answer to be clear, but things have changed in the meantime. Thus, on September 20th, you informed the public that the invitation to tender for the production and delivery of license plates had failed and would be repeated. Does this now mean that the issue of these "illegal plates" will continue for a few months, or will you take any action? That's what I want to know. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u187	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u188	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the question, Mr Member. Perhaps to begin with, I would like to renew the adoption of the former or now existing Road Safety Act, which was adopted on 9 July 2004 and entered into force on 18.3.2004. [[?]] , and on this date the content of the new tables has been determined. This law also sets a one-year deadline for the implementation of the new form of the tables. At the Ministry, we addressed this issue within deadlines, which would ensure that in some normal circumstances we could start issuing new plates. This is how we decided to implement, for the first time, a public invitation to tender for the tables to be used, thereby ensuring as much transparency as possible, quality, in particular as rational consumption or as low price as possible for citizens. The call was international, because we are a member of the European Union, it was published in official newspapers and six offers were made. I can talk more about this now, because the decision on choice has already been made. Of the six tenders, two were incomplete and we rejected them immediately. One offer is to continue to examine the documentation where we came to the conclusion that they simply do not meet the conditions required. That's how the three bidders stayed in a narrower selection, if I say so. All three tenderers did not specify all the elements required. Therefore, the invitation to tender requested further clarification from them. We have received these clarifications, but with a thorough examination of all these explanations and a review carried out at all three locations of companies that could potentially produce these tables, we have found or the Commission has found that none of the tenderers fully comply with the tendering conditions. To be more precise, three of these three providers did not provide appropriate certificates of independent institutions demonstrating the quality of the aluminium prescribed and two of these providers did not submit an independent quality certificate of the printed colour used on these tables. As a result, the invitation to tender failed and considers that there is nothing left for the Minister to sign the decision on non-disclosure and thus avoid any other complications which would arise if one of the tenderers had chosen, despite existing shortcomings. In fact, the invitation to tender had only one condition: meeting all conditions and the selection criteria would be the lowest price. So there's this complication that we have now. With regard to the deadline for the introduction of new plates, I must say that lawyers are united in the view that the time limit in law is an instructional deadline and is not a time-consuming one. However, I intend to take immediate action in this regard. I have already proposed to the government certain novelties or changes to the articles of the law, in order to remedy this situation in which we are at the moment. This would appropriately extend the deadline for the introduction of new tables in order to be able to implement a re-commitment invitation to tender, which we will call for and in a transparent manner select a new supplier or plate maker. Of course, it must also be said that the Commission has worked very hard. They had more than 12, exactly 12 meetings. You know that this is quite a number, usually in two or three sessions the Commission concludes with its work. The invitation to tender was also technically extremely demanding because we imposed requirements where plates would have a life expectancy of 10 years or more. If I say one more thing about the tables that we are changing now, of course, I must say that we have some problems with the plates that are now in use. Tables have been introduced since 1.5, which have an incorrect eurolog, as is called the blue part with stars and the country code. The size of the letters is incorrect and does not conform to European Union standards, so in any case we are forced to change these tables because we are in breach of the European Union Regulation. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] By the very invitation to tender to be issued in a short time, we will ensure [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u189	Time's running out, please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u190	such plates as are necessary. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Mr. Gulic, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u192	Mr. Minister, thank you very much for your very comprehensive answer. You answered me more than I asked, but still, I'm going to try to summarize everything into one question; when are we going to get these plates to match the law? When do you expect this to go away? I'm also curious, but that's what some of your officials are doing, and it seems to me it's been a long time since they found out that it's not a good thing, over hand. Would you like some ears?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u193	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u194	Yeah, sure. The invitation to tender started within a reasonable period of time if there were no such complications as it had been. Given that the complications have occurred, I will, of course, have to react in some way and find out why the invitation to tender did not begin earlier. However, I must also say that the law entered into force last year, and that the practically new government and I, as Minister, were waiting for all the work to be done, because nothing had been done before. I will absolutely make sure that the call is ready in the shortest possible time immediately after this proposal, which we are preparing now to extend the deadline, so that I can count on a new call within one month. And at a pace that would not contain complaints and extension of all of this, we could have new plates within two to three months. If these complications occur, the matter will linger for another month. If the matter were to proceed in the normal process prescribed by law, it would be possible within three to four months of the date of the invitation to tender to have new plates and then to remove matters and to act as necessary. But inside the ministry, I can tell you that I will, that I have already taken action and that I will take action in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Mr Bevk, Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, will ask the question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u196	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! Some cattlemen are quite surprised when grass falls despite the right conditions for growth to appear to fail. Instead of grassing, the floors are covered with some kind of carpet, which is served by walking in such a way that a person feels like walking on a soft rug. In individual places, the earth is scattered. When we try to lift the damaged demolition, it sparkles from the fingers by easily turning it into a roll. Surprisingly large numbers of birds and some wild animals are contained in the affected grass. The reason for this is the bug year and the attack of the Greeks. The damage caused by the grassroots is caused by the developmental forms of the May bug. The sharp rubble is severely damaged. Feeding grass and most beneficial herbs are practically gone. There is no crop on such surfaces, there is no crop in the second year and there is no crop in the next season. There's nothing to eat or trap. During the last few years, this plague has affected the area of the Black Forest in the Idrian congregation, especially the Zadlog and Idrijaski Log, and it has also spread to Godovic and the neighboring Logatec municipality. There is no doubt about the great disaster that has affected farmers anymore. The specific data of the New Gorica agri-agricultural institution are the most specific. At 370 hectares, 64 farms, it was estimated that grassland was affected from 60 to 100 %. In 129 hectares, grassland was affected from 30 to 59%. On the grassy surfaces of the Zadlo and Idrija Log there are an average of 226 necklaces per square metre surface. A sustained reduction in the population of the May bug could only be achieved through the use of biotic suppression in two consecutive years and on average each farm should contribute immediately over a million tolars. However, such a provision has been destroyed for farmers, and this time the country should also help. Minister of Agriculture, Mrs. Marija Lukačič, ask: To what extent is this phenomenon accompanied by a phytopathological service? Does the State have measures in place to prevent harm in agriculture? Ter: How will the country help affected agricultural areas? I thank you very much in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u197	You have the floor, Madam Secretary. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u198	Mr President, honourable Members! Thank you for the questions and for the concern for all those agricultural holdings that are threatened by the occurrence of the May bug. You yourself mentioned that the phenomenon has already been known since 2002, but to a lesser extent this plague occurred and reached its peak in this year. At the Ministry, we have been dealing with this problem for some time, along with the phytosanitary service. However, given the specific issue, I would like to clarify that the phytosanitary service is monitoring and implementing measures for quarantine pests prescribed by the European legal order. The May bug is one of the economically harmful organisms that are suppressed by producers themselves with the help of professional services. Nevertheless, the phytosanitary service of the Republic of Slovenia actively participated in the resolution of this problem, in particular due to the appearance in Idrija, which has spread all the way to Logatco on the surface of 500 hectares. This service has ensured the preparation of an expert opinion on environmental impacts on the use of pathogenic fungi "boveria brongearti", whose use is most appropriate in view of the vulnerability of the whole karst ecosystem, and in particular water in the affected area. The authorisation was granted for the use of that fungi in the municipality of Idrija in the form of Melocont. Professional support for the monitoring of efficacy and the adverse impact on the biotic control of the May bug with that fungus has been financed and a comprehensive expert opinion has been prepared on possible ways of suppressing the May bug in cooperation with the Nova Gorica Agricultural Advisory Service. The question was also raised on the measures taken by the State to prevent harm in agriculture. The State has taken care of the authorisation to use a biotic means to prevent damage in agriculture. Farmers thus have the option of suppressing the grapevines of the Mayan beetle with a biotic preparation Melacont, with which permanent suppression can not be expected after two years after entry into a particular environment. Since the entire area of the Black Sea plantain is waterproof for two main sources, the use of chemical agents is limited. What will the state do to help the agricultural economies to suffer damage after this natural disaster? We have already made a call this year, we have provided 70 million tolars, and 24 farms have signed up for this invitation to tender, which will receive state aid of 300 to 900 thousand tolars per farm. In order to address the issue comprehensively and systematically, we are also preparing an appropriate regulation to address this problem of the May bug, which would be implemented in accordance with the Law on the Elimination of the Consequences of Natural Disasters. We are counting on the regulation to be prepared this year and, once the recovery programme for other natural disasters in agriculture is in place, we will also resuscitate the May bug. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u200	Thank you very much. As far as I was concerned, the measures came about two months too late. I hope that doesn't cause too much damage. I would also like this call to be implemented as soon as possible, so I would like to ask you for a little more specific information: When can farmers expect at least a proportion of the damage to be recovered? You mentioned the amounts of 300 to 900 thousand tolars and 24 farmers applied for this invitation. However, since there are many more affected farms and areas, I myself have mentioned the number of at least 64 farms in the area of the Idrija municipality, and I wonder whether all farmers will actually be informed that they have this possibility of participating in this call, so I would ask that any information may be provided in this direction. Indeed, this area is also very complicated from an ecological point of view, as it is a water source area for a number of coastal municipalities, especially for the municipality of Idrija, and not all measures are appropriate. The fact that it is a matter of great concern, however, tells us that many farmers have been able to hear that they are even thinking about selling their livestock because they no longer see the prospect of farming in such an affected area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u201	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u202	Twenty-four farms have applied for the invitation to tender, we have reviewed these applications and all 24 fulfil the conditions required. This means that you will receive these funds and probably by the end of this year. However, that these measures were not implemented this year in the manner that I explained, they were not appropriate conditions, climate and temperature and temperature. This fungus exists, is purchased, we also know about how much it will cost, we will look for appropriate conditions in the spring; now in winter there will certainly be no suitable conditions for the successful or effective operation of this fungi. If only 24 applications were submitted, I probably had no reason not to know about this because we were informed by means of public information, I personally wrote to Kmecko about this matter, and it was also published on the radio. However, it was a condition that the main activity in agriculture must have been, and probably this was the reason that those farmers who did not have the main activity in agriculture had failed. We will resolve these, as I said, within the framework of the Law on the Elimination of the Consequences of Natural Disasters this year in the context of other natural disasters, this is a flood, in particular a flood. [[You know that this year there was a hailstorm on more than 10,000 hectares of agricultural areas in 30 Slovenian municipalities.]] We expect the state commission to prepare a programme, notify the government and then the agriculture ministry, which will have to prepare a recovery programme, and under this recovery programme we will also solve the "majko bug" for the other farmers, this year for sure.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Rugelj will put the question to the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u204	Thank you. It is known that the Agency for Agricultural Markets has destroyed documentation relating to the granting of aid and subsidies to Slovenian agriculture or farmers. Since this destruction of documentation sheds a bad light on the work of the current Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, I ask you to answer my questions: On the basis of what laws, who proposed them and who adopted them, has destroyed the documentation and when? Ter: How have records of the destruction of the documentation been kept, and to what extent has the aid records now been established? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u205	Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u206	Thank you, too, for that question. The Member himself noted that the affair on the destruction of the archives on the allocation of financial interventions between 1991 and 2000 had shed a poor light on the work of the Ministry; I hope that the Ministry is not at present at that time, and more worryingly, on the loss of the reputation of Slovenian agriculture. The Financial Intervention Act was the basis for financial intervention in agriculture, production and food supply between 1991 and 2000. The identification of the rights, obligations and responsibilities of beneficiaries of intervention was subject to the annual regulations adopted by the then government, which was not in accordance with the Administrative Procedure Act. An internal instruction on the storage, disposal and destruction deadlines of documentary material issued by the then Minister was issued on the basis of the then Office Operations Regulation. On the basis of this instruction, the then acting director of the Agency for Agricultural Markets and Rural Development issued a decision on the time limits for the storage of the documentary material of the Ministry resulting from a contract between the Ministry and the Business Food Association, which, on behalf of the Ministry, carried out the task of allocating subsidies. Although the material was owned by the Ministry, which was responsible for regulating the material, the archive, instead the Ministry brought the entire archive to the Agricultural Markets Agency and gradually destroyed it there in accordance with these internal acts. This Decision provided that the time of storage or maintenance of the material is a five-year period, after which the Agency destroyed this material. Otherwise, it would not have been wrong for the Agency to produce adequate records of how much, how much, and when the funds were allocated, in accordance with the regulations of that time. Most of the archives were practically destroyed. In accordance with the conclusions of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food of the National Assembly and in accordance with the conclusions of the Government and the conclusions of the administrative inspection, it was directed on the Ministry to re-establish records of who, when and how much funding had been allocated in the past decade. On the basis of these conclusions, the Ministry has practically defined all measures, appointed these people and made sure that this record has been re-established and that this archive has been reconstructed to the extent that the data have been made available. I assess, and practice has shown that this record is at least 95% reliable. Thanks to the Ministry of Finance, cooperatives, banks and other financial institutions, through which payments or payments of grants were made. Perhaps it would point out here that although the archive, according to my assessment, is somewhat flawed in view of the fact that the cases were destroyed, because the records were not established and because the then cooperatives, which submitted applications on behalf of farmers, were either in bankruptcy today or that these materials were not prepared to be submitted to the Ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Would you like some more?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u208	Thank you. The answer's pretty good.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Mr Happy Friend will raise a question of the matter with the Minister of the Interior. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u210	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honors are here! We said something about Croatia today, but let me. In Del, 21. 9. We have read that Croatian police officers are also acting in a new way in a territory that is indisputably in the cadastral territory of Slovenia, for which the Minister is convinced that you have been informed. In fact, they demand our citizens' identification, or identity cards, to be harassed if they are fishing there or any other activity. And, of course, in our humble opinion, this should not be happening at all. Why so different operational criteria in controlling the state border with Croatia? Let me serve some information. Croatia continuously interferes with the territorial territory of Slovenia. Well, that's pretty clear. And in fact, it also threatens with written orders. 5. 4. She sent a written order to Mr Anton Škof to demolish him with an explosive house because she said it was not built in accordance with the rules and in an appropriate manner under the laws of Croatia, although the said gentleman has all the relevant permits from the Cathrian municipality of Piran. It was that day that the Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Croatia also held and was hosted by our foreign minister when the police arrived at the said gentleman and nailed this to his door with nails, of course accompanied by an inspector from Buj, this decision. Next. In the past, the Republic of Slovenia has renamed a series of small-border border crossings into the international so as to essentially increase the flow, transit flow to the Republic of Croatia. This is precisely the fact at a time when holidays, sicknesses and actually makes it difficult for residents to access the house there, because we know that the columns are a few meters long and the fact is that even locals cannot go to their homes. So why not redecorate these border crossings in line with Schengen standards? On the other hand, we find that we allow the Croats to cross our border in Belokranj, and we do not even exercise border control at our maritime border. So, Minister, I ask you nicely if you can answer me: Why so many different criteria? At the sea border, we do not carry out border controls, while in Belokranj, I could see, we also essentially allow the Croats to ride our territory. They're armed and they're motorized. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u211	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u212	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much for the question, Mr Member. First, the question is much broader than the oral one that I received. However, I will try to answer all points as far as it is of course within the competence of the Ministry of the Interior. First of all, I would like to point out that State border controls are carried out in different ways to understand, of course, different activities. Since 1.5 last year, Slovenian police have protected our southern border in accordance with the Schengen acquis and in accordance with Slovenian legislation. The objective of the border is, in particular, to prevent illegal migration, to prevent the smuggling of arms, weapons, the work of weapons, explosives, drugs and, of course, to prevent organised crime and the activities of criminal associations at the borders themselves and in connection with the transport of various illicit activities across the state border. Although Slovenia has not yet entered the Schengen acquis, it has also begun to implement it at its entire border. We are practically doing everything in this period so that by 2007 we can fully assume the external Schengen order and ensure all the necessary criteria. At the moment, Slovenian police are monitoring this border with different methods of their work. To prevent what you described earlier, of course, we need to do our work in different ways and at different borders or at different parts of the border using different approaches. We carry out different checks at the border. We exercise fundamental border control and also carry out thorough border control. This border control is mainly carried out at border crossing points. In particular, it should be noted that Slovenia has been successful in the pre-accession negotiations and has ensured a different status than the other new members. We do not need to set up a special border police force, which in some border zone would monitor its border thoroughly. We've secured ourselves a police force where we have a certain number of police officers to control at the so-called future Schengen border. We have ensured that the entire Slovenian police exercise border control throughout their territory. It is said that under certain conditions a foreigner may also be examined inside the country. If I focus on the protection of the blue border or the maritime border that you have highlighted, I must stress in particular that, of course, the border line between the countries at sea has not yet been established, but the Slovenian police are fully in control of the area under control in and before 1991. The control of this border shall be carried out by different means. First of all, we have on land a very modern high-tech radar system that controls this area. We have other technical equipment. Now, of course, I would not give a detailed description of how we constantly observe this area, we can monitor and prevent all the activities that I have described before, especially the flow of illegal migrants, after domestic smuggling with illicit funds and, above all, the trade and operation of organised groups. Finally, the Slovenian police, with the boats they have, exercise control in this area. The last measure being implemented, including at the depth of the maritime border, is being implemented by so-called compensatory measures, where the police on land also protect this maritime border, all in the manner and principle of operating the operational tactical action of the police in protecting the border. I cannot agree with the statement that the Slovenian police do not effectively control the maritime border. With some information, if Slovenia were to provide good protection for its southern border, I can underpin the fact that we are also receiving from independent institutions from abroad confirmation that our southern border is well protected. The number of illegal migrants crossing the Slovenian border to Italy and Austria is also very low. The neighbouring countries have a positive assessment of this. However, if I touch myself only in two sentences driving Croatian police officers across part of Slovenian territory, to the point where it is again Croatian territory I must point out that Slovenia [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] signed certain agreements with the Republic of Croatia. [[...]] That these agreements, of course, allow such a transition [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u213	Mr. Secretary!
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u214	both Croatian and Slovenian police officers. [[...]] And of course this National Assembly has ratified this agreement [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u215	Time's up, Mr. Secretary. Thank you very much. Would you like an additional explanation? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u216	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister! Look, the fishermen aren't adequately protected. The citizens of the Republic of Slovenia feel threatened at these borders. In fact, they cannot do their daily work that they would like to do. On the other hand, we point out that we allow control of Croatia from our territory, so the armed can come, as you said, and we leave the point of control. I was thinking a land checkpoint on the Uts. This point has never been visited. We even have written resources, ensuring that the police there have been responsible for banning this border control point. That's why I asked you so many questions. And Mr. Secretary-General! Why not take good care of our citizens, in a way that is essentially also constitutionally ensured that they can move freely at home in their territorial territory? We also witnessed the warship of the Croatian Navy when it invaded our territorial sea. Last case, the incident in Mura, which was also before you, did not even produce a protest note that would have been written by the Foreign Minister. When I asked the Foreign Minister myself, he told me that I was rude. In putting a particular matter in the last sentence, it states that it ultimately allows itself to essentially be offensive to this written question in some segments. All I was saying was facts. It is true that Mr. Minister is at the time, but I believe it is not the case that he actually hosted the foreign minister of Croatia in Piran. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Search in essence for gentlemen on the house number Secovlje 1 Croatian police and that gentlemen have arrived from Buzet. [[...]] That seems very unfair to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u217	Mr. Friend. Time.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u218	Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u219	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u220	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm sorry I got to the edge of my time earlier. But I wanted to respond as fully as possible. Of course, I'll continue where I left off. As regards the agreement which is in force between the two countries and which has been ratified by both national assemblies or parliaments. I must say that, of course, Slovenian police officers also go through Croatian territory to the point where they exercise their control. The matter is not unilateral and must be presented in this way. The matter shall run in such a way that it is pre-arranged, precisely on a specified route at specified times, with a specified purpose. At the time of crossing a given territory, police officers have no authority to exercise any of their powers in the territory of another State. So things are very precisely defined. I would also point out that the Slovenian police are not leaving the state border. I've described in very detail how we protect the blue border. With the measures we are taking in the Gulf of Piran, we are ensuring a fundamental and thorough control of the state border, where we do not practically record the smuggling of weapons, ammunition, explosives, where we do not record illegal migration and thus ensure the basic mission that the police have to prevent such activities at the border itself. The other questions you have asked are unfortunately not within my purview and you must address them to the Foreign Minister who will be able to answer that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u221	Thank you, Minister. Mag. Vasja Klavora will ask the Minister of Transport of Magi a question. Christmas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u222	Dear Mr President, the Honourable Minister and the rest of you are here! At the initiative of the Regional Community of Voljče, the Municipality of Tolmin, and the Italian municipality of Drenchia in the border Slovenia of Venice in 1994, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia joined the planning and construction of the connecting road from the village of Voljče to the small border crossing of Solari, which connects the municipality of Tolmin with the Italian municipality of Drecca in order to connect directly the most remote and demographically endangered part of Slovenia's Venice with the mother nation. By building this road at a total length of approximately 9 kilometres, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has since then acquired 705,000 ECUs of grants, representing 75% of the construction value and has taken over the obligation of 25% of the share. The route, which has the character of an international connection, was built until the macadamian road stage in 1998, and has run out of funds to asphalt it and to maintain it regularly, as a part of Slovenia's financial assets have been missing. The numerous initiatives so far, both the municipalities of Tolmin and the Italian municipality of Drecca, which were particularly active in the European Community’s institutions in order to finance the road project at all, have not yet fully responded to the joint calls, apart from the declaration promises made by the traditional annual meetings with foreigners in Kobarid. The unmaintained road, which was eagerly expected by the people of our minority in Venice, soon after the construction began to collapse and move away from the conditions for obtaining a usable permit. The disheartening of our minority is becoming ever more acute and even thinking that the minority will express its protest with the relevant institutions in Brussels, which I hope they will not have to do. For all the above reasons, I would like to answer the following questions: Who is responsible for such an unsustainable state of the unfinished project, which also causes political national damage in the event of a material project? What does the Ministry of Transport intend to do with its unfulfilled obligations, including until co-financing, is an obligation towards the European Community? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u223	Thank you, Mr. Clavori. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u224	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Thank you so much for asking. This road link was built with the Phare funds acquired by the Ministry of Economy. According to known information, the breakthrough was made and the construction was not completed as you described. The Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads, as the competent operator of State Roads, does not have any documentation on the basis of which to provide more information on this road. For all the documentation is kept by the municipality of Tolmin. On the basis of the legislation in force, the Ministry of Transport or the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia may operate only public roads categorised as state roads. The Voljce-Solari road on the Slovenian Italian border was never categorised as a state road and could not be included in the state budget or in the development programmes of the Slovenian Directorate for Roads. I will be able to answer this question in more detail as soon as the relevant documentation is obtained by the Tolmin municipality and after its examination. However, I would also provide this information to re-check whether the road really does not meet the criteria for the categorisation of state roads, which was also an agreement with the Slovenian Directorate for Roads. So, the activities related to the verification will be carried out below. Of course, if they meet the minimum criteria. I think that, because of the interstate connections that are necessary, it is necessary to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u225	Thank you, Minister. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u226	Yes, please. I would just like to ask again the following question: Mr Minister, I hope that you will fulfill this promise. I think you'll get all the documentation you need from the Tolmin Congregation. But there is an even broader problem here. In fact, responsibility to the European Community. It is difficult to read in the newspaper, a few days ago in the newspaper Delo, that the Commission of the European Community, which came to this area in 1998, to look at this work and that road, was then shown another road nearby. This is newspaper news that exists. This is what people read, and the same news was taken by even the Croatian newspaper The World a few days ago and I read it. So, as our obligation to the European Community. When we spoke to the mayors of the Italian border municipalities two days ago, that is to say, they have no problems with roads in their area, at least with the funds of the European Community. And we promised that part. I don't think this government is as much to blame as the last one that happened. However, I think we should take this matter seriously also because of our Slovenian Venice. They don't have a TV program, they're not being reached by radio. It would be nice if the borders were no longer to be reached by only one road, because this will in fact become one of our common Slovenian cultural spaces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u227	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please. Please, can you turn off Mr. Clavor? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u228	So, very briefly. I am aware that these roads, which have sometimes been interrupted in some way at borders between countries, need to be put into transport because of the needs of the population. From this point of view, and from this point of view, I will make an effort, as Minister, to actually check the possibilities here, as I said. And secondly, it is certainly the one who built this road and if it was the Tolmin municipality that should send the right ones who reconstructed the road in order to show the European Union, but certainly if the obligation is taken by the State of Slovenia, it is necessary to take this seriously and verify where the documentation was, how the agreements were concluded and where this obligation falls, or under our resort, that is, our transport ministry, or under any other. In short, if this is about fulfilling the obligation and closing this budget item within the European Union, then this must be done without delay. I agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u229	Thank you, Minister. Mag. Borut Saiovic will ask the Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Food a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u230	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, ministers, rare colleagues and colleagues! My question concerns measures in agriculture and subsidies in agriculture. The fact is that Slovenian agriculture will survive only with this support. That is why this problem, which I am pointing out, in Slovenian agriculture as well as in rural development is extremely pressing. The fact is that we have problems in this area and that we have not had as many problems as we have - I will say - in this year, we have not had them in the past. Of course, my question and the initiative measure those 40,000 calls for the completion of applications, because things from the old cadastral and digital recordings - as they were said at home - did not go together. Then, during the summer, a lively political debate developed, the short end of which was drawn in the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia, above all unjustifiable. But I think our problems and problems are somewhere else. The first is the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, and the second agency. In general, in this system, which - I must say - I know from a distance, especially from the point of view of a small and small farmer, that the system is clearly designed to do so, not how we will get these people a number of additional resources and a lot of assistance, but especially how we will not allow or seek them with light on a white day for reasons and why we do not pay them these funds. In this context, there is also this penal policy, which I have already presented to the Minister today, and I hope for a solution as soon as possible. But I'm interested in presenting the history story. Who is to blame and, above all, how many investors have not completed this application and will, of course, be difficult to expect and urgently need funds? What will the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food do or - say - in the second year that such and similar complications no longer occur? However, the second part of my question concerns this criminal policy. This criminal policy is not known to farmers, nor is it known to promoters who work for farmers in the agricultural chamber. Also, the customers and directly the managers and the affected warn me that they will then call for an explanation to the Agency. For the same problem, three different responses are received from three different persons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u231	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u232	Thank you for asking. I will try to explain the chronology as I saw it at the Ministry myself when I accepted these tasks in December last year. I have found that in 2005 the State of the Republic of Slovenia, with 1.1, is obliged to begin to carry out a graphic presentation of the areas to which the farmer is entitled in the allocation of subsidies. We are bound by the 2001 Council of Europe Regulation. This in practice means that the Ministry of Agriculture has been all of it since 2001,? [[...]] Now this task awaits. It has been sufficient time for the problems to be resolved or prepared by appropriate professional bases, which will form an integral part of the applications for subsidies. The Ministry of Agriculture, in agreement with the Ministry of the Environment and Space for this purpose, trained the Earth's cadaster and the era of recordings. So here I'm talking about the digital cadastral plan and the orthophotos of the videos, and so I'm hiring high loans from the World Bank. Unfortunately, last December, with my arrival, it was determined that I was coming from an appropriate profession, that these records did not meet the required accuracy, so it was necessary to find new solutions. We immediately approached the development of a second methodology, the so-called Gerko methodology - a graphic unit for agricultural land use, which will start with 1.1.2006. In order not to repeat this year's situation, it guarantees the conclusion that more than 50% of the agricultural holdings already have so-called Gerkas, which will be an integral part of the graphic basis and thus the subsidy requirements for the following year. We'll prepare the rest by the end of this year. Until then, records had to be used as they are for this year. That's why we were forced to use a digital cadastral plan, which is positionally imprecise and unsuspecting and combined with aerophotons that are 5 years old, almost 6 years old. The Agency invited individual farmers to supplement only in cases where it found that there were differences between [[...]] [[A group in the background.]] the requests and the graphic presentation. [[...]] I'd like to point out the following. That this is not a rejection of the application, but only a request for supplementation, which is significantly more favourable for the farmer as the corresponding financial resources are provided by the supplement. By rejecting or by a decision later on, however, I would practically be before the fact that it complains and proves a different situation. Therefore, it is by no means possible to take these calls as a reduction for these financial resources, but to allow the farmer once again to complete his role and thereby secure these funds. I understand you about the criminal policy, which is extremely restrictive, both to the country and, of course, as a consequence, to the individual beneficiary, or farmer. We all know that with Slovenia's entry into the European Community, we had to take full over the European acquis, which, at least for agriculture, is being prepared and adopted at the common bodies of the European Union. Unlike other ministries. We will answer the specific question that you have presented to me before, in particular tomorrow. However, the following is true: the bovine animals for which irregularities have been identified in administrative and on-the-spot checks are subject to the sanctions provided for in Article 59 of Commission Regulation 796/2004. The percentage of the reduction shall be taken into account for all animals for which applications have been lodged for any type of premium for bovine animals. Here I am referring to special premiums, slaughter premiums, milk premiums [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] , suckling cow premiums, extensification [[...]] [[?]] pay and so on. Criminal policy is laid down in the rules of the European Community. An individual Member State does not have the opportunity to change this. The Agency for Agricultural Markets shall be controlled at least once a year by the European Inspectorate in this respect. This year's inspection was in June. If we were to find out about the irregularities, it would be a state. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] punished. [[...]] They're very high sentences. Therefore, the Agency cannot afford derogations from the rules.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u233	Thank you very much. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u234	Thank you very much for your answer. I must say that in much of this response, I agree with him. Of course, I am also taking some initiative from this city that, in the area of these agricultural measures and subsidies, which are extremely bureaucraticly large and complex areas, we are also trying to create a formal, administrative procedure, a friendly, partnership relationship that could - for example - appear to be the most frequent mistakes from the agency, the most common problems are collected in certain periods and then transmitted to the acceleration service. With this, we will build this system from year to year, and we will receive more from payments as a whole from our country and from the Brussels budget every year. I think there will be more dissatisfaction in this area. It is, of course, an agreed partnership, not a problem with some political weight. In many small, small Slovenian farms it is mainly about survival. There, as politicians, we need to look for the key and model, together with the professional services, to literally look for farmers and land owners who would still be eligible for funding, and they are not getting them right now. This, however, will prevent this issue, which is today incomprehensible, complicated, bureaucratic, many older and, in particular, less educated farmers from this system - from my own practice, I know a whole lot of people who have unfortunately withdrawn from this system because it is also easy to go along with the promoters of this action in the bureaucratic and administrative field. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u235	Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u236	The initiative is timely, and we will take it into account. Some European countries have these catalogues, catalogues of errors and consequently a solution. This can contribute significantly to a better work. We'll consider it, of course.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u237	Thank you. Mr Matjaž Han will raise the question to the Minister of Transport. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u238	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister of State! The reconstruction of road G 1-5 Krko-Cele on the section of the Shire-Zidani Bridge is a project that has been planned for many years. However, there is no longer a mere transposition beyond the next period. By deepening the undercarriage in the Wall Bridge, traffic is possible for all, including the largest freight vehicles. This causes a lot of problems and congestion on the Walla Bridge and on the mentioned section of Shire - Walla Bridge. In particular, the safety of other road users, such as pedestrians, cyclists and so on, is also questionable. There are no sidewalks in the Wallan Bridge along the road, and there are not properly decorated banks that would prevent the skirmish of motor vehicles in the Savinoje River and the Sava River, further to the Radeče Municipality. Due to the remoteness of the area from the highway cross and the corresponding road links, we cannot expect entrepreneurship and economy to develop in this area. At the same time, I would like to point out that the 2005 budget has already been planned at SIT 69 million, mainly for Shire, and the government has reduced it by more than 59 million SITs with the 2005 budget rebalancing. I am convinced that the funds already planned in the budget would be sufficient for this section of the road to enable the investment to begin. The implementation of the whole project could, however, be completed in the coming years with the assumption that the appropriations foreseen in the budget should be provided. In addition, funds were planned to prepare appropriate project documentation for the management of the road through the Zidani Bridge of SIT 30 million. With the balance, the government has reduced these funds to SIT 5 million. A meeting was held at the Ministry of Environment and Space in early February 2005 with the aim of agreeing on the constructive cooperation of the Ministry of Transport in the preparation of regional spatial development designs, or on the procedures for the preparation of spatial acts for road sections for which an initiative for the development of the State site plan has already been proposed. The conclusion of this agreement was that, in order to build the deviant main road G 1-5 Krško-Cele through the Roman Toplice, Zidani Bridge-Working, Section 0330 and 0331- works, according to the level of detail and technical characteristics of the initiative, the State location plan was drawn up in accordance with the established procedure. So, Mr. Secretary, I ask you: When will this state location plan for the construction of the deviant main road G1-5 of the Roman Toplice, Zidani Most, Radeče? Secondly: Will the 2006 budget provide adequate resources for the multi-annual project to be completed in due course? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u239	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u240	Thank you very much for the words and, of course, thank you for the question. The deviation of the main road G1-5 Roman Spas, Zidani Bridge, Radeče near the Wall Bridge is included in the state location plan for the construction of the main road G2-108, Hrastnik-Zidani Bridge. The initiative for the preparation of this national site plan shall be submitted to the Ministry of Environment and Space from 20.12.2004. In this regard, the Ministry of Environment and Space, which is responsible for the preparation of the national site plan, convened a spatial conference in accordance with Article 28 of the Space Regulation Act with a view to obtaining and harmonising the recommendations, guidelines and legitimate interests of local communities, economies and interest associations organised by the public regarding the preparation of this national site plan. After the first spatial conference, the Ministry of Environment and Space warned the public transport agency and the Ministry of Transport that it would be useful to tackle the rail problem in this area simultaneously, since both systems are interdependent in a very narrow area. The Ministry of Transport must decide below whether the project will be carried out in the context of very high demanding investments together with the railway or only as an investment of the road. I must say that the timetable for the location plan has not yet been drawn up and the minimum deadline for completion under the applicable rules is 2 years. Let me stress that the Ministry of Transport of the Slovenian Directorate of Roads participates in all activities carried out by the Ministry of Environment and Space and provides all the necessary financial resources for the preparation of that local plan. I would also add that the Railway Agency considers that road links also touch the development plans of public rail infrastructure in the area of the rail vehicle Zidani Most. The Resolution on the National Development of Public Railway Infrastructure also provides for a new two-track route across the Sava Valley for higher speeds or so-called high-speed railways, as well as an upgrade or reconstruction of the existing track along the Savinja Valley for a speed of at least 160 kilometres per hour. In the wider area of the Wall Bridge there is a link between the different categories of the track. Accurate links between spatial and transport technology are not yet definitively established. Therefore, the Railway Agency will participate in the process of the relevant local state plan, as this is the only way to ensure an integrated and optimal solution to the infrastructure problem in this topographically very difficult and environmentally sensitive area. I hope I gave a satisfactory answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u241	Thank you very much. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u242	Thank you very much, Minister. I'm sure you've given one answer, but in your answer it was primarily a solution - I'll say - of rail transport, but I have to tell you, given that you know the situation in the section of the Shire and the Walla Bridge is essentially not approaching the railway, so I would like to warn you and ask that these funds, which have already been in the budget for the Shires and for the Walla Bridge, are still returning to this budget and that work really begins at this section. Because this road connection has nothing to do with the railroad. That's why I'm asking you to take another look at this. I also invite you to the municipality of Laško and also the municipality of Radeče, where you will be able to see for yourself that - otherwise I agree with your answer - this matter could still be resolved in a different way. This road connection Zidani Bridge - Roman Spas and Laško could be solved without a railway problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u243	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. The figures will raise a question for the Minister of Transport. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u244	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Secretary! Colleagues and colleagues! Short question: I ask for explanations and an explanation of the reasons why the Ministry or Dars has not yet obtained the operators for this year's updated budget for the implementation of the national highway programme. In particular, I ask for a description and explanation of the activity for two projects: Activities related to free movement tolling and implementation design and preparation for land purchases of the first phase of construction of the connecting fast road Želodnik-Mengesh for the first stage of construction of the Mangeš railway. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u245	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u246	Thank you very much for asking, thank you very much for your word. First of all, allow me to present the activities of the Ministry of Transport in the development of a future electronic toll system in free traffic. A year ago, a study was completed on the eligibility of the establishment of an electronic tolling system in the free movement of transport, which deals with the further development of an electronic toll system in our country. The European Directive on the interoperability of electronic toll systems in the EU was adopted in April 2004. This Directive lays down a European technological framework for solutions. Following the adoption of the directive, various expert groups in the EU are speeding up recommendations for the standardisation of equipment, certification of individual technical solutions, vehicle classification parameters and organisational and legal preconditions for the introduction of the European electronic toll system. Aware of the importance of this area, we have also stated in the Ministry of Transport's work programme that verification and planning of the future electronic tolling system is among our most important objectives this year and beyond until the end of 2008. In order to achieve the objective set, we have foreseen an approach that is multi-phase and ranged: for the first time, making decisions that will enable the gradual closure of the toll system. Secondly, the preparation of appropriate legislation which will provide legal formal grounds for tolling, control of infringements, punishment of offenders and other tolling procedures. Thirdly, the implementation of activities that enable the testing of appropriate technologies to be carried out in accordance with the conclusions of the above-mentioned study. Fourthly, the implementation of activities that will enable the interoperability of the electronic tolling system with EU Member States and enable the verification of different possibilities for upgrading or changing the toll system. Fifthly, verification and coordination of decisions concerning the development of an electronic toll system in Slovenia with guidelines for recommendations and EU directives. In order to implement the legal framework, we have already drawn up a proposal for amendments and a supplement to the law on public roads, which, in the field of the toll system in the Republic of Slovenia, introduces principles into our legal order, both as set out in the above-mentioned directive, as well as the so-called 'euro wine directive', which deals with the tolling of heavy goods vehicles in the EU. Amendments to this Act shall be decided at this meeting of the National Assembly. With regard to the technical implementation part of the implementation of the economic toll system, we have decided to test the entire business technical set of solutions for the introduction of the toll system, which enables the identification of the vehicle's position by means of satellite and wireless mobile communication and to test the functioning and interoperability of the system in the region and wider by means of microwave short-range technology. The pilot tests are already ready and are immediately ahead of publication in the Official Journal. On the second question, - I might add this - it is imperative that pilot testing of both systems be presented in both Slovenian and wider European space for later implementation of individual or individual solutions. I must also point out that activities related to the standardisation of individual technology sets and solutions for electronic toll systems in the EU are still under way and that Slovenia, with its experts, is involved in this event. The deadline for the completion of these procedures is at the end of 2006, and the immediate definition of the Republic of Slovenia as one or another technological or technical solution would therefore be premature and very likely a highly irrational decision. On the second question, about Mengeš Oblast, here's what I'm going to say. The resolution itself in the national programme for the construction of the motorway in the Republic of Slovenia for the whole sub-section Želodnik Mengeš for the Mangeš Obvednica provides for the start of the preparatory works in 2008 and construction later in the year. The 2005 Annual Recovery Plan, to which the National Assembly agreed at its meeting on 19.4.2005, includes funding of 120 million tolars. For previous projects and purchases for Mengeš Oblast there is Želodnik Mengeš on the section of the state road with the bypass as well as for the section of the state roads Mengeš Žjeje, Žjevodice. Dars has already launched a procurement procedure, an invitation to tender for the operator of engineering services for that section. The tender documentation is prepared and will be approved shortly by the party and the publication in the Official Journal is in the beginning of October 2005. And the engineer will be elected by the end of November. The following will be immediately followed by an invitation to choose the designer for the PGD phase and the PZR projects. The projects will be completed in the first half of 2006, according to Darsa's assurances. Of course, the continuation follows in the context of the preparation of the annual development plan and the renewal of the highway network for 2006 and then also [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Thank you very much. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u247	Thank you very much. Would you like some more? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u248	Thank you very much. Well, on this second point, the connection road Želodnik-Mengesh with Mengeš and its first stage was also provided with some funds to be spent this year, of course I am concerned that if the contractor is chosen in November, the funds will not be used in this year or the situation will not be paid. It is unacceptable that Dars has waited several months for the adoption of the balance sheet and has not yet prepared the relevant procedures. I expect that the remaining funds will be provided in the following year and that this delay will then be compensated and that the implementation of the undertaking itself, as the first stage of the most necessary and economically eligible part of the project, can also be planned faster than envisaged in the national programme. It is the case that the project or location plan, which was designed and adopted two years ago, as a document by content is obsolete if it is too long overdue for implementation. With regard to automatic tolling, however, I would like to draw the Minister's attention to the fact that Slovenia should, in view of the state of tolling, for the first time hand, and for the second time to the inadequate automatic system of ABC, make a more rapid and more decisive decision in terms of the gradual and phased introduction of the toll. Perhaps for heavy goods vehicles first, and then gradually by testing such tolls further. It could also promote a simpler and more modern form of satellite toll consumption and then also enforce our industry in Europe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u249	Thank you very much. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u250	I think that I have already responded to this last part of the opinions you have expressed, Mr Member. Let's go systematically, not in thought. Indeed, it is big money in the future when it is really necessary to think about what variant Slovenia will choose to move forward. Of course, especially since systems must be interoperabilityal and, above all, must comply with the directives they have laid down. Secondly, with regard to the funds themselves for this year: If they are not used, they will be carried forward to this extent and probably additionally necessary to allow the activities to continue beyond the deadlines I have also mentioned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u251	Thank you. Mr Ferri Horvat has a question for the Minister of Finance. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u252	Thank you for your word. Presidents, distinguished ministers, distinguished colleagues, respected colleagues! Slovenia has been very successful in using pre-accession assistance from the European Union. She was at the top of the board. As a member of the European Union, Slovenia is extremely inefficient in the use of EU funds. Poor withdrawal continues despite the adoption of the declaration, which we have adopted unanimously in this National Assembly, despite the repeated assurances made by government representatives, including the Prime Minister, that the Government will take measures to effectively draw on the European Union's resources. If there is no major change in the coming weeks as the end of the year approaches, it is obvious that despite the negotiated situation of the net recipient Slovenia will be a net payer in the European budget. This does not mean and will not only damage development, but will also be a poor starting point for further negotiations on the future financial perspective. I therefore ask Minister of Finance Andrej Bajuk: What is the net position of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia in relation to the budget of the European Union, according to the latest figures, and what is the estimate by the end of the year? More specifically, please provide information on the revenue from the budget of the European Union to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia and expenditure from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia to the budget of the European Union after months, from January to including August. However, since at best the answer will be given in October, it would be good if we could obtain data by the end of September, cumulatively and what percentage of the realisation of revenue and expenditure compared to the 2005 budget rebalancing. In addition, I ask: How many applications have been sent to the European Union and to what value have they so far or by the date on which the answer will be given? I thank you for your reply, and I look forward to it at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u253	Thank you very much. Mr Drago Koren will raise the question of the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u254	Dear ministers, fellow Members and Members of Parliament, a nice greeting on my behalf as well! A new study year begins next week. Some 80,000 students will take another bite at their primary activity, that's a study. Two basic conditions must be provided for successful studies. The first condition is the basic financial resources that each person needs for his or her survival. Students here are no exception. The second condition is the student room needed by students who are at home outside our study centers. In recent years we have seen a significant increase in student work through student services. Student work is not temporary work, as we call it, in cases where a student works daily after 8 hours and even after 5 days a week, but it is actually purely normal work. Nor can such a way of doing work have a positive impact on the study process, prolonging the study time, especially if it is not a work that would be directly linked to the performance of the profession for which the person performing the work is educated. In the interviews I had with the students, where I told them that their basic duty was to study regularly, not to study, I got an answer from them that it was their necessity, because otherwise they couldn't survive. Representatives of the Student Organisation of Slovenia highlighted the lack of scholarships as a key problem of the student population today. Another problem faced by students who are at home outside the study centres is the lack of student beds in student homes. The large increase in the number of students in the last period was not followed by the provision of dormitory rooms in student homes. I know it's part of the revenue generated by student services for student homes. But I also know that this share is very small. On the other hand, we all know that often money resulting from student work is placed in portfolio investments, rather than being used to improve student learning, housing and other activities. Mr Minister, I ask you: Are there any changes in the area of scholarships that would bring more students who could receive scholarships? Have you done anything to increase the number of student beds? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u255	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u256	Thank you very much for the question regarding scholarships and student homes. The Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs has already made some changes in terms of providing more scholarships. The project is designed to have multiple scholarships in Slovenia to make the study more economic-related, so that the scholarships would have some connection between the scholarshiper and the scholarshiper. These scholarships would also, somehow, consist of a combination of scholarships from the budget and scholarships. In this way, we would ensure a higher number of scholarships in Slovenia and therefore it would not be necessary for some students to need student work to ensure their study. On the other hand, we have found that student work for some is no longer just a means of providing resources for study, but a way of living, and there are many other things that have accumulated in this circle. Our purpose is certainly not to abolish student work, but to perform that real function. It provides some with the necessary resources. The student's work is related to the study. We'll also raise the price to get a scholarship. This will be possible by obtaining additional funds from the economy and from the profits now provided by intermediaries, i.e. student services, instead of investing in some kind of capital portfolios in companies. We think we could get more scholarships out of this. As for home security, student homes, we had a meeting today with representatives of students where we discussed how to provide more capacity. At present, the plan is to provide a loan so that these projects, which are set up, are also built. For the next period, we may also be thinking about an additional concession to provide a stable source of resources for building a home for a longer period. We need to be aware that our perspective is knowledge. Therefore, in fact, a large proportion of young people will choose to study. However, the study must be effective in line with the Bologna Process and also the Lisbon Strategy, of which Slovenia is also a signatory, following these documents. It is necessary to provide students with access to work before the age of 25 and to provide effective studies. Thus, these are plans to be fulfilled by amending legislation. You are probably aware that one part of this legislation has already been aligned with the social partners. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u257	Thank you very much. You want another question?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u258	Thank you for the answer that I'm still quite pleased with. Perhaps he gave me the answer to another question: How can I prevent abuse in this student work? Is it possible that you are thinking here, or what measures might be available to make sure that abuse is done? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u259	Thank you very much for the additional question. Student work in such a form that Slovenia does not know in Europe, but of course they know the work of students and in a sense it is also more favourable. Of course, you may be concerned about both Members of Parliament and us Ministers and of course the citizens. The abuses that are taking place in this area. The Labour Inspectorate shall check the performance of this work more intensively. We have also introduced additional controls with the new Income Act. At the same time, consideration will also have to be given to certain restrictions. Especially during the period when students study to avoid work as well as full-time work. This is a question of how a student can then perform eight hours of work during the course of study, or even more. The Labour Inspectorate found that some employers, in fact, provide all their changes with student work, which is sometimes not even done by students. Well, this is definitely to prevent such abuses. And of that, the students have nothing. However, unfair competition is established in this way towards employees who, of course, pay contributions. At the same time, we have found that this period is prolonged when students continue their undergraduate studies, do not complete studies and move towards 30 years of age, which, of course, means the loss of income to the pension register, and for them students, because they may not even think that 40 years is a retirement period. If they start working at the age of 30 and pay for insurance, then it is 40 years old, full pensionable at the age of 70. This is unfortunate, so I also insist that young people get involved in employment earlier, to take advantage of their potentials and abilities.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u260	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Kontic, Minister for Health, mag. You're a freshman.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u261	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. With the help of the public media, it was possible to understand that by granting public powers to the Physiotherapists' Chamber, more order is announced in terms of the profession, the elimination of black practices and the consistent introduction of novelties. On the basis of these findings, I would say that everything has been wrong in this area so far, and this is probably not the case. By a decision signed by Minister Andrej Bručan, five sets of public services have been given to the Chamber. The means for the exercise of these public powers shall be provided from the State budget. The decision of the minister was caused by incoherence by Slovenian physiotherapists, who are united in the society of physiotherapists of Slovenia and who competed in the procedure for granting public authority. I ask Andrej Bručan, Minister of Health: What are the arguments for his decision, and how does he respond to the dilemmas that arise from the society of physiotherapists of Slovenia? I thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u262	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u263	Dear President, Members! Thank you for that question. There's been a lot of talk about this lately. I must say that I have known the matter in terms of competition between these two organisations, if I may say so, since the year 2000, when I was first Minister. It is a chamber and a society of physiotherapists who are in no way found a common language for the implementation of this activity or for the organisation of certain activities belonging to societies. In 2004, the amended Health Act also enabled the granting of public powers to other chambers, not only the Medical Chamber of Health Care. For a long time, in fact, in the previous mandate of Minister Kebra, they have not been able to somehow lead to this call for one of the two chambers, nor have either of these chambers actually had the conditions recognised at the time for carrying out this activity. This year, on 18 May, we issued a decision to initiate a procedure for the award of public authority and the award of services under public authority. The decision was published in the Official Journal. I'm not gonna talk about the whole procedure. The deadline for submission of tenders was 30 June. By then, two candidates had applied, namely the Physiotherapist Chamber and the Physiotherapist Society. When we reviewed these offers and assessed them, it was found by the service which carried out the invitation to tender at the Ministry that the offer of the physical therapists’ chamber was correct. The Chamber has shown that it fulfils the prescribed conditions and has therefore been granted this public authority, which you have now asked about. The offer by the Slovenian physiotherapists society of this so-called professional association had two, at least in my opinion or in our opinion, errors, one of which is formal and the other is non-compliance with the conditions. The first formal irregularity in the offer is that they did not provide the requested data with the number of membership payments, which is among the data required by the Commission in order to select the most economically advantageous provider and the second, they did not show clear evidence that the employees have the skills to carry out this activity. On the basis of this opinion, which was given to me by the expert committee, I decided to grant the concession to the Chamber. On the basis of these findings, on 1 September a decision on the granting of public authority to the Chamber of Physiotherapists was issued and a decision was subsequently delivered to the Chamber on 15 or 16 September. That's what we're done with. I must say, after this date, there have been many interventions from different sides. In addition, the indications that the information provided by the Physiotherapist Chamber is incorrect that, in fact, there are only 980 members in both society and in the Chamber, talking about over 1,000 members, and in fact there are only 980 members in the field of physiotherapy in Slovenia, as is known to me. So both data are probably wrong. The Commission also took a look at the register of the physical therapists' chamber. They were then proved or proved that this register of Chambers was correct, regular and that it could be taken into account in the choice. I must say that in view of the current situation that has arisen in this regard, I have decided once again to order a review of the review of the two members, the Chamber and the Society. On the basis of this audit, which I will examine very strictly and strictly myself, I will then also make a final decision. Even so, a complaint from society is expected, based on what you said here, I can say logically. This Decision will now be suspended on 1 October 2005, as set out for enforcement before enforcement.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u264	Thank you very much. Mr Mag will put the question to the Minister for Higher Education, Science and Technology. Franz Capuder. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u265	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Secretary, Members of Parliament! This year's public invitation to finance the training of young researchers from the economy to obtain a doctorate in science in 2005, through which the Ministry of Enterprise covers for three years all the costs of the employment of a researcher who also holds a doctorate in the field of enterprise research at the university. It is known that this option is extremely popular among companies, which shows a trend in previous years, since companies have a dual benefit: co-financed research, which takes place in the company itself, while covering all the material costs of a researcher who generates high added value to the company. At the press conference this year, you said that you had invited 45 of these cities for young researchers in the economy. As has also been seen from the national research and development programme for the period 2006-2010, which the government recently adopted at its meeting, you have set yourself a measure, as reflected in the text, to increase the number of young researchers in the economy by 80. I ask you: Do you estimate that such an increase will be sufficient, given, at least so I suppose, the high demand of businesses for this measure? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u266	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u267	Thank you so much for saying that. Thank you very much to the Member for the question. It's true what you said. In this programme of young researchers for the economy, which - this needs to be stressed - separates from the Young Researchers for Universities and Institutions programme and for the flow, these are young researchers who are explicitly committed to working in economic organisations and who are also employed there. This year we made a call for 101 companies, and we awarded 45 scholarships and 45 young researchers. If I look after years, in 2001, when the action started, 122 were registered and 33 were approved, in 2002, only 51 were registered, 30 were approved, 42 were registered in 2003 and 26 were approved, and the trend turned around, 72 were approved and 35 were approved. Thus, since 2003, the trend has turned. However, the problem was that we expected a significantly greater application by companies this year, because we facilitated the conditions, which means that we have increased the potential age of the candidate, which means that even the slightly older candidates who are already working in companies can report. There are also those who have interrupted their studies in the meantime, so we have slightly reduced the average assessment that was necessary, but only 101 companies have applied, which is still less than in 2001, when 122 companies were registered. This means that the absorption capacity of companies is still relatively low, so we intend to increase it further. On your question of how we intend to achieve the target of 80 young researchers per year, this goal is, of course, set by 2010. We hope this number doubles over the next five years. However, it must be said that every 10 young researchers, additional ones, of course cost 100 additional million taxpayers, because of course they cost a young researcher a year between 6 and 8 million. For three years, of course, it's a pretty big number. And of course, we know that young researchers in industry do not study for three and a half years, but on average four and a half years. Of course, we still have a lot of room here to make things bigger. It should also be said that the 2004 funding increased practically by 60% in 2005, from 430 million to 700 million. That's a big sum. If we want to increase this by at least 20 per year, that means another 200 additional million a year. So we have already started here, but I note this, of course, and we note this also through calls, when we have also encouraged companies during the call for proposals that conditions are favourable. But we see that the absorption capacity of our companies is low. And here I particularly stress what I forgot to say is that we have reduced the number of employees in the company that is entitled to such a young researcher to two. This means that these are really small businesses and medium-sized enterprises. So we have extended the circle a lot, and I must say that there is still a lot of work to be done here, so that smaller companies will also understand the benefits of this call and what we are offering. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u268	Thank you very much. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u269	I'd like some more information. Given that you said that somewhere in 2001 this programme began to be implemented, if I understood correctly. And I'm wondering, what are the responses from the economy? You said the average duration of this doctoral study was about four and a half years. That means there's probably no first doctorate in these programs yet. I wonder: What are these current responses, how is this program implemented?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u270	Thank you very much. The average time is four and a half years. We already have the graduates who finished this program. The response of companies is, I will not say that everyone is exciting, companies mostly have two kinds of comments, besides being satisfied that they have been paid. But you need to focus on what's not good. In fact, it seems to them that students or doctors spend too much time at institutes and universities. On the other hand, this is also essential because they have to do doctoral thesis. So, companies would like to make more of this, but there is a compromise to be made here, so we can't get the full scientific title of the doctorate that these young people get, because they also have to explore something wider to benefit the company later, so we have to guarantee quality here too. That's the part. However, industrial complaints are also about the length, because companies seem to be on average four and a half years too old to allow this title or study to a young person, it is said, to want universities and institutes of several strictly defined programmes and guided programmes to work on a specific schedule and to meet it. We will try to speed this up or make it possible by financial means to reward only those who do things within a certain time frame and to introduce certain penalties for those who pull things. It is clear, however, that it is always awkward to punish, say, a mentor or a college who works very well, and even sometimes when students work, it is necessary to know that they work in companies, they are still studying, there is always some compromise, because there is always no guilt on the one hand only by the professor or only by the faculty, sometimes it is also the fault of the company that comes into certain difficulties and then the time range is difficult. We need to work sensitively here, and that is why we have special commissions doing this, but we want to shorten this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u271	Thank you very much. Mr Mag will ask the question of the message. Mr Franc Žnidaršič to the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u272	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Both ministers, colleagues, colleagues! We are informed that the Rakitna Children's and Youth Climate Treatment Centre has been facing increasingly serious problems in terms of easy survival for several years. In this regard, it is not possible to pass the strange policies of the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance, which, although a health centre has concluded an agreement with our children’s children’s climate treatment every year, the medical board or authorised doctors who, in accordance with the guidelines, decide on this treatment do not consider it to the extent necessary. Since there is no doubt that the disease of children and young people cannot be reduced by almost half every year, it is on the palm of the hand that this kind of treatment of our children is too limited. In the last three years, the number of children in the Rakitno has dropped by half a year. For example, just a few years ago, only the Ljubljana region sent more children to Rakitno for climate treatment than we are now sending them from all over the country. The fact that we have fewer and fewer children can only be one of the objective causes. We believe that not only should the treatment of our children and young people be maintained in this treatment facility, but it is also necessary to make a consistent use of this option to the extent of capacity. Because there is no pediatrician in this country who could peacefully claim that we no longer need this medicine for our children or that there are not enough of them to meet the criteria for such treatment. I ask you this question, Mr. Minister of Health: What will the Ministry do to ensure that the Rakitna health resort remains available to our children in need of this kind of treatment without fear of survival? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u273	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u274	Thank you so much for asking. This is once again one thing that I was dealing with five years ago when I was first that short time minister and I came now after these five years to the Ministry, and the problem is bigger than it was then. I agree. In fact, the original problem or operation of this health resort was created by dividing the city of Ljubljana into several municipalities and a municipal municipality, ten local municipalities. One of these congregations, Bezovica, was then appointed Rakitno. The city of Ljubljana later completely raised its hands from this health resort and was virtually not prepared to participate in any serious discussions about working together in this health resort. Now, however, this is not really the root cause of the problem, although it has generated a beginning of problems. That's all there is to it. One of the reasons that this number of children sent to recovery is surely a decrease in fertility or a decrease in the number of children sent to recovery. The second reason, which is very important, is also the conclusion of the extended Faculty of Paediatrics, of 16.4.2002, where members of the College find that the continuation of hospital treatment in the hospital is not necessary, therefore there is no need for the Rakitna Hospital to become a dispersed section of the pediatric clinic. It was suggested that the spa should start by introducing new current programmes, such as addiction to illicit drugs, psychosomatic disorders and the like. This is another reason, therefore, that there has probably been a major decline in this area in recent times, including the severe financial problems involved in the management of the health care facility. We have already met several times in this short period of time on this medical facility, and we have in fact decided to obtain some information from the Institute of Health Insurance. These data partly deny those claims that such a drastic reduction should be made through a commission for the treatment of Rackitno. Although I must say that data are indeed found to be sent to medical treatment through the Institute of Health Insurance for 14 days instead of 21 days, as recommended by the RSK, once every two years, while the optimal frequency of treatment is once a year. Data on the number of rejected applications for referral to medical treatment show that they do not increase, therefore, the number of rejected applications at the Institute of Health Insurance through the commissions for treatment in Rackitna does not increase. It is only necessary to take into account the medical criteria on the basis of which the decisions of the appointed doctors of the committees are taken. Maybe just a few more words to say what we decided at the Ministry for the future. In this process, the Ministry of Health will take the view that the Rackitno by the end of this year's contract year, that is, 31.3.2006, the current operating costs are financed - in the 2004 contract year, the costs for salaries amounted to 94.6 million tolars or 31.5 of the total contractual value - and that the current implementation of the programme is also financed, that is, for 2005 until 31.3.2006. In the period until 31.3.2006, it will be necessary to define a long-term systemic solution, both in terms of ownership and the content of programmes aimed at children and adolescents. What we would like to offer in Rackitna, where it is currently considered that there is not much possibility for asthmatic children to be treated in more than so far, especially on the basis of this Decision or this opinion from the enlarged Faculty of Paediatrics, we believe that, in addition to what has been done so far since the programmes in Rackitna, some additional activities have taken place, some educational health activities, programmes on strengthening mental health and others. Of course, children need this, and it is precisely these plans that we will now follow in the coming time until March 2006, when we will try to define a definitively new programme for Rackitno.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u275	Thank you very much. The question of Mr Majd Potrat to the Minister for Higher Education, Science and Technology is an issue. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u276	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, honourable Members! Perhaps it is a valid question to ask me at this late hour a question which is the same as the question that you have already received from the distinguished Minister today. Therefore, I will not repeat what Mr Slavko Gaber asked or reasoned on in his question. Nevertheless, I would like to ask you some questions, which I still have in your reply: Is the research activity also subject to the increased influence of the government on the area that I think should be, because of the power it has, and the importance for the development of society as autonomous as possible? There are also answers or warnings from the world that when the research sphere is too dependent on the economy or on the payers, it can have devastating consequences for the public interest. Therefore, do you allow: is it not possible to have a contractual funding method aimed at calls and where the administrator or the founder has sufficient power to influence research policy and in government policy the priorities expressed, a strong enough leverage not to interfere with the human resources and other mechanisms that you provide through membership or government representatives in the boards of public administrations, of course, research? Do not consider this to be cynicism, but the question arises if we come from a point of view of practicality, rationality, then it might be best for government representatives to sit on the boards themselves. In view of what I read about the government's excessive influence in public research institutions, I went to check for amendments to the law on research and development activities and saw that, in fact, it is a single article, and it is the one that changes the structure of the boards. But when I looked at it, [[End warning sign]] There must be an ever-increasing majority on the side of the government and the number can range from five to nine members [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u277	You're running out of time. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u278	I've had a little trouble determining the number and the ratios, provided that [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u279	You're running out of time. [[The microphone's off.]] Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u280	Thank you so much for letting me answer. Thank you, Madam Members, for the question that seems relevant to me and also to me on the ground, so that there is no doubt about eligibility or late hours. Nevertheless, the answers are important. The question was whether I didn't think the government was overly involved in research activity just because we know that, as you said, if a mercenary goes into research, then in some sense, as I understood, excessively limited and not certain research autonomy. That was the essence of the question. Here, in some part, I would agree with you, in this part, if we are speaking, if, in fact, the payer is making a full decision or is actually involved in this with 100% authority. Here it has to be said that public research institutions are as well as universities, but at this point in time I will not talk so much about universities, are in my least third part or, say, a little less than a third, I will say a quarter part funded by institutional obligations. Founder's obligations, this is the whole business, which politics does not affect, because the institution has to operate, we can only improve as much as possible. The second part of the funding is programme funding, which is long-term, five-yearly, contracts are concluded, and in this, except in control - and here is one of the weaknesses of the system so far - at no point in the programme or in the project and not in the institution's responsibilities has been defined and carried out, controls by the Ministry and controls by the organisation itself. We believe that control, both internal and external, is essential. That's why it's being introduced. Another reason is that, of course, control or responsibility for the use of budgetary money is also introduced in the segment in which public research institutions operate on the market. And here comes our analysis of the relatively large and unwanted flow of money between the state budget money and some kind of "dumping" against private service providers. The fact is that the institutes tending to be, with the greatest possible market share that the environment forces, actually use the space, researchers and equipment purchased by the State to do cheap services that are routine, for which the institutes are not essentially intended. And here is the role of these boards to say, of course, boards, no, you have to do more scientific research, not routine research. Here's our purpose. Our aim is to bring in larger, stronger, longer-term research from industry, not to do these short-term analyses or routine research that are not actually for institutions. This may be some kind of mental leap, but it is necessary, and here institutional leadership and institutional boards must be directed in this direction. That is the essence of our actions. One more thing I have to answer to you is that when you say, "If," the government wants to, and then we should all be on the government's board of directors. That was one of the answers. No, no, no. We want to talk, we want to talk. We make deals, we always make deals, but, as I mentioned before, when someone can't or won't make a deal, then someone has to cut things and decide. And that's the one who, of course, gives most of the money. This must be done by the board of directors, as called by the department of department. These are the reasons, and I'll tell you that we've been through this thoroughly. I also have practical experience in this area, even in my short term until now, when we have tried our talks, we have simply not come to anyone. We've been talking for six months, we've been negotiating, and since no one wants to take sides, it's just in the three-partite system that it's not necessary for us to get a majority when we have to act, but of course there are certain things we need to do. And that's what we need [[....]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] responsibilities and we also want to implement them. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u281	Thank you very much. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u282	I thank you, of course, for what you have said to me, but at the same time I must say that I have read just about the non-controversy and non-consultation with representatives of the research institute in the newspaper, that you have not consulted. That's one. Second. What you have explained to me is whether I should understand that studies currently studying the effectiveness or implementation of state programmes will now be entrusted to private research institutions so that there will be no conflict of interest. When I'm in a conflict of interest, just one more question. I understand that in some human resources solutions you have talked about a conflict of interest when it comes to a representative in the administrative committee of the Slovenian Agency for Research. But let me tell you, the conflict of interest has also been discussed with the President of the Higher Education Council, and you haven't noticed this or this danger. But here you were with the representative of the Chemical Institute, convinced that it was a conflict of interest. Thank you for this part of the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u283	Thank you very much. If I answer the first part first. In fact, it's a conflict of interest. The conflict of interest is primarily about finance. This is the most important thing. In the second part, however, the world has no financial implications, since the finances then come into line later when the government actually decides on money. But as for the first part of the question, when you were talking about the general relationship between research, I think that would be the first part if maybe I didn't quite understand when you said we weren't talking. It is true, because it is a measure which, of course, is rejected by the majority and would, of course, be an agreement here. We have only taken this measure when we have seen that, in certain cases, action must be taken at these levels. And we're talking about content. That might have been my difference. I always do, and all our boards have instructions, as far as I can give them, of course, to negotiate content. This part of the agreement was, as I would call it, a formal legal form of the boards of directors. Here we believe, according to the concept of our government, that we want responsibility not to extend, but to concentrate precisely on those responsible for this in order to carry out certain projects. In this concept, however, we believe that this was the right thing to do. Although, of course, I absolutely allow the possibility that some other political options do not agree with this. These are, I think, justified or reasonable reasons, but we represent this opinion. I, too, am of the opinion that responsibility in this part of the budget money must be tightened. And we did it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u284	Thank you very much. Finally, Mr Rudolf Moge will ask the Minister for Higher Education, Science and Technology. Please. Mr. Secretary, please turn it off.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u285	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! My question will be very clear. When the Government of the Republic of Slovenia returned the buildings on the Vrbane road in Maribor to the Roman Catholic Church, Prime Minister Janez Janša promised the Rector of the University of Maribor that he would first solve the construction of new premises for the Faculty of Agriculture. History says this college has been building for as long as these school tolars. The strategy of the previous governments was as follows. For a psychiatric hospital in Pohorje a new building is built in Maribor, it moves to Maribor and after the adaptation of these premises moved to the Faculty of Agriculture. The relevant decision was adopted at the Senate of the University of Maribor and also at the Senate of the Faculty of Agriculture. In the meantime, two other locations appeared, one as a new building in the municipality of Hoče, the other as a new building in the municipality of Maribor. That was the last of those options. For this reason, Mr. Minister, I ask you: which of these three possible locations have you chosen for the new faculty premises? How much budget have you provided for the construction of this university for 2006 and 2007? This means how many you planned when this budget was being prepared for these two years. When do you expect the university to move in?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u286	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u287	Thank you very much again. Thank you very much, Mr Mohet, for the question. This question is of interest to a large part of the higher education area in Slovenia, especially in Styria and Maribor. If I answer that financial part first, because it's the most important part, let's say, it's important. We dedicated a total of 2 billion 425 million to the University of Agriculture in Maribor – 200 million in the following year for projects and others – in 2007 there was a billion and a half and a remainder then in 2008. We anticipate that if there are no complications, depending on the choice of location, certain complications may still be possible, but if there are no complications, the building will be habitable in autumn 2009. That's the plan. Of course, it's a rather tight and tense plan, but we think it's realistic. Now for the first question, about the location. Unfortunately, at this point in time, I cannot assert with authority exactly where this plan will be chosen, because this decision has not yet completely fallen. We've been looking at locations with the whole team, inspecting the castle, getting to know exactly the advantages of all three locations. As you said correctly, there are three locations. One is the renovation of the castle, one is the new building, one is the location in Maribor itself. Regardless of where we are moving, there are two fixed points or two points of resistance that we want to keep in every way. The first point is the one I mentioned, namely that the new university, at any location it will already be, must be habitable in 2009. This is the first point of resistance and in any combination is a very strong thing that we need to watch to be fulfilled. And the other thing that is equally important is that the castle, so-called Pohorsky Court, will not be without content. So this is an extremely strong request. In fact, the Pohorski court is an extremely important building from the point of view of Stajerska or Maribor, including the entire environment. Now I am not just talking about higher education space, although it is most important from a higher education point of view, but we believe that even if a location is chosen, a new building is chosen, and I can be completely frank here, personally speaking now, it is up to me, as far as the Ministry of Higher Education is concerned, to make a new building. From a simple point of view, if one country is building a new university, let this be modern, by all standards a facility is equipped, because in other cases things things are not functionally optimal. It should be pointed out, however, that this government is working collectively, that at least five ministries should be looked at in this context. We've already said that in our conversation. This is the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Health, which is handing over this location, the Ministry of Higher Education, the Ministry of Education, as well as, I think, the Ministry of Environment and Space, which is also reviewing the matter, not to mention the Ministry of Finance, which is always involved everywhere. When this decision - now we have practically collected all the data, we also have plans, because this is very important, for the program itself, what will be done, how the laboratories will be set, what the requirements of the laboratories are - and since we have this already collected, we are now checking how much costs there are in, say, adapting the castle for such things and what are the chances that in adapting the castle there are not unloving events that could move that anchor date. These are now those data that are unfortunately still being studied at a given time, and I think that we will be able to communicate the final answer very soon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u288	Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u289	Thank you very much, Minister, for the financial construction and for the time of completion. But this thing's been going on so long, it's got a beard. And I would ask you, in your opinion, when will the location be determined? For it is not a castle, the castle was without content, and we should save it differently. This is the premises of the psychiatric hospital and Rankovic's villa, which was there. There have been so many views, and the opinion of the architects is that it could be placed with at least tax money, it is said, and the deanate in Ranković's villa, and the classrooms and other things in the former hospital. Finally, if you can answer me: How much does the Faculty of Agriculture now pay for renting these premises, which belonged to the denationalization of the church? If you do not know now, you can also send me an answer in writing; then I will certainly be satisfied with the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u290	Thank you very much. That's what we used to wear out Sorry! [[...]] Will you answer that, Mr. Secretary? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u291	Of course, if you don't mind, I'll answer. As far as your last question is concerned, I must say that I don't know this information right now, and we'll get back to you in writing. I'm sorry it wasn't written, but I didn't bring that information with me. As far as destination is concerned, or how long. This thing, I have to say, somehow it's not in my power to change anything back. The fact is, this thing has been dragging since 1991, that it's been out of it for, say, fourteen years. If denationalisation had been done earlier, the matter would probably have been settled much earlier. It's the way we solve things as much as we can. As far as redesign is concerned, we are actually reviewing all options. At this point it is necessary to say that when we examine options, they are not alone and excluded from the factor of finance alone. The fact is, we have to look at the whole thing, and we have to look at it in the long term. Just like that, in a sense, we say that it is to conclude, because now we are at the end, if the castle was not good for a psychiatric clinic and it has moved out after a few decades, then it is quite reasonable to expect that the castle as such is not an optimal solution for a college where students need even more than the spaces and camcicles that can be made with the smallest resources. We're gonna have to take a look at that, too. As I said before, we are working collectively and the decision will be taken by the government, and I think we will be happy to make it happen, so that students and the whole neighborhood will have the most of it.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u292	Thank you very much. I thank all, from the Prime Minister, all the ministers who have worked together today to provide answers, especially to Minister Zupan, who insisted on ending with the ten of us. I hereby adjourn the 9th session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. Good night!
