ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the continuation of the 5th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that you are detained and cannot attend today's meeting, Mr Jožef Školč and Mr Ferri Horvat. We're moving to 3. Agenda item, this is on the exploratory proposal for a 2005 AGREEMENT ON THE ANNUAL PLAN FOR DEVELOPMENT AND RENEWAL OF AUTHORITIES. The material was submitted to the Council by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I'd like to ask for peace! I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation. Please, Mr. Minister of Transport, mag. Janez Christmas.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u2	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u3	Mr. Secretary, I'd like to invite you to a pay phone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u4	Dear President, honourable Members, honourable Members! We have before us an annual development and reconstruction plan for 2005, which foresees that a total of 173.9 km of motorways, fast roads and other roads will be built this year from the national highway construction programme in the Republic of Slovenia. The transport will be dedicated to four sections at a total length of 22.3 km, the last missing section via Trojan, that is the section of Trojane-Blagovica, the last part of the Škofija-Sermin fast road, so we reach the border with the Republic of Italy again, then the missing part of the highway section Smednik-Krška you are on the lower motorway leg and, of course, also if technical possibilities allow and also weather conditions, also the motorway section of Hrastje-Lešnica on the lower motorway leg, otherwise this section will be completed in accordance with the national programme in spring 2006. This year, a complete motorway connection will be completed from Maribor to Kopra in the fifth European corridor. The construction will start at 11 new sections in a total length of 55 km, namely on the pomurska motorway arm Maribor-Lenart, Lenart-Spodnja Senarska, Lendava-Pince, Pesnica-Slivnica, the new Zrkovska road, then the Koper-Isol section, so we are starting to build a real coastal fast road. The construction of the Vrba-Peračica section continues on the mountain highway leg. In Dolenjska there is also Lesnica-Kronovo and the two-way fast road Hajdin-Ptuj and the highway connection Ljubecna near Celje. And we're also connecting with the Porta Koper motorway connection and we're going to build a gas station for Bertoka. The value of the 2005 annual development plan and the renewal of motorways is 124.1 billion Slovenian tolls, of which 6.3 billion will be for the construction of motorways and other roads from the national programme and for the renewal of motorways and a new electronic toll system for 95.3 billion tolars; 6.3 billion tolls for Dars for the management and organisation of construction and reconstruction; 2.2 billion for the financing costs and 20.3 billion for the payment of investment credit liabilities. So the resources envisaged for the implementation of the annual plan are. Firstly, investment transfers amounting to 38 billion tolars. Of these, 27.1 billion are legally earmarked budgets and 10.9 billion is from the Cohesion Fund. Drawing on already rented loans from the European Investment Bank and Autovia Veneto credit of 30 billion tolars, total. Then the issue of two series of Dars bonds totalling 26.2 billion tolars and the refund of the value added tax amounting to 12.1 billion tolars, while the second source amounts to about 510 million tolars, as well as Dars' concession fee from the toll collected at 17.3 billion tolars. Since the consideration of the 2005 annual development plan and the renewal of motorways on the Transport Committee, the applicant has improved the text with the technical corrections provided. I propose that the text be supported and that the National Assembly adopt a consensus on the 2005 Annual Development Plan and the 2005 re-establishment of motorways, on the basis of which they can, in particular, be based on sections where construction is to begin this year, take all the necessary activities for their early start of construction and, consequently, their timely completion. Thank you so much for listening to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u5	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The proposal for a decision was considered by the Transport Committee as the parent working body. I ask the chairman of the Committee, Mr Frank Kangler, to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u6	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! At its 3rd meeting, on 5.4., the Committee carried out an examination of the proposal for an annual plan for the development and renewal of motorways in 2005, which the Government forwarded to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration under Article 3, paragraph 3,a, of the Law on the Society for Motorways of the Republic of Slovenia on 28 February. We also received a written opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly of 4.4.2005 and from the Commission of the State Council for Local Self-Government and Regional Development on the proposed annual plan for the development and renewal of motorways in 2005. In its opening remarks, the representative of the proposer pointed out that the review of the annual plan presented the dynamics of the construction of motorways in part, slightly lower than the projected construction volume of the resolution on the national programme for the construction of motorways in the Republic of Slovenia, but the scope covered 95 % of the envisaged realisation and the content of the construction by section with them. He also said that in this year it will start building on 11 new sections 55 km long and that the value of this year’s annual development and renewal plan for motorways amounts to 124.1 billion tolars. The estimated financial resources for the implementation of the annual plan were issued by the SPA in two strands of Dars from dedicated budgetary resources, cohesion funds, European Investment Bank and Autovia Veneto loans. In its opinion, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia first notes that the proposed structure act is designed in the same way as the 2004 plan. It further noted that sections of roads in Chapter 1.3 of the construction of motorways and other sections at which construction will continue in 2005 and on which construction begins, but that planned works are given after the presented sections in a manner that does not allow for a clear distinction between the two phases of progress. In the debate, the members and members of the Committee expressed some concerns and comments on the reasons for the deviation from the objectives of the resolution set out in the national programme for the construction of motorways of the Republic of Slovenia, despite the high level of development of motorways in the previous year. They wanted an explanation on the implementation of certain projects or construction on individual motorway sections, namely Trojane-Blagovica, Šentvid-Koseze, Pomurje motorways and Poznica-Tezno. The honourable Members and Members were given clear explanations by the applicant and, on the basis of the explanations provided by the representative of the proposer, the majority of the members of the Committee considered that the representatives of the legislative and legal services were mainly editorial in nature, which also referred to the uniform application of the individual terms laid down in the application of other sectoral laws. However, the representative was invited to clear the text of the act editorially by the Slovenian National Assembly. On the Committee we found that some of the data were accurate in the works of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Ministry of Transport, but some errors occurred in the Rapporteur in which the data were published. Following a discussion on the proposal for an annual development and renewal plan for the 2005 motorway, the Transport Committee adopted the following decision: "The Committee of the National Transport Assembly, following a debate held on the basis of the 112th and 171st Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, proposes that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia consider and adopt the following decision: On the basis of Article 3a of the Law on the Society for Motorways in the Republic of Slovenia, Official Journal No. Article 57/93 and 126/03 and 112 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a decision at the Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on a unanimous annual plan for the development and renewal of motorways for 2005.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u7	Thank you very much, Mr. Kangler. We are coming to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Franz Kangler, SLS, again has the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u8	Thank you for your word. Dear Members and Members. The Slovenian People's Party Group is pleased to discuss today's annual plan for the development and renewal of motorways. As the Government's representative presented his report in the introduction, we find in the Slovenian People's Party's Group that this is a very strong dynamic in the construction of the highway programme in recent years, which means that roads are those that have any impact on both the economic races and the development of the economy and other segments that are important for social and other development. In the specific annual plan for the development and renewal of highways based on the opinion of the legislative and legal service, we find in the parliamentary group that these are editorial corrections and that these editorial corrections can be taken into account by the government. With the annual development plan itself, we can find that it is a dynamic of a uniform construction of motorways across the Republic of Slovenia, and I am pleased to note that in the development of motorways only in 2005 we can find that documentation is being prepared on some sections across Slovenia from Cogetinci-Beltinc, Jagodje-Stanežiče, Plusqua-Ponikva, Slivnica-Ptuj, Markovci, Bezovica, Divača-Koper, Šmarje-Dragonja, Koseze, Šmarje-Sap, Draženci, Povje-Jeprca connections. This points to actual dynamics, to those objectives set by the government and the Ministry together with Dars to prepare documentation for these sections in 2005. With regard to further construction and from the programme, the following sections of Vransko-Blagovica, Trojane-Blagovica, Srmin-Škofije, Šmarje-Visnja Gora, Hrastje-Kronovo and some other sections of Hrastje-Lešnica will be placed on the market in 2005 which shows that some important sections for the movement of traffic from the north to the east, from the east to the west, from the north to the south of Slovenia will be released and thus made possible. In 2005, Dars also planned some new sections on construction, notably Lenart-Beltinci, Cogetinci-Vučja Vas, Pesnica-Slivnica, Zrkovska-connection, Razdrto-Vipava, Peračica-Podtubor, Šentvid-Kosezeze, Maribor-Lenart, Lenart-Beltinci, Beltinci-Pince, Pesnica-Slivnica, Hote-Arja Vas, Klanec-Ankaran, Koper-Isol, which shows that Dars’s programme has actually set the goal of building some important sections around Slovenia to develop such a national programme, and that motorways are also an important factor for certain local communities directly related to infrastructure in their environment. Therefore, with great satisfaction, we welcome the Slovenian People's Party and will also support and agree on this 2005 motorway construction plan. However, as far as the legislative and legal service is concerned, we in the parliamentary group believe that these are editorial corrections and they must be taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mr Boštjan Zagorac SNS has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u10	Thank you for your word. Your Honors are here! Today we have before us a document entitled Proposal for an Annual Plan for the development of motorways and the restoration of motorways for 2005. This is a kind of document that, because of the chaotic state of certain sections of the road in our country, is not opposed, because if it were not supported by this document, this chaotic state would only be prolonged and the government would be given that classic excuse - we prepared the document and you as a national assembly did not accept it. Nevertheless, some concerns need to be expressed before this document is adopted and I hope that the competent ministry and the government will take them into account in the implementation of the annual plan. Initially, I would like to point out that last February's National Plan, the Resolution on the Construction of Motorways in the Republic of Slovenia and the Good Year after its adoption are already coming in the 2005 Annual Plan, which is ahead of us today, to differ from the resolution and the plan, which we find totally unacceptable in the SNS because the competent ministry, which has been preparing the content of the resolution to a greater extent and this annual programme, is headed by a minister from the same political party. As regards the legislative and legal service and its opinion, it seems to us that the warnings about the proposed document in our opinion are correct and should be taken into account by the Ministry and Government. In certain chapters, certain definitions, particularly when referring to certain sections where construction continues or begins, are presented at a cheap rate. As I have already mentioned, there is a difference between the construction of motorways in this annual plan and the resolution, in particular as regards the length of individual sections. Here I can specifically mention the Lendava-Pince motorway section, where this difference is in the length of the section between the annual plan and only the resolution. In the proposal for the annual plan, which was discussed on the parent board, there was a large number of editorial errors, which we believe is a document in which we are talking about a few billion Slovenian tolars for the construction of motorways, almost unacceptable, but I am pleased that the editorial corrections were received one day before the point in question and not five minutes before the point in question, as this practice has so far been in this National Assembly. As far as the area of highway financing is concerned. The annual programme shows that the development dynamics of the motorway will be 5% lower than the projected construction volume of the resolution. This year, it is expected to start with the construction of eleven new sections, representing approximately 55 kilometers in length of these sections, and the value of these sections is estimated to be 124.1 billion Slovenian tolars. The expected sources of funding are shown in the report itself. We have earmarked budgetary resources, credits at the European Central Bank, then we have Dars bonds issued and toll financing. The fact is that every meter or kilometre of the new highway requires some financial means to build its own highway. It is also true that the European Union does not have a single system of financing motorways in the Member States, but requires the provision of funding to individual countries, which means that individual countries themselves should provide funds in the most transparent and least painful way for their citizens. The very transparency of finance in the construction of highways in our country or in our country was the biggest problem and somehow a vague fact. We therefore fear in the Slovenian National Party that this practice will continue with the issuance of new Darsa bonds if we know that the country has issued bonds in the past, especially when there has been speculation and with a view to concealing financial flows. In the Slovenian National Party, we have repeatedly pointed out a non-transparent way of financing the construction of motorways through bond issuance, resulting in a shift from the planned construction plan and, on the other hand, a growing public debt or a directive to state-owned enterprises for the purchase of these bonds. But we all know that they had quite a problem in cashing it. According to our assessment, it is a good part of public debt, which today is estimated to amount to about 950,000 Slovenian tolls per capita - I emphasize the population, regardless of age. Most of this debt comes directly from these bonds, which were issued solely for the purpose of covering up new liabilities or concealing financial flows. Therefore, from this point of view, we cannot talk about the effectiveness of financing the annual programme for the construction of motorways. We propose to the government to make an effort to find other sources of funding that will not be so burdensome for public finances in the Republic of Slovenia. As far as the individual sections envisaged by the plan are concerned, it is necessary to mention or dare to separate from critical or more critical and most critical. In any event, the Lendava-Maribor section is more critical, where only in the Radenci Circle data gathers about 200 trucks per hour. If you can imagine what this burden is, then I welcome the government's plan that this section will be a priority and, of course, within the deadline and opportunities, it will also finally be implemented. As far as the Maribor-Gruškovje motorway is concerned, there, you know, a shamefully bad situation, even if we know that the neighbours on the other side are firmly ending their section, we are in late, and finally Gruškovje will be one of the Schengen border crossings, so that when it enters the European Union - in short, it is not a beautiful view of this road that leads to this transition today. If we were able to talk a little while ago about the joke that foreigners who drive through Slovenia to Croatia have this 18km section to get used to what awaits them on the other side, but next year because we know that the Croats will finish their part of the road, we will not be able to talk anymore. As far as to toll collection and financing is concerned, I think that I said yesterday in the letter question that in the Slovenian National Party we find such a system combined as we have today to be discriminatory; that a fairer collection system would be closed, it is said that the user would actually pay as many kilometres on the highway. I also mentioned the constant setbacks and the reconstruction works on roads that cause oppression and do not offer the driver the benefit that one highway should offer him. It would be possible here, but yesterday I was assured that the ministry should consider not counting the full toll of people who are on highways if the highway does not offer them what the highway should offer them. To the conclusion. Please take all these comments in good faith and, above all, I hope that you will also take them into account in the implementation of the annual programme as such. As I said in the introduction, we have before us a document that is not good to oppose because of the state of the roads in the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr. Willie Rezman, DeSUS, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u12	Mr. Chairman, all present. Good day and a nice hello to you, too, on my behalf. On behalf of our Group, I would like to present our position, that it is a very serious one-third of the year for which we are yet to adopt the plan, behind us and I suppose it is justified that much of what is being planned is already in implementation or at least is being prepared thoroughly, otherwise we will be late, in our Group of Members, that is, in DeSUS, we have no doubts as to whether to give support or consent to the proposal for a decision that is under consideration today. On the contrary, we will be happy to support this because it means, as the title of the document says, an important contribution to the development of some parts of Slovenia in its entirety. Some have discussed this, but from the discussions or reports that we could read, it did not appear that the mother’s working body would have any substantive substantive concerns. As far as editorial concerns are concerned, there is probably no point in repeating them indefinitely. Perhaps it would be good if we also had the position of some other interested labour bodies, because this is also a major intervention in space, important factors in regional development and an important contribution to potential economic development. But anyway, we have a really important document ahead of us, which is, perhaps, if I may say wickedly, also the number of people reported, because each kilometer will have its own, I suppose, somewhat locally coloured debater. It is particularly important because of the large financial scale we are talking about. It is important because this changes our environment thoroughly. And we need to be careful that it doesn't change for the worse, so they won't interfere, especially where we're just preparing the site plans, they're harmful. It is also important that it is available because it can contribute to faster regional development, as well as to the demographic image of Slovenia, and in particular to those environments that are somewhat empty. It is probably also important because it is one of the major contributions to better road safety and, of course, it improves the environment in which people live. The 2005 plan is, in fact, talking about the past without explicitly doing so. It discusses what has already been built in Slovenia and where these express interventions are no longer necessary. And we can look forward to moving the investment wave towards the east and towards the north of Slovenia, which have now been slightly removed from it and, of course, also in relative underdevelopment in regional development, in development. Since there were no important concerns to be understood from the discussions so far, we, from the DeSUS Group of Members, will support this. However, we would like to say that there are some things that need special attention. We also agree that the pomurski leg should have a distinct advantage, perhaps even more than is now stated in this document, if it is possible to provide additional resources, of course, for these investments to be made. We would also like to point out that, although financially this is not so important, it is probably even more important for people in their daily lives than the construction of highways that we live on and that we use more often. Therefore, we should put them at the forefront of our thinking. We would like to stress that in this way we contribute to road safety, that is, to the safety of our lives, and we would like to point out that we need to be delicate, sensitive to our environmental interventions, even when it comes to the construction of motorways. And as a conclusion, I would like to say that the solution not to safety and not to the environment is not just to build highways, but to see the solution of our road transport in the accelerated construction of railway infrastructure, which will probably make our lives easier in all these individual areas. In this respect, therefore, the DeSUS Group also supports the consensus proposed on the parental committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Ms Maria Possonec, representative of the Hungarian National Community, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u14	Nice greetings to all present. The highway program in Prekmurje has arrived with a great deal of delay, unfortunately too late, because since 1 May 2004, we are in an obsessive state. We rightly ask whether roads and people will survive this invasion of trucks. Given that the work now envisaged on the three sections of the motorway in Pomurje, we hope that everything will be ready for construction and that the road will actually be built and that is enough reason to confirm this plan. However, I note that this annual plan is not yet the story of the Premur motorways, but the emphasis is still elsewhere. It is absolutely important to note that the construction of the pomuric roads should be classified as priorities number one. We are concerned that every year traffic on the roads there increases by 50% and that we can survive it at all, we should arrange short-term measures on G13, but there is no money for this. In the balance sheet of the budget, it is necessary to provide money to do so and thus contribute to improving driving and road safety on G13. We also point out that 100,000 trucks per month are the upper limit, and this number would require rerouting of trucks across other countries. We would also point out that they are now using clay to make the road hard, which is not good, as the terrain is heavily occupied. In Prekmurje, there is enough grammes, so we want to use grammes on the prekmurje for fortification. And to conclude, I would again point out the inappropriate way of collecting the toll. This way is expensive, delayed and does not meet the nature-protection objectives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr Srečko Hvauc, SDS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u16	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues, colleagues, Mr. Minister with colleagues, welcome! I would like to present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party on the document under consideration. The document we have on the table provides that we will start building eleven new sections at a total length of 55 kilometres this year. It is also important that a variety of project and spatial documentation is being prepared, that land and property purchases are also envisaged for those sections that will be built after 2005. Financially, this is a very demanding document. If we exclude the budget, I think it's one of the hardest, if not the hardest. As already mentioned, it is 124,14 Slovenian tolars. This is such a value that it is very difficult for ordinary citizens to imagine what this means. I used to play with numbers a little bit, and I figured if we bought some middle-class cars for that money, we'd have a 250-mile column. It is also because of this financial aspect and because of the importance of the construction of motorways for development, the life of Slovenk and the Slovenians, that we have given special attention to the content of this document in our group. We know that this is not a strategic document, such as a resolution on the national programme for the construction of motorways, but it is an operational programme that allows these envisaged works, which are within a framework of the resolution, to be implemented operationally. This means that we must adopt this programme as soon as possible in order to prevent road construction or highway in Slovenia from stopping. If we look at resources and consumption, we find that consumption is covered by the intended resources or that even a positive difference is anticipated. Maybe a few words about the structure of these resources. The fact is, for one part of these or a very significant part of these resources, it is envisaged that it will be acquired by borrowing. Slovenia is not so rich that it could afford to build motorways to a large extent with budgetary resources from each year. It is an infrastructure that is built for several generations and it is perfectly logical that funding is also carried out through debt. Similar systems are used by other countries in Europe. In this way we have built motorways in the past and I am sure that in the same way that funding will also take place in the future. Members also drew attention to some problems that might not be directly or directly related to this programme, but that problem cannot be avoided. The toll collection problem has been mentioned several times. The collection of tolls on our highways is organized in a way that is not just, which is not the same for everyone. We know that some people drive for free, but some people can take advantage of the opportunity to bypass toll stations, and some people don't. This means, of course, that we do not all have the same conditions and that this system is simply not respected and we therefore call on the Government to try to implement this electronic toll collection system, for which the deadline of 2008 is currently set in Europe. Of course, the question remains once again, what is worth changing in this transitional period, or what is worth changing in this transitional period - we know that this system that we have has been developing for 10 years or more and does not make sense to change it overnight - or to wait for this transition to an electronic toll system. Since we know that the government has commissioned a study that will try to enlighten this problem, I would suggest that when the results of this study are known, the government will also inform us as soon as possible what we can expect in this area. Another such problem that has been raised by Members is the fact that not all areas in Slovenia have been given the same attention in the past, as regards the construction of motorways. This operational plan for this year at least partially improves this situation. As already mentioned, some constructions or sections are also moving to the eastern and northern parts of our country, which is said to be in Styria and Prekmurje, and perhaps elsewhere, and that is in fact what we welcome. We know that the desire and needs are much more, but given the current situation, given the available financial resources that are, we believe that such a programme, such as, is optimal and within certain options. Of course, we must not forget that road transport is not the only transport system in Slovenia and Slovenia must develop more or less evenly all these transport systems. Last but not least, the comments already made by the Legal and Legislative Service. In our parliamentary group, we have seen them primarily as some editorial corrections that the government has also made and some methodological advice on what such a programme should look like in the future, which I think will be taken into account in the preparation of the next year's programme. For this reason, of course, we will be happy to support this programme in the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group. To conclude, your opinion is that this 2005 annual plan for the development and construction of motorways follows the framework of the resolution of the national programme for the construction of motorways in Slovenia. The dynamics and location of construction suggest that construction is continuing or moving to some of the more neglected areas of Slovenia. Of course, we also simply cannot go beyond the fact that the programme is urgently needed for operational construction to continue and complete in this year's planned scale. For all the above reasons, as I have already said, our Group will support this programme. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mr Milan Friday, LDS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u18	Presidents, colleagues, colleagues! By adopting a resolution on the national programme for the construction of motorways in the Republic of Slovenia, the 2005 budget of the Republic of Slovenia, the 2004 and 2005 law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, the Law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Society for Motorways in the Republic of Slovenia and the Act on the provision of dedicated means for the construction of state roads have created optimal conditions for the implementation of tasks in such a difficult and important area for the development of Slovenia as the programme for the construction and restoration of motorways. The resolution also enables precise, transparent, building and financial investment terminals, both individually and fully, and all other necessary activities, since the comparison of the annual plan with the resolution due to the objectiveised value of individual sections and fully managed inflation is now easier than ever before. If we add to this the fact that the composition of the ministerial team, with the exception of the minister who transferred to this position from Darsa, is exactly the same as it was, the composition of Darsa is also the same as in the previous term, except for the former President's earlier departure, an apology for the late adoption of the annual programme cannot be accepted. In our view, the document should be submitted and endorsed by Parliament no later than February of this year, rather than at the end of April. It seems that this document is justifiable to our observation that it did not come to the government earlier because both the minister and the government, instead of the urgent tasks of the present, dealt with the past or former ministers and the former government. A completely new and interesting situation arises with the latest document, which we had the opportunity to get to know yesterday and has the title of the Budget Manual for the preparation of the 2005 Rebalancing Proposal, subtitled Economic starting point and consumption rights frameworks. Thus, a document prepared by the Ministry of Finance on the basis of a government decision of 13.4.2005, in which the Ministry of Investment Transfers for VAT payments, which was, of course, already known in the preparation of the annual programme, reduces or requires a change, i.e. a reduction in the annual programme for the development and renewal of motorways of 6 billion tolars. At the same time as Parliament is considering and giving its consent on the annual track, the same government that has already adopted the programme and forwarded it to Parliament for approval doubts itself about the possibility of implementing the programme and predicts a reduction in the resources for the construction and renewal of motorways. Such a move is, of course, incomprehensible and in no way acceptable and itself speaks of the non-creditability of the government. I would like to stress in particular that, at the meeting of the Committee on Transport, the LDS ministers specifically asked whether the index of 95 % and 95 % of the funds in this plan, compared with the resolution on the national programme, could be the result of the Government's request to reduce the level of the budget in the context of the preparation of the rebalancing, the response was very convincing and determined that this request had not been made and that the index 95 was more due to a partial overrun in the previous year. 14 days after that, the Minister is denied the above-mentioned document and instead of 95 % of the implementation of the resolution, only 90% will be realized, of course if such a proposal for a rebalancing is adopted, and we have no doubt about the voting machine that supports the government's decisions. However, for us this is just another argument that confirms our claim that the Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance and the Government do not fully manage public finances. Yesterday, the government or the Ministry of Transport provided us with an editorially corrected text of the annual programme, which remains unchanged in the substantive part and is therefore almost the same as originally proposed. What are further concerns about the consideration of the annual programme for the development and renewal of motorways in 2005? Individual sections of the motorway in part, by dynamics and values, deviate from those adopted in the resolution. In the annual programme, the Ministry is not sufficiently clear and detailed on the reasons for these derogations. The amount of means to restore motorways is unsatisfactory, with 19.1% less resources being allocated to this area than envisaged by the resolution; the slow implementation of the project to introduce an electronic road toll system in free traffic; the belief that not everything in the field of toll resources is done to make the amount available by the toll system. This is also illustrated by the fact that the Ministry in the programme does not namely mention toll stations to be built this year, and the Minister's replies show that it is the toll station of Krtina and Lukovica. In the resolution, the said stations Vogrsko, Ivančna Gorica and Vodice, which were envisaged for implementation in 2003 and 2004, were simply lost in the programme. Too much of the toll is intended for other purposes, not for the development and renewal of motorways. The programme does not plan deadlines for the adoption of consent laws and guarantee laws for the issue of bonds and financial credits, which will meet the conditions for the award of works on certain sections where parts will start this year. It is doubtful whether lending to LBRD is actually cheaper or more favourable than issuing bonds. All the above calls for a thorough reflection on the vote on the adoption of the annual development programme and the restoration of motorways in the Republic of Slovenia in 2005. The reasons and answers to some of the dilemmas and questions raised by the Minister, which I hope we will receive, will be the basis for the decision of LDS Members. We expect the answers to be satisfactory and, therefore, so that most of the LDS Members can agree with the proposal of the national programme.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber, Social Democrats, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u20	Thank you for your word, chairman, and a nice greeting to everyone. In the Social Democrats Group, we are concerned about the document, which is the proposal for an annual road renewal plan for 2005, for simple reasons because of the lack of clarity in the length of motorway sections and the resources to be financed by these sections. These are two key data for the 2005 annual development plan and the restoration of motorways. While we believe that the plan itself should be even more optimistic, even more dynamic should be in this programme, as we find that in fact the best resources are lacking, namely, the allocations are smaller than the resolution on the national highway construction programme of 12 billion tolars and the concession fee itself is lower than the resolution of 1.2 billion tolars, which means that we are not investing more than 13 billion tolars of the highest quality in the construction of motorways in 2005. We believe that this is one of the biggest shortcomings of this annual plan. Otherwise, we find that, in the plan itself, spending at least 3.2 billion tolars is not visible and, of course, we cannot agree with the conclusion that it is merely editorial corrections to the plan that we received on the bench or the day before today, because if we change the number of 12 and a half kilometres by number 22 and a half kilometers, it is a difference of 10 kilometers and it is not an editorial correction, but a very important substantive intervention in the development plan of motorways. And of course, the same goes for the sources themselves; it doesn't matter whether you spend and write in document 6 billion or, say, 7 billion, the difference is 1 billion, which is a lot of money. In short, this inadequacy is the one we are concerned about in this document, but we would also like to draw attention to the following fact in addressing, above all, resources for financing this annual plan in 2005. In fact, the government has taken a decision to prepare a study on the introduction of vineyards. All right and all right, but the fact is that there is not a word in this document about this study, much less about vignettes, and what if the government finds out when this study will be made, that blames are a better solution than, say, tolling, as we have today. If it finds out this, it means that it will fully fall behind the 2005 programme, as the document will be uncoordinated within itself by sources and the government, with its decision to go to this study, seriously jeopardises the development of motorways in 2005. That is why we believe that this decision of the government has been reckless or even unrealistic. Indeed, the tolling system is certainly a key part of the plan, as not only funds are provided for management and maintenance, but also for the payment of credits and liabilities arising from the already built motorway sections. Otherwise, we also note that there are no specific toll stations in the annual plan that will be updated, expanded and thus adopted more traffic, which is certainly not good, but this is a very operational annual plan, it is not a long-term plan, and we believe that this should also be very clear in this context. Otherwise, it is clear from the sources that in 2005 the funds provided for in the resolution of the national programme for the construction of motorways are substantially falling. That is, securities were projected at 61 billion in 2005, well, the annual plan itself foresees them at 26 billion, representing a 35 billion deviation from what was envisaged in the resolution itself. While this resource is replaced by borrowing, lending to the European Investment Bank and Autovia Veneto, which is likely to be possible, although there are extremely large derogations, which should probably have a greater explanation in the annual plan, why this is so, this document would become significantly more qualitative. However, this difference is not clearly explained from this document. The special chapter in sources is certainly also toll. The amount of the toll collected and the management and maintenance costs are presented only in a indicative manner in this annual programme. However, it is a matter of the fact that the National Assembly must also exercise a supervisory role over the government. And given that the government has very large powers under the new company law for motorways, this programme should also define a specific chapter showing above all the following: the amount of concession fee to be determined depending on the number of km of motorways in management, the proportion of toll roads, the number of vehicles on the motorway and the amount of tolls per km of highway. These are the starting points for the conclusion of a concession agreement between the government and Dars, and if the national assembly does not have this information, it is impossible to exercise any control over how the government decides to operate Darsa and where it actually allocates funds. We are concerned that 13.2 billion tolars of the most valuable resources from dedicated sources for the construction of motorways and from tolls will go elsewhere and not to the construction of motorways. Of course, this comparison of the length of motorways Dars has in management as well as the toll collected and the load of the roads themselves is a key information for the concession fee alone, of course this information is not clearly defined in this document. Otherwise, the annual plan should also give us more precise processing of the remaining data, notably comparing all resources of resources in the annual plan with the resolution itself, and this would also allow us to have more control in the national assembly than this document offers us right now. With all these conclusions, we would like to point out that we really want to build a highway network as quickly as possible and we reiterate that this year's programme could certainly provide greater dynamics of at least 13.2 billion tolars. That is why we believe that this programme is really not optimistic enough this year, but at the same time we want the highway programme to be done as soon as possible, as it will also be necessary to start building and modernising other state roads. We still do not have in the procedure of the national programme of other state roads, and the fact is that these sections are steadily falling apart, particularly in those areas where the climate situation is extremely acute. Unless we agree in a very short time on the pace of completion of motorway construction and the start of the reconstruction of other state roads, many places in Slovenia, which will not be on the highway, will in fact be cut off from developmental dynamics. This is what we least want with the Social Democrats in the development of Slovenia. We therefore expect the government and the ministry in particular to produce better quality materials for the annual plan, which is a truly very operational document, and, above all, we want to establish tolling as soon as possible along actual kilometres, because it will be possible to take quality documents into future and, above all, to make very clear decisions on how to build the highway network. We expect further clarifications, responses to our comments, and also in line with these responses, to be decided in the Group of Members on the support of the 2005 Plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by Mr Jožef Horvat. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr Minister, with a fellow Member, honourable Members. Slovenia has been building highways from 1970 until 1993 or the adoption of a plan paper called the National Road Construction Programme in the Republic of Slovenia, 198.4 kilometres of motorways and fast roads have been built. The national highway construction programme has laid strategic, organisational and financial foundations for the construction of the Slovenian motorway in the north-south direction, consistent with the European Transport Corridor 10, Ljubljana-Zagreb-Beograd-Skoplje-Ssolun, and is in line with the European Transport Corridor 5, Trst-Koper-Postojna-Ljubljana-Budapest, and one of the priorities for Central and Eastern Europe by 2008. The national programme highlighted as the main objectives: improving transport links, improving transport safety with reduced negative impacts on the environment, ensuring better links with the wider European space and promoting macroeconomic development, and ensuring and increasing direct economic impacts. The sources for the implementation of the motorway construction programme are the following: so-called petrol tolar within the meaning of the law on the provision of dedicated means for the construction of roads in the Republic of Slovenia, part of the toll for the construction of motorways, foreign credits and domestic credits and loans. The involvement of the Slovenian motorway cross in the European motorway network is therefore strategically linked for the Republic of Slovenia and the countries of the European Union. It is therefore important that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia carefully examine the proposal for an annual road map for 2005 for the development and renewal of motorways. In the New Slovenia Group, we have examined the document and will also support it in the light of editorial corrections of technical nature. So in 2005, construction will begin on 44.7 km of four - lane highways, on 2.3 km of two - lane roads, on 2 km of connecting roads, and on 6 km of connecting roads. This year it will be dedicated to traffic of 17.7 kilometers of four-way highways, perhaps more. Construction will continue in 2005 on 24 km of four - lane motorways and 10.7 km of two - lane roads. In Nova Slovenija we also give special importance to building an effective and fair toll payment system in accordance with European standards and using modern technologies. The financial resources for the implementation of the 2005 annual development plan and the renewal of motorways will be investment transfers, such as European Union funds and cohesion funds, concession fees, loans from international financial institutions, securities issued, bonds, value added tax reimbursements and other resources. Slovenia has been in the European Union for almost a year. European integration processes also mean, for example, an increase in freight traffic frequency at the border crossing point in the far east of our country, i.e. for factor 3 to 4 from April 2004. Frapantene data, which also surprised the transport industry. This fact eloquently excuses the accelerated dynamics of the construction of the foothill of the motorway. We therefore support the construction of the Slovenian motorway cross as quickly as possible in Novi Slovenija, but in an optimal way, especially not on the basis of the quality of construction. Motorways are not only the largest Slovenian project of the century, the first major project in Slovenia alone, which at the turn of the millennium at the transition from the industrial to the information era in the light of sonar development, could coordinate and direct key aspects of spatial, economic and cultural processes, connect the existing network of roads and cities, linking the traditional logic of migration with European transport and development flows. The motorway programme could be a bond between those universal civilizations, who no longer forget that they can stand and survive only on solid foundations of autonomous culture. Let's do everything we can to make it so. As has already been said, the New Slovenia Group will support the document under consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u23	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. I am moving on to the debate between Members and Members. As they have applied in order, the first word is Mr Anton Kokalj, Nova Slovenija. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u24	Dear President, distinguished Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Since 1993 and before the start of the new period in Slovenia, the construction of motorways has been one of the more successful projects to date. However, if we look back a little critically, we can see that the dynamics and strategy with each year were more dependent on lobbying and not so much on the principle of implementing Slovenia's basic development strategy in terms of coherent regional development. This is also the dynamic that we have witnessed and witnessed in the proposal. As a result of the strategy or resolution, the construction of motorways, which was adopted in the previous mandate, has in fact led to the current programme that we have ahead of us. The derogations are minimal and, in some ways, the proposed programme is a prisoner of what has already been established in the previous way. In this context, I would like to point out the apparent abandonment of the region of Gorenje in the past and the current programme. If we look at it in detail, Gorenjska's share in the sections that will be put on the market this year, Gorenjska is not. Sections where construction continues from 24 kilometres per year to 2.4 kilometers per year. Sections where construction begins in 2005 and will continue 10 kilometres from 55 kilometers, but this financially amounts to 3 billion of 61 billion. The involvement of Gorenjska in sections dedicated to transport from 1994 to 2004, where final work is carried out in 2005. Under the re-establishment chapter, we have only 60 million out of 2.3 billion vehicles in investment maintenance or renewal. Only 45 million out of almost 800 million in investment renovations. For investment investments in vehicles and buildings, no tolars. Investment investments in the equipment of the existing motorway network, if we look at this section, Gorenja is not mentioned anywhere, although I have to raise the issue of the old highway here because it was built before this programme, which is now on the table, anti-group fences are the issue of negotiations and talks and requests and requests for at least ten years. I ask the Minister whether the implementation of this negligible cost is not specifically mentioned throughout the programme, or whether such details are not mentioned or actually not in the plan. In view of the fact that, in view of past practice, it is not possible to make substantial changes in the current programme this year, however, I appeal that in the coming years Slovenia launches a so-called coherent regional development, which must also be clearly demonstrated through the development of the motorway network. At least once a year, I think we are headed to Planico, to Kranjsko Gora and also to Bled in summer, and I think we can count on the support of other fellow Members from this point of view, too, I will say, from similar parliamentary groups, where we know that this is sometimes the case with different views given the locality. However, I believe that Goreńska, if not for the sake of another, because of her exceptional tourist attraction, deserves more attention in the future and I promise myself that I will be very clear and loudly committed to making this planning more balanced than has been balanced so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mr Jakob Presječnik has the floor, SLS.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I think that this annual programme, which we have today under consideration or which I am sure we will also accept, is at least personally supported by my fellow Members and colleagues in our Group. I believe that this is a logical consequence, or an extract from a broader debate, which has been conducted in the past years, when this is the same, in the previous composition, the National Assembly adopted the last amendment or the last resolution on the national programme for the construction of the motorway network in the Republic of Slovenia. Therefore, I would not use the expression that this programme is some kind of prisoner, as my previous colleague used the term 'captor' of a national programme. It is, of course, an extract from the national work programme to be carried out and can be carried out for the development of this system this year. I also believe that relatively good coverage across the country is. Of course, planning for the construction of the highway network does not always allow for an equalisation of coverage across the whole area, but the national programme has already roughly defined the construction deadlines and previous preparations, so that construction is also possible. I might have responded to just one topic that seems to me to be underdefined, or, rather, not misinterpreted, perhaps even a little misdefined. In the resolution on the national programme for the construction of the highway network adopted in last year, I think we also have a so-called additional programme in February. One of these sections, which covers one beautiful part of Slovenia, is traffic, was found at the time, very far away or affected. This is Koroška, and we link to the Austrian motorway network, and it is an integral part of this additional programme. It is the connection between Koroška and Šaleshka and the connection to the motorway section of Vransko-Cele. This section is occupied. I am pleased that in these spatial discussions and transport discussions, this section, of course, continues into the so-called third development axis, the link forward to the lower highway and forward across the White Landscape to the Croatian motorway network. The former Minister of Transport has already made two moves in the preparation of this section, which are logically due to the adopted national programme. The first was the initiative to initiate the process of drawing up a national location plan, which, of course, is good, and a logical consequence, as I say. The second conclusion, if I am well aware, or the second decision is not good in my opinion, so I propose to the Ministry to change it. If I have the right information, if I don't, please, Mr. Secretary, let me correct. The point is that the guardian of this department is the Directorate for Roads of the Republic of Slovenia. I firmly believe, of course, that all those sections listed in the national programme of the highway network are a matter under our regulation, under our legislation of course Darsa, not the Directorate. I therefore propose that the custody of this project be taken over by Dars, as provided for by our legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr. Happy Friend, SNS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u28	Mr President, thank you for your floor. Dear colleagues, my friend! As has already been said, the annual development plan and the restoration of the motorway is a necessity, so we will support it in the Slovenian National Party. However, when we speak of such an important document, we also need to say the shortcomings of this. We know that the very matter we received on the table shows that a document could have been prepared in an hasty manner, namely that there were billions of financial amounts in conflict, which, of course, have been coordinated with the corrections, as we have identified on the committee. However, this is not going to be the case in the eyes, as is the way the toll is collected, which we know is also not in line with the European way. We'd like to move as soon as possible on an electronic way of collecting. This also increases the interoperability of systems and increases the flow of motorways. I think we should do this in Slovenia as soon as possible. It is said that so-called vineyards would also reduce congestion on toll duty. Performers of various parts. It turned out very badly in the Trojans that we trusted some of the works of the less-verified performers. We have domestic experts who are able, believe me, to do a service of quality, but we are giving these works to someone else, and, finally, now domestic operators are correcting in essence the mistakes of others. The only source of funding cannot be tolls in the future. We are against the fact that the only source of toll financing is. In fact, a development vision should also be devoted to this budget segment, which would also require maintenance. Last but not least, maintenance is what I'd like to stop at. Look, as soon as we build the highway, let's destroy it so quickly. Why? Because we actually only have one road connection between the port of Koper and the eastern part of Slovenia. The fact is that the heavy transit cargo we drive, the ecologically controversial cargo, the heavier transit goods from the port of Koper - we know that the port is unloading 12 million tonnes of cargo in transit, some of which is being driven across the railway, something across the road - that it is essentially destroying roads, which my predecessors have already warned about. The highway reconstruction strategy is not sufficient if we do not have a built-in attitude towards the use of these motorways. Something fast can happen that we will destroy this basic infrastructure that we have built. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber, Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u30	Thank you for your word. Construction of the highway cross will certainly change Slovenia to a large extent. The fact that we will obviously get the fifth corridor that will connect Maribor and Koper this year is indeed a very large gain for Slovenia and for all those places located near this corridor or along this highway. Sooner or later, all the other legs will also experience the possibility of further development of settlements and cities along this cross. In all of this, I am extremely concerned that too little attention is paid to both this annual programme, even at this first stage of the construction of highways with priority, connecting roads. Surely this year we should really have a national maintenance programme for other state roads, or there will be major development differences in Slovenia over the next few years. That's one problem. In particular, he would point out the area of Kočevska, which is, among all of these corridors, in fact, withdrawn or not directly related to these links, even though it shows just by updating the connecting road past Škofljica to Kočevska, a very large possibility for the road to the Slovenian Primorje to be unloaded, where we will surely meet again this year's tourist season. But something like this is certainly going to happen at least in the direction of Dolenjska. First, because the leg itself is not fully built yet, and secondly, because traffic is increasing in this direction, and thirdly because traffic is expected to concentrate on the lower leg against neighbouring Croatia or against Dalmatia. If we place a Kočevska connecting road in these two legs against the Slovenian Primorje and against Dolenjska, we would primarily unload these two legs and also open this part of Slovenia, give it the opportunity to develop further, and especially shorten the route to the Croatian highway network, which leads to Kvarner or to Dalmatia. These are also two extremely visited locations in the neighbouring Adriatic country and would have an impact on the construction of this road on even safer and more current traffic on the motorway cross itself, while, of course, allowing the development of this part of Slovenia. Therefore, I expect from the Ministry of Transport that it will closely monitor the preparation of the site plan for placement in the area of the connecting road section, or the bypass by Škofljica, as the first section, and of course encourage all those municipalities that have to provide the bypasses through their settlements, that the traffic will actually run at least 80, 90 km per hour, but not that at least 70% of the time you drive at this section from 50 km per hour, which does not belong to this year in which we are located, and it certainly does not belong to the developmental thinking of our country. I expect the Ministry to actively cooperate in the preparation of the site plan, as well as as as quickly as possible to prepare a national programme for the construction and modernisation of old state roads.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mr. Ivan Grill, SDS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u32	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Mr. Minister, representatives of Darsa, colleague and colleague! I come from Dolenjska from New City and we know that this part of Slovenia does not yet have the whole highway connection, despite the fact that this region is industrially strong and that a motorway connection is essential for the existence or development of these companies. I must say that after reviewing this annual development and re-establishment programme, I was pleasantly positive that I could also see inside the reality of the fact that the government had decided at its meeting how the road would go past Trebnje. This cut through the Gordy knot and the tunnel, where we see the light of the construction of this highway, is actually ahead of us. We know that years ago there were a number of interests and different variants that made all these things very complicated year after year. This is probably also the reason that today Dolenjska, Posavje and Bela Krajina do not have a highway, although we have Revoz, we have Krko, we have TPV, Adrio and, as we know, increasing traffic also towards Croatia. All of us coming from this part of Slovenia are glad that this whole route is finally confirmed and that the 2005 financial plan also provides funds that will allow both the location and project documentation for construction. According to the Minister of Transport, the representatives of Darsa are also provided with financial resources in a way that will allow for smooth building dynamics. Today, we see that at last the dynamics, or not just the dynamics, have begun to build a highway past the New City. This will soon be linked to this part of Dolenjska or region with Posav, which is important. And if I finally add, I will be happy to support this annual programme, but I call on both the Minister and the Directorate for Roads and Representatives of Dars to take into account the necessity in the plans for 2006 and even in later periods in order to obtain Dolenjska, Posavje and Bela Krajina as soon as possible this motorway and also all the necessary connections. We know that for the newly built motorway, we also urgently need those connections to Novo Mesto alone and other important places for this freight transport, especially freight, to take place immediately. Therefore, I ask and appeal to all those responsible that future plans will take into account that, at the same time as the construction of motorways, these connections, which are urgently needed, are also being built. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Ms Marjetka Uhan, Nova Slovenija has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u34	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! In this year’s highway development programme 2005 there are several sections of the highway on the lower leg in construction, something in the final phase. Thus, the section Smlednik - Krško, which is 4.6 km long, will be transferred to use and possibly to Hrastje - Lesnica, or at least in the spring in almost eight kilometers long, while the section of Lesnica - Kronov predicts the start of construction. In Dolenjska it is also necessary to speed up the construction of the remaining missing sections, as this requires new investments in the New Town Revoz, Adria and Krka, as well as in other fast-growing companies in Dolenjska. I am pleased that the government finally confirmed the Pluska - Ponikve and Ponikve - Hrastje route this year, so that preparatory work can begin in this area. For years and years, negotiation took place, studies of variants, comparative studies were commissioned, and last but not least, the announcement was the first one recommended by experts as the most socially acceptable and supported by the local population. How much research is needed, and how much money is spent, especially on lost valuable time. In all of this, you feel as if the government are pleasing local divisions, so that it does not have the money to build on all possible and needed ends. I don't think the current government can afford to take into account social acceptability when building. The fact is that the highway cuts right in the environment, and this is a tax paid by the direct inhabitants, despite all the positive features brought by the highway. People live behind barricades, are threatened with noise, air pollution, movement, etc., and the users of the highway care about all this. When the motorway is built, it is necessary to ensure the normal links between existing regionals on the highway, otherwise the inhabitants have no benefit from the motorway. At the same time, the current government cannot afford what happened earlier, to overrun an existing fast road, for example from Ljubljana to Trebnje, without building a substitute road for local connection. This is unacceptable and unconstitutional. And when it comes to building toll stations and switching to electronic toll collection, I have to say, despite the fact that tolls are an important source for the construction of motorways and that when this source of revenue is lost, it is even slower for a Slovenian toll worker. That is why many avoid paying and taking roads, destroying roads, and living in rural areas. For the toll alone, an ordinary worker who travels from Trebnje to Ljubljana must work at least three days a month. Roads are not returned by any company, many not by transport. Let me tell you something else. I am also called and warned by the locals, who otherwise have no connection or direct benefit to the highway, to destroy local and local roads with trucks carrying construction materials from the sandstones. I believe that such sites are entitled to compensation for damage caused on such roads or that roads should be put in place in the original situation. Otherwise, I support the highway development programme this year and hope for realisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Janez Kramberger, SLS. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! In my brief debate, I would like to join the opinion of the predecessors, who are pleased to look at this annual programme presented to us by the government. However, I do need to draw attention to some of the facts. It is also right to recall the ambitious plans we had in the past when we wanted to build a highway cross in 2000 and beyond by 2004. It is likely that both construction and construction projects have quickly found that it is much better if this process of construction of the highway cross is carried out a little longer. I think we can be satisfied if this matter is really to be fully completed by 2010. It is also important to note that in the past, when we built motorways in central Slovenia, the local communities were also those who, through change of destination, cashed large funds and built other infrastructure facilities and thus improved the infrastructure image in their municipalities. Now that highways are being built outside, so on the edge of Slovenia - here I am also thinking about Slovenian Mountains and Prekmurje - this thing has, of course, ended, and the representatives of local communities find it difficult to understand why it is different now. The state, the government, is probably unable to make up for this part by other means. I also have to mention the situation that happened after the 1st of May last year. There have been major changes on the regional road from Maribor to Lendava; probably the government and the people who live here are well aware of this. During this time, there was a significant increase in traffic. Last count shows, I think, over 20,000 vehicles a day, of which is a large number of trucks. You can imagine what this means for the surrounding population and also for the infrastructure itself used by these carriers. That is why I would like to ask the Minister and his co-workers. This dynamic of the construction of the motorway from Počehova to Pinc is now set after this last national programme by 2008. I wonder if all that is taken into account is that by this time this road will also be built. At the same time, I ask what will happen to the existing road, the regional road. After this winter, the road actually flourished in some places because it was not actually built for such traffic. In addition, I have recently received information that the Slovenian State has to pay some compensation to the Hungarian state because we have not built the motorway. I wonder if that's true or if it's just rumors. Furthermore, this national programme also states that the development of a study to examine the possibility of providing additional resources will be envisaged in 2005 and mentions concession construction. I think we already have a number of studies on concession construction from previous years, and I ask if any of the previous studies can be used. Finally, I must mention the connecting road to Lenart. You are probably well aware of this problem that in 1999, along with the determination of the southern course of the highway under the southern part of Lenart, I think that a regulation has also been adopted which provides for the simultaneous construction of the highway through Lenart. According to the latest information available to me, there are certain complications, but studies that have shown the eligibility of this busy road show that this road will certainly be justified because of traffic in Lenart on all four sides. I would therefore like to conclude, Mr Minister, and I would like to ask you if you can answer these four questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr Boštjan Zagorac, SNS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u38	Thank you for your word. In these short minutes, which I still have or have remained in the Group of Members, I might be able to touch on two other subjects which are at least of considerable importance to the Slovenian National Party. First of all, I would like to mention operators who will implement the annual highway construction programme. I hope that the current government will trust more, pay more attention to Slovenian operators, who are certainly qualified and will no longer be favoured, as already said by colleague Srečko Friend, some foreign unverified companies, which then make Slovenia waste money, time and roads not made within the agreed time frame. If you'll excuse me, many people have already touched this before me, and I would have touched Prekmurje once again. We know that this road situation is really the most chaotic in this country. According to some of the data we have heard today, about 200 trucks are being transported an hour along these roads, which is certainly very damaging to both the local road and the huge, huge environmental pollution in this area, and it is not the last time that it gets the people of this area nervous. I hope that the government will take note of the initiative we have already given in the Slovenian National Party, until the road situation is improved there, until the highway from Lendava to Maribor is built, so that trucks coming from the Hungarian side and Austria at that end will be placed on trucks or trains to their exit station from our country. I think that Austria and Germany are doing the same thing by trying to get the trucks off their roads and proposing or introducing them into their legal system and the road system to load trucks on trains. This, of course, contributes greatly to the environment itself. As far as ecology is concerned, if Austria, Germany succeeds, more trucks will collapse into Slovenia at one time interval, which will have an additional impact on environmental pollution. And if Slovenia does not follow Austria and Germany in this way, the real solutions of road trucks can also be considered introducing a so-called environmental tax in Slovenia. Slovenia is considered an important transit country, through which more than 10,000 cars, trucks and other means of transport are driven daily. In particular, this traffic tip is exacerbated during summer holidays when the convoys of vehicles are heading towards the Croatian border. In addition to having positive effects on the status of a transit country, it also has greater negative effects, particularly when we are talking about ecological threats of nature. Last but not least, if we do not address pollution reduction mainly by trucks, it will also be wise to consider introducing environmental taxes for transit transport. This is not prohibited by Europe either. As I recall, it is the European Green Directive that went into additional taxation of petrol and to allow the introduction of environmental taxes in some European Union countries, in particular on transit transport. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The word is given by Mr. Master Franz Capuder, New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u40	Your Honor! About 124 billion Slovenian tolars are planned for the development and renewal of motorways in the Republic of Slovenia this year. Of this, approximately 95 billion tolars were to be spent on construction. Such large financial resources invested in the construction of motorways must be used economically. However, they will be used economically when the product is used, in our case, section of the motorway route, when this product will be made in accordance with the applicable standards and rules of the profession. Motorways are not built for 10 years, they are built for a longer period, by the fact that the life expectancy is mainly bridge facilities on these roads between 100 and 120 years. Due to congestion and adverse weather conditions, it must be carefully planned and, of course, carefully carried out. The builders warn that they often have to work under impossible construction conditions. In bad weather and severe cold, it is not possible to build quality, but unfortunately all too often this happens because they are practically forced to build in an unquality way with abnormally short hands. The quality of the work carried out depends largely on the cooperation of the construction engineer and the quality control providers. In view of the mistakes that all too often occur immediately after the start or immediately after the completion of the works on individual sections, I believe that this cooperation does not always occur or that insufficient money is devoted to the implementation of quality control. From the proposed plan, it was not possible to see how much of this money was per section. However, the second area that I would like to touch in my debate is the management of highway infrastructure mainly through highway crossings. Chapter 3 of the proposed 2005 motorway development and renewal plan shows that approximately 2.3 billion are earmarked for re-establishing motorways or motorways and 788 million for investment renewals and 556 million tolls for investment. In my opinion, and this position is shared by the profession, these funds are too small and amount to about 2% of the funds allocated for construction. The funds for this purpose need to be increased significantly in the future, as it has been behind us for more than 10 years since we started the accelerated construction of motorways in the Republic of Slovenia. This, however, is the period when the start-up bridge facilities need to be monitored more intensively and remedial of possible injuries. The fact is that damage to the buildings is caused by insufficient regular maintenance, project solutions in the past and increased traffic and basic loads on our motorways. The first sections of the motorway in the Republic of Slovenia were built in 1972. Since then, more than 30 years have passed and most facilities have not been well maintained during this period and traffic has increased significantly during this period. For which some of these facilities have only been discovered in the last decade that they have been severely damaged and that they do not provide sufficient safety for users of motorways. More severe damage to the facility or even damage to a severely damaged facility can lead to a traffic collapse in the tourist season at such a section. It is also not clear from the annual plan how much money is spent on running and regular maintenance of motorways. I assume that the funds are provided in the budget of Dars. As I drive through Slovenian highways, I find again and again how poorly the bridge facilities on the motorways are maintained. Supportors regularly cut grass, restore and replace refractory and protective fences, and restore floor signallings. Rarely, however, small errors are addressed at bridge facilities. Sometimes it would just be enough to clean the shaft or replace the drain pipe, which costs several thousand tolars, to prevent injuries that require the complete rehabilitation of the facility. However, rehabilitation requires millions of financial resources, and for us users the highway is disruptive because it interferes with the normal traffic flow on highways. The plan for the development and renewal of motorways in the Republic of Slovenia for this year also foresees the completion of the side toll station in Krtina and Lukovica. Thus it must be said that the construction of the side toll stations on Krtina was not envisaged in the original location plan, since this plan was adopted under the conditions of the municipalities Moravče, Domžale and Lukovica, which excluded the construction of these stations. Therefore, I was disturbed by the statement made by the Ministry or Dars on the Transport Committee that Krtina's toll station was envisaged for the location plan. I think such a statement means misleading the public. At the same time, I cannot pass the temporary suspension of works at Krtina's toll station, which I think was politically triggered at the local level in order to be liked by voters. These same people who triggered this withdrawal or suspension of works had previously participated in Parliament's decision-making in the construction of additional toll stations throughout Slovenia. It is a feeling that the state road policy in the area of the rescue of access to Ljubljana has acted in an entirely uncoordinated way, after two completely separate routes. The first direction taken by Dars, which sees only a stable and permanent source of funding in the establishment of the toll station, and the second aspect seen in the Republic of Slovenia Directive for roads operating with other state roads and providing them with adequate traffic safety and permeability. I cannot understand that the planners of the toll station on Krtina and Lukovica have completely overlooked the very obvious fact that the construction of the toll station on Krtina will once again increase the flow of road traffic on the state network, which will dramatically exacerbate traffic security on the route Lukovica - Ljubljana, and especially on all the side roads in the municipality of Domžale. An additional increase in traffic along the regional road 415 - Zagorje, Moravče, Želodnik can also be expected after completion of the motorway via Trojan in August this year. As most drivers are expected to avoid toll payments, which in any case will increase, most traffic from Zasavje will be diverted through Moravč. The fact that this road on most of the route, especially in Moravča, does not have elements of the connecting road on the highway, should be clearly noted here. Avoiding the toll connection to Krtina will, in my opinion, lead to total chaos at the Domžala connection. Therefore, from the point of view of transport security policy, I think it is entirely a mistake to set up stations on Krtina and in Lukovica. Given that these toll stations will operate for a relatively short period of time, according to Darsa there by 2008, I also rightly question the financial usefulness of such an investment. At the same time, we must not forget the promise made by the State to the people of the municipality on this highway that there will be no such toll stations. Also because of this, especially for the sake of fairness to all users of the motorway, I support Dars' intention to introduce as soon as possible an electronic toll system that will ensure free traffic flow and will ensure fair and fair payment after a mile, of course at an acceptable price for the towed mile and not as high as we pay today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Marinič, SDS, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u42	Thank you so much for saying that. A nice greeting to the Minister with his co-worker and a nice greeting to all Members and Members of Parliament! The proposal for an annual programme for the development and renewal of motorways for 2005 should be addressed through editorial corrections to the text. Talking about the substantive revisions of the plan, while not taking into account the resolution of the national programme for the construction of motorways, there is no real basis for rejecting the plan this year. One of the Members has already said today that it is expected that almost every Member in this year's development and renewal plan sees its own environment. That's exactly right. I also see the urgent need to look for opportunities to provide additional sources of funding, especially for the sections of Slivnica-Drazenci and Drazenci-Gruškovje. Also, one of the fellow Members has already mentioned this section, and I myself, coming from this environment, cannot help but overshadow this critical one, not to say in the summer season and at the time of the alarming occurrence of all these sheets, which are running along this narrow and time and traffic extremely inadequate road. It is difficult for me to imagine that Slovenia will take over control of the southern European border almost two years before the envisaged construction of the Drazenci-Gruškovje section. At the same time, it should be noted that monitoring at the southern European border will be difficult if the following plans do not provide for the regulation of road infrastructure from Logatc to Zaqrec. I am convinced that the government that has undertaken field work has the opportunity and opportunity to face problems in the road infrastructure of the wider Slovenia. I am sure that the government's work will also run in this direction to change and improve traffic conditions on Slovenian roads in the following plans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr Rudolf Petan, SDS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u44	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary, Director Darsa, others. In planning development and renewal of the highway is, of course, the most important thing for everyone is what you can see, it is called the kilometers of the black asphalt. In this light, however, the environmental aspect is neglected, which of course is not visible directly, and it begins long before we even get any black asphalt, and therefore, of course, it does not receive so much attention. In the long run, however, this is just as important as the miles of asphalt. But this may be a story for more time. I'd like to draw your attention to one other problem, which is I'm going to talk about the tolls. In the past, when we started building highways, we have not yet said that the cross, we set up a closed toll collection system, which, I think, worked well for all users and was fair to the users of the highway, as we had at the time. Today, so many years later, it turned out that the system was very good at all and that it is even in line with European directives, with guidelines in the European Union. Later, for strange reasons, we gradually introduced a combined system with a little open, little closed, a little free, and at home we could say that we made this good closed system a big shit nest. Many say that we went to another system from a well-managed system that functioned from a closed system to an open system, so they say, because some wanted to get there by the weekend without paying the toll. I wouldn't put too much on it, but there's some fire in every smoke. The fact is, we had a good system that we destroyed. Here I would like to emphasise what I think is the essence of this open system and frontal toll stations, that this system is basically unfair and that users are in an unequal position. Those residents who live in areas where such a toll station is located must pay every meter on the highway. Others who live somewhere in the middle don't pay for anything. Let me give you an example. Road station Fighting at Slovenian Horsemen, we just have to pay those who are there close, to the nearest exit or entrance to the Dramalje, that's a good 5 km, all. The same if we drive to Celje or if we drive to Maribor. Those who drive from this station Dramalje to Šentrupert, which is 10 times that long, pay nothing because there is no frontal toll station in between, and there are no entry-exit stations. The same is true of Styria v Maribor. We were doing damage when we were liquidating a good infrastructure system, removing toll stations, input-output stations, and installing new toll stations. Today, the matter is that foreigners also know this matter, and when they arrive from Prekmurje, they simply do not go to the highway or just for 2 km, then they go to Slovenska Bistrica from the highway and they arrive in Tepanja or continue to drive through the Battle of Slovenian Konjice and thus burden local roads and the country gets nothing paid. Although I don't have the latest survey of how much traffic we're doing because of this, how much local traffic is on the highways and no tolls are paid, but I think that 70% of tolls are lost, that only 30% is paid, maybe not as much if we figure out how much is paid at these entrance stations, where all of the people who are gravitated have to pay. What does that mean? This means that all those who have this privilege, that we are at the toll station and we have to pay every kilometer, pay a significantly higher price than would be necessary if all the users of the highway, I say, all the users of the highway, paid, the toll could be lower and would happen exactly the opposite. Not that everyone would be looking to avoid a toll station, a leading toll station, but because of the lower cost, probably everyone would go to the highway because they would come faster, the ride is safer, it's more comfortable. But today we have exactly the opposite. Of course, we also have a high toll payment, which is twice wrong. The next thing I would like to stress is that those who think that the introduction of electronic tolling will not be corrected. Because we're going to have to have an input-output infrastructure, and we don't have it right now, and we're going to have to build it. We've already had it, and of course we've eliminated it. By saying that we are going to introduce an electronic toll with an apparatus that has a higher frequency, we are not going to solve this. Nevertheless, we will have to build an input-output infrastructure. And if we don't do it, we'll still be in the same condition as we have today to avoid highways instead of all looking for highways. Because we can avoid it. Because this system allows us and the system is so built that we avoid tolls. Let him understand who he wants. What is most interesting, however, is the system which the European Union rejects. In the European Union, the principle of equality, even before the law, has prevailed before payment of the toll, if we want you to pay as much as you transport, as much as you use the highway. Venetos are probably some emergency solution that Austria has just received as an exception in the European Union. Otherwise, I will support this proposal before us, but due to to tolling, I have similar concerns as I have had so far. And I've always supported this plan. But this toll problem remains, so I wanted to point him out. Now in my debate, I did not want to highlight old sins, but I would just like to point out that in these matters, which we have done after stupidity, we have to learn something so that we do not continue to design the frontal toll stations, but then we will, I don't know, get rid of them. In addition, I think that the country that has on, I don't know, a mile away, or 10 kilometers away, we're at 100 kilometers the most frontal toll stations. I've never seen this in Europe. And we should think about that, too. Besides, these frontal toll stations aren't cheap at all. In this way, I will support this proposal of agreement on the annual development plan. However, I would like to see this toll problem, as others have said, reach those who decide to give birth to this grain in order to learn something from it and that the country would also have, from this point of view, that all citizens would be equal before the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr Christian Janc, SLS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Good-bye. Thank you for your word. President and Minister, board member Darsa, colleague and colleague! An extremely important document for Slovenia. For the first time, of course, I will support him as a Member. I think I will be happy to support it for a number of reasons that are good for Slovenia, which are good for all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. And not least, which is very important for the faster development of the economy. I don't think there's anyone in this room who wouldn't support it. This project is extremely important for Slovenia and I would like to see this motorway cross completed as soon as possible, that however, this happens, that Slovenia will also come closer to developing Europe, the European Union, so that somehow we will also move forward with those who have this infrastructure long ago. The Transport Committee had a very lively debate on this subject. I have to say that not so much substantive, because in a way, with this proposal that the Government has adopted and the Ministry of Transport has prepared, somehow everyone has agreed and that changes or minimum derogations have not been so disturbing. Some of these concerns had a legislative and legal service in terms of editorial corrections, which were not as important and, after all, the Ministry of Transport coordinated them on the basis of these corrections, so that I think this thing is not so neat. However, it is a more pressing issue, which has already been raised several times today, tolls, collection and, of course, the speedy establishment of this electronic toll system, which would be more equitable for all users of such infrastructure, in accordance with some European regulation. Which model is optimal, the best? This is where they work, as far as I'm concerned, our experts do. To detect hot water, I think, is unnecessary and timeless. I think it's necessary to do this because today we have road users who pay the toll, and users of motorways who don't pay the toll. This can be very controversial from such a different point of view. And if we settle this issue once on a model that the world and Europe know, we can have lower tolls and, in my opinion, more road money in this budget, which we still need. I hope that this ministry will be part of this task and that, as the Minister has already indicated, these matters will be dealt with as soon as possible and of course in a qualitative manner in accordance with all the concerns that such or different models have and will come with a new variant before Slovenian toll users who will be fairer. But I have to say that I also want from this point of view to finish this story as soon as possible. 9, 10, I don't know what the dynamics will be, but after experience, certainly before 10 or 9, even because this country will devote itself more to the regional flows, which are also extremely important for Slovenia, especially for those regions that are not affected by this cross. It's a big handicap. Those municipalities, regions that certainly have this connection have a better, better option, easier to obtain new entrepreneurs, business zones and so on than those municipalities and regions that do not have this road cross or are not touched by the highway. That is why I think it is important for development, and if we are talking about decentralisation, if we are talking about the polycentric development of the Republic of Slovenia, these regional links are still important. We know that those who come from those regions, such as Posavje, Zasavje, White landscape and so on, these connections are extremely poor, so development is also slow or even dying on meals and, of course, those who have these connections, development is strengthened, rich, which is also perfectly logical. Therefore, I believe that the Minister-General, that the third development axis, which has already been mentioned, is one of the future projects of the Slovenian State. If this highway cross ends, the 2010 anniversary has already been mentioned, then today we need to start thinking about what we are going to do after 2010. And this project, which, in my opinion, "drinks waters", is important for five statistical regions, important for most of Slovenia and certainly has broad support, I believe that it will also have all the support in the government and parliament when this time comes, and yet, at that time, the completion of this cross is the time to start to realize this with documentation, with the preparation of those basic rules of the game as it began for the highway cross in Slovenia and that after 2010, it would be possible to approach this third development axis, which has also been built-up, corrective and other professionally addressed to that part of Slovenia, which also wants to develop and wants to develop in the same way as those municipalities, regions that will receive this much-need highway cross. I wish you great success in this and also to really move from words to actions and that even less developing regions will get the infrastructure where the road comes first. Not only for the needs of the citizen, but for the development of regions and republics as such. And if that is what we want, then we will also support and support this project, because it is in the interest of most of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr Aloise Sok, New Slovenia, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u48	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Mr. Secretary and coworkers. Without roads, there is certainly no economic development, and I must say that I have been hearing more or less the same debate for the fifth year or fifth time in this National Assembly. Thus, the debate on how to speed up the construction of motorways in the Republic of Slovenia, of course, always puts us in the area of other road infrastructure, how all road infrastructure should actually be connected to a network, and in fact that in the Republic of Slovenia these motorways, which we are building today and what we call the project of the century, should have been built 30 years ago if we wanted to follow the development of Europe at that time. Europe built highways 30 years ago, and for these reasons, of course, we now had to finish this project very quickly during this period, but the national programme for the construction of motorways, which we last adopted as a resolution - I think for the third time - has been adopted as it is. What needs to be said at this point is that this programme, which is ahead of us, is actually in line with this national programme. That's what I'm trying to say. This year relatively quickly, we are already adopting this programme in April. I remember that during the time of the previous government we usually adopted the programme in October, that is, when most of the year was behind us and so we confirmed something back, so, of course, this is great progress. The Minister here said that the construction between Maribor and Kopro will be completed this year, of course we are all very happy. This section across the Trojans will be open to this information, which is now available in August, but on this occasion I would like to say something beyond that. What's happening to us, because of this construction, is stopping you, I don't know, on weekends, every Friday and every Monday - it's a shame, but I think it's going to happen to the Ministry of the Interior. I just don't understand as a user of this road that on Fridays and Mondays the police aren't helping to regulate traffic. There's just no cops on the road. And since they're not there, I can tell you that drivers are acting very well, they're running across the lane and so forth, and then, for these reasons, there's often collisions, car accidents, which then adds up to cause all the problems. So, as Minister of Transport here, I urge you to do a part of the effort in this direction and that, however, our police at these corners on the road help to maintain order. I think that if we did so, we would be able to make a significant improvement in this construction. It's impossible to wait, say, three-quarters of an hour, an hour so you can get off the freeway and then pay the toll, not a little bit. We somehow need to understand, but I don't know how the foreigners understand it and how they will understand it in the tourist season ahead of us. Please do something, but there's something you can do. I like that the government has decided - this is what the previous government has announced and the current government is also driving on in this way - to speed up the construction of the pomurski arm, because the situation in this part is actually worse from day to day. But I would also like to draw attention to something that, in fact, I cannot understand. In fact, the owners of trucks that have registered their activity in the area between Ptvova, Ormož and Ljutomer inform me that the cargo must use the road via Maribor to Gornji Radgona and that the police write to them offences if they use the road through Ormož against Ljutomer. I also received a letter in this regard from the Ministry of Transport, where I was informed that roads through Ljutomer and Križevec do not allow the mayor to use them. Well, that's the kind of thing I can't agree with. Mayors don't own roads and the mayor can't decide because the road will be used. The problem is, Mr Minister, that you need to change traffic signalling and then release this road in part at a time when construction is under way for partial freight traffic. However, there can certainly be no issue of use for local carriers, because if they are forced to drive through Maribor, then you need to know - and you will not misunderstand me - that they work for a 100 km longer journey, which we know what it means in competitiveness. With these written questions, I have already addressed both the Minister of Internal Affairs and the Minister of Transport, and I hope that you will also find a wise solution in this matter, that these complications will not occur, and that what is happening in Gornja Radgona today will not happen, that there will be a car coffin running across the city. So this needs to be arranged and then in Upper Ragon, Mr Kampuz will not have such reasons for this great outcry. What will we do after 2010 in Slovenia? Of course, it won't be a problem if we don't have anything to build. If not, and I have already warned about this in the previous term, these two-passengers, which are now being built, will quickly need to be transformed into tri-passengers. If you travel across Europe today, you can see that they're spreading roads. I would again, because in the previous government I was not successful with my proposal, appeal to you that where highways have not yet been built, think about it and at this point you are planning crossing facilities within such a range that we will someday, in the near future - and probably not for long to come, then we will be able to extend highways to tripasses. Now that I'm driving on this foot from Styria, all over the bridge facilities will not allow the construction of the third lane, but these bridges will have to be torn down. I know this is going to be a big business for construction operations, but I don't know what we're going to have with citizens and citizens, especially forever empty and underfull state-owned cash registers. So, I would like you to think seriously about this initiative, and where possible, this possibility that this third belt could actually be upgraded. I like it very much that there is also finally a solution in this work, but we are all, as far as the roads, the local patriots and I myself - that there is a solution to the border of Prague. This railway was first promised to be built in 1998. Thank God, it's built now, but I have a thought, it's very narrow. On each side it is limited by an iron fence. Here, of course, if you drive like drivers, you can't get to a different place than a major accident if someone chooses to rush carelessly into scissors, as we like to call it. Well, the road is very narrow. In addition, another level crossing along the Polish road was made, and I had already seen that it was an accident. As soon as this road was open, I said to myself, it's going to be a black spot, there's going to be traffic accidents in this place. And recently, I think three weeks ago, there was a car accident actually in that place. I don't know why it wasn't working out, whether it was still in the plan to get that Polish road down and go down. I would like, of course, to see this Ptuj railway too speed up the construction process, because there is an unsustainable situation on Ptuj. Over one single bridge, 40,000 cars are rolled daily and every Monday morning, then on Friday afternoon, what is happening in Blagovica is also happening in Ptuj. So I would like to get you there, too, by means of the internal ministry, to hire our police to help regulate traffic, because people are looking for different side roads and then they're on the main road for a mile, two or three columns, and of course it's not going anywhere. With the help of the police, this could be more current. Above all, I would like to see this viaduct built as soon as possible, because it will then be a solution. Perhaps this would have been the case if we had not misinterpreted the construction of this link between Slovenian Bistrica and Ormož in the past. For I am always convinced that the most critical sections must first be resolved in this section, this is also the welfare of the country, and then go along the road, as is now recorded in the national programme. And there's one more thing I'd like to point out. Unfortunately, this national highway construction programme has not fully reached the FYR motorway. At the moment, the situation is such that it is planned between Slivnica and Dražnica and there remains another small part. If we are talking today about concessions and the possibility of concessions in the construction of any motorway section, then the freeway is certainly and I would ask you, Minister of Respect, to consider making some effort and trying something more and also to accelerate the construction of this section by means of concessional construction. So, since I'm running out of time, I'm gonna get it over with. We will support this programme and, of course, all these comments are well-intentioned and I think they can help solve some problems in this construction and construction itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr Anton Anderlich, LDS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u50	Your Honor! When we talk about the annual programme for the construction and development of motorways, of course, we are talking about a piece, some extract from a programme called even a national one, the resolution is called, and fortunately over several mandates, several mandates in the coalition, several mandates of governments, several mandates of parliaments. It is understandable that in these discussions there is, as some say, a concern for a local environment. I have been fortunate enough to have never had an inch of my road and the need to cheer for any particular one, because I have always come out and I still assume that the national highway construction programme is composed and installed and also three times repaired at some of the starting points called national economic needs, which concern traffic security, concerning the accuracy and potential for the development of individual regions and ultimately, in addition to the communication of the local population within Slovenia, even for transit, because we know that we are in transit. However, since there is clearly much more to be done than money is intended for or can be spent every year for this purpose, it is necessary to take a closer look at how a national programme or resolution, one of the rare documents which is in fact the same as some of the corrections prepared by the profession, was carried by Dr. Jan Oplotnik and prescribed so on. But you won't believe it - this is the first set of issues that I want to talk about, because I have to leave last year's agenda aside, it is fundamentally a departure from priorities, as set out in this resolution. Nothing, I don't, and I don't want to talk about specific things, I don't want to talk about the fact that last year a connecting road was open far into town, with expensive investment, undercarriage, with a second connection, and that the resolution envisaged, say, 800 million, and in the annual programme a billion 200 - why, therefore, is it something else. I can talk about a number of other things, compare the table on page 9 by numbers and compare the resolution and you will find out for yourself. I don't want to talk about specific things like I said. I know it would be right, yesterday, today, to build all highways in Slovenia, as planned for the first time, life changes, things change. The representative of the Ministry speaks on a committee, in a magnetogram, which is the biggest transport problem in Slovenia. They focus not only on accelerated dynamics, but on the other most important, which is the right priority, but also on a third priority area, which is not in any studies of traffic safety, impermeability, etc. As a matter of priority. Check it out, calculate it, compare it. Of course, because that is the case, I believe, and it is fortunate that there are changes in governments, in Parliament, that these things can be addressed, even if they cannot follow the criteria of the professional basis, the counting of traffic, traffic safety and all other things, to be corrected by at least the daily policy measures. I hope, of course, that on the other hand, what I'm really worried about and what I wanted to talk about, things are going to get better, but I'm going to save it for the end. See, the discussion on tolls is as long as the tolling or construction of motorways in Slovenia takes place, from the fact that an option has been lifted and adopted in the assembly, then Demos, that he demanded the acceptance of the toll cancellation and was also decided, in the assembly or during the initial period of the introduction of the new state, to the experiments that were undertaken. Of course, I understand that some can see in the Austrian case, even in Switzerland, which is not an EU member, but a better solution. But the Minister declares: "This will also give us an answer in which direction Slovenia should go when introducing the future toll system. I would like to say that a directive has been adopted in Europe, which obliges members of the European Union to use the toll system, to provide payment," because it is a magnetogram, is not running, "which ensures payment under the so-called criterion of a km of motorway. And Slovenia is going this way." So whether it is necessary to hold public debates in the coalition contract on whether or not we will introduce blames. "My answer," I quote the minister, "is - no, because we have undertaken some duties." Why are we now doing studies on the introduction of vinjets? Will we again, as someone has said today, undermine the toll stations in Vransk and not know where, as we have done in Celje, the Dramal and I do not know where else, so that we will temporarily introduce a system for which again the question is how much will it cost. For last October, it was envisaged that the Toros would be experimentally started by introducing, so to speak, tolling without stopping. In this document, the force is modestly written about what to do with tolling, except for the general conclusion that we are developing, that we have ordered studies, and that they will once be done. I would like to ask: at what stage they are - and I ask that this answer be given today - at what stage of this study, whether the contract is concluded on time, because if it is this year, then it will probably be May, June, August, September, because if you have a contract, then you probably know when this system should be installed. [[...]] And wouldn't it be better to focus on this system, which obviously some definition is already in the government if I quote the Minister's statements at the committee meeting, but that there is still some illusion, that it is possible to introduce vineyards and everything will be resolved. I'm sure it won't be solved that way. Of course, since this is still related to a set of funding issues, that essential problem will arise. According to the contract and the financial plan, 17 billion 300 million is expected to be income from this title. At first sight, there's a tremendous amount of noise. But since the whole design has been made from the first national programme by means of temporary borrowing of credits, issuing bonds and thus slowly establishing a system - and the calculations have been made to do so - where road users will simply pay the toll from which we will repay the credits. This year's loan commitments are 20 billion 322 million and other liabilities, for servicing and so on, another 7 billion. So, 28 billion 96 million is liabilities that we just have to deduct immediately from the figure that is supposed to be in the budget or in this annual programme, or ultimately depending on the balance, what the figure is going to be. It is also interesting that you do not mention anywhere in this document how much you will collect in this year’s toll. I can only conclude from a resolution of the national programme where 34 billion of these tolls are to be collected. This means that only the costs of collection and even the smaller part of this collection cost 17 billion - a large amount of money for toll collection. For investments in equipment, for a new toll system and so on are items that are outside of what is happening for the part of the company that operates, because after being merged into a single company in the past year, this is part of the company that is in the same company, which is dedicated to collecting the toll, if of course this data is correct, 17 billion. Or tell us how many planned tolls will be actually collected this year. It bothers me that the structure is based on two sentences that you may not have actually noticed. However, in 2005 the European Investment Bank is expected to draw on 10 billion loans and so on to finance sections of Hrastje-Leshnica, Korenitska-Pluska and Podtebor-Peračica. Listen to this sentence: "The condition for drawing credit is the ratification of the guarantee contract concluded between the Republic of Slovenia and the EIB." We don't have this guarantee contract yet, it's not in the process yet, you're building a construction on it! By the way, we're wondering why you're not hiring a department loan this year that was put on the market last year. So something's wrong. The facility was delivered last year, and you're renting credit. It's a construction, of course. Then the so-called cohesion. I would like to know explicitly where, in which document is really defined or you expect to be defined, the transfer of 6.4 billion assets from last year to this year. It appears differently in your documents: there is once a cohesion of 4 billion 500, which I read by means of public information that the funds for this year are provided, but I do not have a compensation of 6.4 billion. That's what I'm saying from another point of view, from what I've been saying, how we're going to pay our debts. It's no problem to say, we'll take a new loan, we'll issue bonds, and we'll cover it. But that's gonna have to be paid tomorrow. And I believe, and I know we don't work for one generation. It is not right, however, that, after unnecessary and excessively burdened ten and more years after these roads are built, descendants, for some of the roads that were built before 1994 and after 1994 require serious interventions, renewal, as we ourselves see every day. So that too must be financed. So that things that are in this financial plan or so-called annual programme have quite a few questions in themselves, at least I would like to answer these questions. It's also because it's in the public eye, for example, it's a delusion or it's just a mistake. For example, I read in the newspaper Finances, sections where they'll start construction this year. There are numbers, there are dates, etc., and on the top it says "vir-Dars". There's paper on the table that's different. I want this to be coordinated. Here I do not want to trouble this construction project because I know that this year, even if we do not accept it, all that is envisaged will be built or built because a temporary plan for financing the construction of motorways was adopted in December 2005. It was accepted by this government; and so it is. It's the same thing as building and working. It's just, you know, to think that something can be written, that something is translating that number, but it's not right. They need to be explained, you need to know what we're doing. I would therefore like to ask this in addition to those specific questions - because I think that Mr Vidic spoke about this on the Committee, saying, "But as regards the structure of the funds, generally speaking, this year is more budgetary allocations or investment transfers than in 2003 and 2004, which is encouraging." That's not true. These papers here show no. These papers show no. Because if we look at the 2004 budget, if we look at the 2005 budget, which will now be with the instructions, and I want to know about this set, what you mean - I think this has already been said, but how do you plan to harmonise it now, bring in the 6.4 billion that is supposed to be the 2004/05 transfer, and how do you plan to meet these reduction requirements - I think it says in these instructions - 6 billion in the title of the motorway. Not that anyone thinks I'm complicated, but I just want to prevent this from happening on my own, so that I don't believe that this will really be done, the money won't, and that the first president of the Slovenian government in this room will eventually prevail: "If it's round, it'll be a shovel, but if it's tricky, they'll be fairies." Which means as much money as there is, there's gonna be so much music. I know it will come to an end, but Dars is an economic society that has its own plan, which has its own obligations, which also has legal resources and so on, and it is right that these things are done transparently. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u51	Thank you very much. The word is given by Mrs. Cvetka Zalokar Orazem, LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u52	Thank you very much. In the annual programme under consideration today, they are reintroduced into the financial programme, including the construction of side toll stations. Two of them are specifically mentioned, Lukovica and Krtina. As long as this realization occurs - and everything shows that this will be so, as construction works are already going on intensively - then it will be a great professional and moral stain in all those who have decided on it. It will also be just a pebble in the mosaic of the unimaginable, unprofessional and individual environments of a very unfair toll system in Slovenia, which we have heard a great deal about today. Years ago, those who care about finances found that the largely open toll system in Slovenia did not produce adequate results, so that sufficient toll funds were not collected. They were therefore looking for a solution to build so-called additional toll stations in some places, which was also confirmed in 2002. These are supposed to be Lukovica, Krtina, Vogrsko, Ivančna Gorica and Vodice. Later, the founders of this idea found that it would be difficult to do so, since they could not have been placed in the space after the provisions on the site already adopted had been adopted, so it was completely unprofessional to suggest that the said toll stations could be built as auxiliary facilities in accordance with the amendments to the building law, and that they would later have regulated the regulations at government level in such a way that they did not actually need any consent or permission, since they were supposed to be in the position of the inspectorate, in the public interest. I'm not going to talk about the absurdity and professional weakness of this solution. The State has prepared the rules for itself and thus can build toll stations without being mentioned in the regulations on the location plan, nor do they have any other agreement. In addition, it is unusual to place sensitive objects so demanding and environmentally sensitive in a room without any criteria, standards, environmental impact assessments and so on, as all other citizens and citizens know, whenever we meet constructions, how complicated these procedures are. And I also said it was an immoral act, which is why. Let me explain on the case of the toll station in Krtina. At the time of the adoption of the location plan regulation in 1996, all representatives of the State, both the Transport Ministry, Darsa and the Environment Ministry at all public assemblies and presentations of the document claimed that there would never be toll stations in this area, so they placed the road close to the settlements and claimed that it must serve both transit transport and intra-regional connections. Today they don't want to hear anything about it. All that matters is the financial gain. They are not interested in the expected uncontrolled outflow of traffic due to the diversion of payments to regional and local roads, as this is nevertheless a problem facing local communities. And in the end, a few more questions. Why does construction of disputed, additional toll stations not wait until the results regarding the introduction of vignettes are known? The cost of building the toll station of Krtina is more than 500 million tolars and for the construction of all other toll stations is 1.4 billion tolars in this programme we received yesterday. Is the study on the introduction of vinjet perhaps, Mr. Minister, who is not listening, just a blind maneuver for the naive and the crowds? Why is it preferable not to accelerate the expected and coordinated electronic tolling system with Europe, since it is the only long-term and lasting introduction of fair and fair tolling along miles? You say electronic tolling at the end of 2008. It's essentially too late. If there was real will, it could, at least in those sections where the currently open toll system is opening up the most problems and about which there were a lot of speeches here today, be introduced already in 2006. Then it would show all the senselessness and irrationality of short-term solutions, which cost several billion each year, say, a billion 400 for side toll stations in this year's programme, which will later have to be demolished. Obviously, the taxpayers of Slovenia will also pay for this. And, of course, I also want to know why, since the original five additional toll stations, Mr Minister, only two of those mentioned in the programme are going to be built, although all five toll stations should be built, I think already in last year. By what criteria, by what standards, and by whom has it been decided that only Lukovica and Krtina are being built, and the other five are not being heard today? In view of the current situation with regard to the only motorway imports in Domžal, which covers the hinterland of more than 50,000 inhabitants, including all the influx from Moravian Valley, which the colleague has already talked about, and of course also from Kamnik and the surrounding area, and with the expected additional tides due to the new toll stations being built, another new toll imports are becoming necessary in the Study, which is already installed and planned in the location plan regulation, and it will need to be included as soon as possible in my assessment of the construction plan. We expect you to do this already in the 2006 plan. At the end of the day, allow me further commendation. I am very pleased that in the 2005 programme it is already part of the funds for projects and the purchases of so-called Menish bonds, or part of the Želodnik-Vodice road. This is a necessary and necessary measure, since irregular traffic through the Municipality of Mengeš also has a wider impact on traffic flows throughout the region. Maybe a few more issues with a colleague. With regard to his debate in which he wished to draw attention to the lack of intentional action and electoral action at the local level related to the toll station in Krtina. I can say that both the municipality of Domžale and myself have always and everywhere opposed the construction of additional toll stations, which you can see in two ways, with magnetograms existing in the National Assembly, and with amendments made to the annual highway construction programme in 2002, when these toll stations first appeared in the annual programme. Unfortunately, I received only 15 votes in favour of this amendment from my colleagues and colleagues. It is true, however, that I supported the entire 2002 motorway programme, which is also logical, given that this motorway programme, however, contained much broader and more important things in the Slovenian scale, such as this toll station alone, which is of exceptional and invaluable importance for the local space. I would also like to say that, the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, except for two short periods, several months, has never run a department or the Ministry of Transport or Darsa. And I think that colleagues who want to put this problem on the table at all times and everywhere should be more precise and fair about these things.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr Michael Prevc, SLS, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u54	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Dear Minister, representative of Darsa, distinguished colleague and colleague! I will, of course, support the 2005 motorway construction programme, in particular from the point of view, because I think that we must be satisfied that this programme is more or less following the resolution of the national programme on the construction of motorways; it is said that this is about a 5% deviation from the envisaged implementation. I think such a program is certainly worth supporting. Of course, like many of my colleagues before me, it is normal for us to look for solutions in this programme for our areas and for our regions. I come from Gorenjska myself, something that has already been said about the fact that the construction of the highway for Gorenjska is actually quite well fed. I would just say that I am not so worried because this programme shows that those key problems of building highways in Gorenjska are being solved, that is to say, it is part of the project technical documentation and spatial arrangements, so that I am not even worried at the end of the stage that in some time these motorways will also see the plan. I'm worried about something else. What has been mentioned to some extent today is, in fact, connecting roads and highways related to the construction of motorways, and this is a major problem in Gorenjska. We all know what the problem is, that's what it means when it comes to a connecting road or a highway, to a connection in Shentvid. This is one, of course, even bigger problem is Jeprca-Sentvid Road, which is actually beneficial to the inhabitants of the region. It is said that the inhabitants of the region have been seeing for some time that we are like a blind intestine and that for us there is still an important detour road, this is the detourous Jeprca-Vo water road, and the other is the connecting road Jeprca-Sentvid-Stanežiča, which would not last solve the problem of the siege through Medvode. The fact is that the problem from Škofja Loka to Ljubljana is screaming into the sky, because it takes an hour and a half for 20 kilometers at the tip. These are, I could say, major problems for Gorenjska and for the bishop region, for this northwestern part of Slovenia, rather than some fear that the quota for building motorways in Gorenjska is too small. The fact is that these solutions are also mentioned in this programme, based on the study. A study of the transport links of this wider area of North-West Ljubljana somewhere shows the need to regulate these busy roads and to expand existing roads. In this area, it is said, by the construction of the connecting road Jeprca-Stanežiča. The main objective of the connecting road is to ensure an appropriate link between Jeprca and transport through Medvode. The justification is also given in the Strategy for Spatial Development of the Republic of Slovenia. In this programme, however, I see somewhere that the funds provided for the location plan needed for this troublesome Jeprca-Powda road are also in view of the location plan for the construction of the six-pass line, that is to say for the construction of the tunnel under the Sishenski hill, with connection from Celovska requiring a special study of this tunnel due to this connection, and not least the location plan for the Jeprca-Stanežiče road. Of course, we want these procedures to be accelerated, that is one thing, and we certainly hope that these things will be realized as they have been committed somewhere in the 2005 motorway construction programme itself, which is why, as I said at the outset, I also support this programme. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mr. Mark Pavlich has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u56	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Hello, Minister Mag. Christmas and Mr Zimsk, President of the administration of Dars, of course, also the colleagues and colleagues, as many of them remain here between us. Since everyone gets to know each other on the roads, I'll put my own pot on. On 15 February, I asked the government and the minister a question in writing, asking, among other things, what is the current planning document and when will the government accept it, when will it submit it to the National Assembly, because, of course, this document is crucial for the realisation or continuation of many projects, in this particular case, I was talking about the difficult state of the highways. And I am glad that the government responded quickly, in ten days, as it were, to this initiative, hidden in the question, and finally adopted this plan on 24 February. Today, in the National Assembly, we are adopting an annual construction plan for this year, weighing as much as 124 billion tolars, of which just to build highways are expected to be less than 90 billion tolars. Thank you. Black Realisation is not 100% compared to the resolution, but 95%. Probably all positions as the opposition agree that the construction of the Slovenian highway network must continue at such a pace or even faster than the resolution mentioned many times, since modern road roads are a driving force for the development and progress of the society as a whole. The example of Denmark and its economic expansion after the construction of its motorway network despite the enormous financial costs that it has invested in the development of its transport infrastructure does not need to be highlighted because it is sufficiently enlightened for all. I wonder whether, despite our country's huge financial contributions to the construction of Slovenian highways, we get what we expect from the investor who manages this money - this is top quality. And why do I ask myself that? A week ago, news appeared in one of the Slovenian officers that not two years ago there were larger cracks on the asphalt road and possession and damage to the highway signs themselves. The statement of responsible people who led the construction of the highway was that such injuries were expected, but they were not given, as was said in the news - I quote: "... the embankments of the highway were delayed because the investor was in a hurry to turn the road into traffic." One would expect that the highway, according to its design and quality of construction, is still different from the so-called "normal roads", which are falling apart in front of us every day, especially after the end of a slightly sharper winter than it was this year. However, the news that such injuries occurred on a not - two - year - old highway section does not leave me indifferent. And I can't help but wonder what roads we're building. Despite the fact that traffic in Pomura has increased dramatically over the past year and a half, we can even talk about a traffic disaster, as we all know, especially freight traffic, but at this construction section still does not exceed 10,000 vehicles per day, and it will only be when it exceeds 25 or even 30,000 vehicles per day. I also wonder why the builders were not allowed to create such conditions that, against the quote, the embankments would be laid down and that the road would not be put on the market if there were no conditions for it. As the former Minister of Transport, of course, I know very well who is directing and directing such a policy on Dars, but I did not expect the technical profession to know or not to stop employers and some sort of expert computer of the ideal opening deadlines. Let us now put aside the complications and costs that will arise from the recovery, and for the costs I already know in advance what will be the response of the ministers, of course, we will correct them as part of the faults in the guarantee and should be covered by the contractor. But as former President Darsa, of course, is at least indirectly responsible for the case, I ask him: What will he do to prevent similar things from happening? Has he already called anyone to the defense in connection with this case? How will damage be done if it is even possible to repair it in a quality manner? There are even more such cases, for example, in sections from Ljubljana to Dolenjska and Styria and also in road sections, which are younger, for example, than three years. The second question that I am interested in, and which is so much more pressing because I am not interested in being an MP or former minister, but also as a host, is what happens to the construction of a fast road between Kopro and Isolo or what happens to the highway, the fast road between Kopro and Draganjo. In view of the traffic chaos that is already taking place, which I think will be the first time that I have estimated will be the peak between the May Day holidays. Instead of speeding up preparations for the construction of a fast road, with the aim of starting to build this needy section of the coastal road this year, as envisaged by this programme, some individuals at the Ministry of Environment and Space and also at the Ministry of Transport are now looking for different possibilities for a regulation on the location plan adopted last fall, due to such or other causes that are obviously known to them, to destroy the speeds also due to private interests, and should start again with the planning of the new route, this time stole away by their metro and scissors. I wonder how many tourist seasons Koper will drown in transit traffic blocked between Slavčko and Šmarja, which is mainly heading towards Croatia. As you know, last February's resolution, last year's additional programme also included the planned section of the fast road past Kopra towards Šmar and further towards the border crossing of Dragoj and the planning of the highway from Postojna to Ilirska Bistrica. And it is only the two projects that are about a half-second decade away that will solve the chaotic transport situation in Cyprus, which we have been monitoring for several years, and, as it is said, will for the first time really explode during this year's May Day holidays, as the main traffic wave will now take place right after the newly built highway on Slavček. Let me conclude that, of course, this is also one of the cases of unconscious or inappropriate planning. According to my assessment, this road from Kopra to Dragonje is vital, this is a transit road that will help those tourists who do not come to Slovenia and Slovenia use only for the use of transport infrastructure, to roll away as soon as possible, to move forward, of course, to Croatia and to other countries. The second fast road, which runs between Kopro and Isola and later from Izola to Lucija, is intended to power Slovenian places with those tourists who want to stay here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u57	Thank you, colleague Pavlich. I'd like to take the floor with my colleague, Joseph Fick. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, President Darsa, colleagues and colleagues! I'm going to talk about the road, too, which concerns me, which is what you've all been doing, or at least a large majority. Although we have one part of the highway in Pomura, which has already been spoken about, the speaker also said that the traffic load is very low. Of course, because it is essentially the suburbs of Murska Sobota and in a very short part the vehicles can avoid Murski Sobota and three other places in Pomurje. So it doesn't make sense that whoever's going out of Murska Sobota would use this highway against Styria, because he's got a lot to avoid. In particular, it is used by transit trucks and those who perform technical checks at a nearby institution to burn their cars a little bit to achieve those tests at the inspection. Let me go back a little bit. In 1993 a transport agreement was ratified in the National Assembly, which also provided for so-called European corridors. At that time, it was written that the foot of the west — the east — was a priority in relation to the north - south leg. All of this was then incorporated into national programmes. The first such was adopted in 1996, which determined that the construction of Maribor - Hungarian border would be the beginning of construction in 1996 and the completion of construction in 1999. Even before the deadline, the national programme experienced a rebalancing which foreseen the completion of the construction in 2004. Last year, last February, you adopted a resolution on the national programme for the construction of motorways, which envisaged the construction, completion of construction in 2013. If I read this resolution and other national programmes, it was all set out as a goal, one of the important objectives of building a highway, ensuring uniform regional development, or, as my colleague said earlier, national economic needs dictate that motorways be built. But of course they didn't build on national programmes, there were many reasons why they didn't follow them. If I mention one who stabbed me in the eye, it says, "because of the great employment and different quality of designers and other manufacturers of professional bases and location plans and the different skills of project managers." So if the recruitment of a design institution affects the development of my region, then I am disappointed at all those responsible for the implementation of the national programmes adopted in the national assembly. I do not know how we appreciate the national interests recorded in the national programmes. For this year's plan, however, I am pleased to note that it is departing from the national programme. In fact, the completion of the construction in 2008 is foreseen for our Maribor-Hungarian border. I believe it's based on real bases. And if we look at a concrete plan, it only predicts 10%, or roughly speaking, of this year's funds linked to this section. But if this is the beginning and next year will follow, I expect that 2008 will indeed be completed. But I'm happy to find out that this leg is supposed to be called, and in my nicknames, I say, "the poor version of the highway." By the way, this section won't have a seat belt. And that doesn't bother me so much, this section is going to have a 25-centimeter drive belt and a speeding belt. Although 25 centimeters may mean much or little, when drivers are on this highway, I assume that the limit will be the maximum speed limit to 130, as is the case, on normal highways, there is a much greater possibility of traffic accidents. However, if the result is that the driving belt is limited by 25 centimeters, the speed is reduced, but I am even more disappointed that it even happened. I'm concerned that this rationalization was created right on the Pomurski section of the highway. I am also concerned that it was based on studies, professional studies, with which some of them used to wave here in the hall, but for these professional studies I have reason to suspect that they are not real. If they say in terms of the number of traffic, that there is a daily burden of 11,000 vehicles from Radenci to Beltinci, and 5,000 from Beltinci, there is no major breakout in Beltinci, it is a breakaway in one village. So, 6,000 vehicles can't be lost in one of those one of you, which means that this study was either not designed in a way that is credible, or someone actually took some data about the density of traffic. Of course, the study was made in 2002, during which time Europe happened and concrete information to tell you how the number of trucks at the international border crossing in the Long Village has increased. These trucks are transitive and they're going over Slovenia. As of April, it was a month, for monthly data I say, 29 thousand 356, and as of May, 51 thousand 873, it is about 20,000 per month, now this number is moving around 70 thousand. This is a growth that is more than 100% relative to the previous year. These studies predict annual growth of 2 to 3% of traffic density. Of course, it is the whole traffic, freight is only one part of this traffic, but we probably all agree that freight traffic is the most burdensome and is the biggest driver of traffic. If I tell you about the traffic accidents that have taken place on these sections. This is the whole section where the average of accidents prior to entry into Europe was about 150 after entering the European Community 180. This is all the data that says this rationalisation is pointless. Also, the fact that all bridge objects are built in full width, the theoretical rationalization of one metre would mean 4%, of course, in the fact that all other objects, purchases and bridge objects are built in full width, this rationalization in terms of narrowing lanes, would hopefully be below 2%. These, despite my great satisfaction, will come to realize this section of the highway, a little concern. I expect the section of the motorway to be built within the expected time frame to meet the same conditions for the Pomura people in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u59	Thank you, Comrade Ficko. My word is Dr. Paul Gantar. He's not in the hall. I invite Mr. Miran Jerič to the floor. He's not in the hall. A colleague, Geza Juban, is also on the list of applicants. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u60	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The order is such that the Prekmurians will thoroughly process our foot of the highway. During this time of discussion on a document which is very important to me for some of us, but from the debate it is a topic which is interesting for all Members and, of course, for all inhabitants, so that they do not get the wrong idea. Some of us know the history of the creation of the document of the national programme, which is the basis for this year's plan, and we have experience that at the beginning of the creation of this document, as we have agreed, almost nothing was true, that then something became real and that, despite everything, I see this document ahead of us and which is the basis for it that, despite everything that has happened in recent years, something that is very true. I would not agree in any way that what was planned for the next eight years, that this government will now build within three years, but that it is possible, given the situation in Slovenia, to speed up certain sections slightly, so that we will have a highway connection. The roadway connection is something else for my understandings, such as the complete construction of the highway at any section. A road link can solve the problems of the inhabitants and the economy of a given area, and another is the complete construction of the highway system, which is, of course, a somewhat more difficult project. In fact, we are today considering a document that was produced in the former government, which this except for rare documents somehow summarized and we got it on a table from a team that hasn't changed much. This is probably also the reason why we are considering the document in the way we are dealing with it and that, after my personal assessment, it might not be necessary to discuss much if we Members did not have some of their distinctly local interests. We will obviously confirm the document with a large majority, but in one year we will meet again when we consider a similar document, and then we will see what was true and what was not true in this document. Individual legs, which have often been exposed, which is also our premurk, require in the next three years the seriousness of the work in this section, in particular the very serious involvement of the finance ministry or the state treasury. This will all depend on it, because at this point the placement of the Maribor-Hungarian motorway into space as well as the different consents that are needed, so far as this time is really important to ensure the means and seriousness of the promises made by both governments, that this section is built at the pace of getting a highway connection in 2008. This means that the bridge over Drava and Holes over Malečnik will probably not be built, which is then the other part of the story when we talk about the whole highway or just the highway connection. This first phase will be very important to us because it will solve everything we are talking about. That is why I will support this document today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u61	Thank you. My word, Mag. Boruta Saivica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Of course, greetings to our guests who listen to this debate and will try to bring these things into life. Of course, greetings to colleagues and colleagues as well! I will, of course, support the proposal for an annual development and renewal plan for 2005 because it seems to be continuing some good practice over the years. It is an extensive and demanding professional work, which is constantly and repeatedly on the verge of a political coup. I hope that in this area too, there will be no so-called electoral cycle, as is usually the case in local environments, where we build roads and cut strips in the month before the elections, and then two years after that until the next election, we pay debts. Also, the government debate, which envisions a reduction in this budget for, I think, 6 billion, is not the most written on my skin. However, it is important to be aware that these are our real financial opportunities, and I accept this with understanding. I will not limit myself to Gorenjska, because we are not least representatives and electors of all the people of Slovenia, although we have quite a few problems in this area in Gorenjska. From this place I would particularly welcome the understanding of all those citizens and citizens, especially Gorenjk and Gorenjci, who understandably accompany waiting in the columns at Sub-Tabor and problems, for example, at the crossing in Podvin, and we accept all this with some understanding, with some tolerance. We just can't do everything at once. As far as I have flown and know this program, I think it is also roughly evenly distributed across Slovenia, and I consider this to be good and positive. And I am also pleased that representatives of the ministry, government and Darsa understand for the solution of small problems, such as those at the crossing in Podvin, which can, from the global point of view of Slovenia, have small, round, insignificant, but for those citizens and our citizens, who are there before the red light, jump out of the car to press the light on the traffic light and then back into the car, but that is a serious, important and life problem. Therefore, I would also like to say that it is commendable that they are also dealing with such minor matters. However, I would like to draw attention to another aspect, which, of course, is not a criticism, but rather an initiative and a desire for reflection. This is, however, an environmental or environmental aspect. The roads, of course, are one of the major polluters and burdeners of our environment. The highway in this area on the one hand brings progress and positive developments, as we drive faster on highways and, if we drive as normal, we also consume less petrol, if we use less gasoline, the exhaust and the environmental burden is lower. But I haven't heard anything about it today, but what about the roads and the Kyoto Agreement? There are a lot of so-called greenhouse gases that pollute our environment. If we are reducing these greenhouse gases in Slovenia quite successfully in the industry, I hope not only because many companies are failing and closing doors but because we are adapting quickly and modernly to modern environmental standards and standards. I would like to point out that if we want to take a step forward in this area, then we must also build rail transport with motorways and turn some of the heavy transit into railways, then, of course, there will be less unwanted emissions that we do not want and, finally, they will seriously pollute the environment and also affect health. Besides, I would also point out that it doesn't matter where we build highways. It's a highway, that's clear to all of us, we need to build away from the settlements. And I would also say that they should be built away from the agricultural surfaces. There are certain areas in the world where they found that there is too much lead and cadium in the milk of cows grazing near roads or consuming feed near highways. Such a matter may go up to 300, 400 meters [300,400 m] from some literature. This is said, given that Slovenia is the third forest country in Europe, Sweden and Finland, I think that, of course, when we think about it, we avoid agricultural areas and because it is possible, we exploit parts of forests that are less valuable. But it's not about some highway that cuts off a beautiful forest complex. Finally, I want to close this environmental issue. I am also against toll stations, of course, but I will not put in the first place, as I have heard several times in this assembly today, money and only toll, but I would say that braking and extraction bring additional pollution, so I will gladly support the toll system, where this electronicly recorded and coded system will not stop there, we will not be slowing down the speed, but we will get an account for this done way at the end of the month or whenever this time period will already be. One more time, it's not about the money. Clean air and health are good things that cannot be bought for big money as well. This is also what we think about in the strategy of building motorways. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u63	Thank you, Comrade Saiovic, for an interesting presentation. I would like to take the floor with my colleague Milan Petk. [[He's not in the hall.]] We're moving on to the applicants. Dr. Mitja Slavinec has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary, everyone else is present! As many of my speakers have, of course, turned to the local problem of the Mooring Highways, and I will therefore start a little wider myself, and in the end I will also clearly touch on the area that I know most. Personally, I'm sure it's the most important criterion of efficiency. Given that we do not have much resources or that resources are limited, I think it is so important that, within these limited possibilities, we approach motorways with such priority and with the dynamics that will give us as many miles as possible with these resources as possible, and the widest possible circle of people. That's why I put the construction of those highway sections that connect the thefts that make sense to start and end. This means that they are connected to existing roads. From this point of view, if I now specify myself on the pomurski autocrat, I am certainly giving priority to the section between Lenart and Lendava, because in this way we connect a very large part of the population, unload the long section of the road, and most importantly, with a large number of vehicles. After the current dynamics, the highway leg would have ended up in the middle of nowhere for some time without connecting to existing roads. From this point of view, the benefits are also significantly greater, since the cost of building this part of the leg, which is three to four times longer, is comparable to the cost of building the bridge and the tunnel through Malečnik. For this reason, I propose that you re-examine the dynamics and priorities and take into account this benefit argument and that we get as many kilometres as possible for the money given. In support of this, we can certainly also stress the continuing expanding traffic on this leg. According to the latest data, the monthly number of trucks was over 70,000. This number increases by two to three thousand a month, and it's not to say that before 100,000 trucks per month would stop. As a result, in the last year, four times the number of fatalities occurred and truck drivers were mostly involved, more than years earlier. Finally, of course, it is also a very important economic aspect. This is partly true of the toll system, which has already been said about today. It is certainly reasonable to consider whether the intermediate frequency change period is, of course, a shorter forecast time for the current ABC card system, which is also indicated when users buy the card, so this transition from a different frequency in the meantime until they adopt a European standard, whether it is reasonable or financially justified and, of course, by introducing vignettes would not be through positive discrimination, we must be aware that even the outermost places are economically less successful, so whether they would not try to ensure, in this way at least during this transitional period, a simpler and, as I said earlier, in terms of positive discrimination, an economically fairer way of the system and thus ensure a more coherent regional development. Question of a highway or road reserved for traffic in motor vehicles, or not least a poor highway. Here at least we are specifically interested in what will be the regime on this road, including the specific question of how much speed will be allowed on this part of the road. Of course, we rightly expect this to be presented once and for all. Finally, maybe just a hint. This programme lists the surrender of most departments at the end of 2008. Unfortunately, for most of the end of 2008, it is very close in 2009, so I propose that we set ourselves as a target in 2008, which, of course, could mean the middle or the beginning of 2008. I am arguing this much more with everything that has been said so far, perhaps part of these roads alone and connecting, as has already been said, and in particular in terms of ensuring greater economic competitiveness and greater road safety for these people. As it is said, all these items, and especially the use of motorways themselves in prioritizing, I want them to apply in the area of the whole of Slovenia in building all the motorways we have planned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u65	Thank you. My word is Davorin Terchón. He's not in the hall. Next on the list is colleague Miro Petek. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u66	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. For my part, I envy my fellow Members who can discuss here today the proposal for an annual road renewal plan for this year and, of course, each mentions its place and its own roads. Of course we all benefit from highways, but some more, others much less. For Korosce, this distance to the first highway is measured in an hour or more and the spatial distance is measured in 80 kilometers. We are unfortunately closer to the first highway in neighbouring Austria, about 20 kilometers, than to the road leading us to the capital. We also fill this budget for the construction and reconstruction of motorways, which we are also talking about today, with all the Korosci that we are cut off from decent transport links. I personally have nothing to add to this plan, and of course I support it, which has been forwarded to Parliament by the Ministry of Transport. Although I miss a map in these documents, it would make it easier to imagine where some restoration or route would take place. The priority of the Slovenian highway programme is based on the fifth and tenth transport and transport corridor, covering links from Kopra to Šentilj on one and from Karavank to Obrežje on the other. Unfortunately, this direction pushed everything else into oblivion, such as the section of Holmec-Arja Road, which became part of the highway programme only last year at the initiative of the party SDS. In previous national programmes in 1995 and 1998, this part of Slovenia has been completely silenced and ignored, which today also recognises the Ministry of Transport and also only sees this as a major mistake. Today, Koroška is one of the busiest regions in the country. According to Minister Bozič, we can expect Korošci to plant his first shovel around 2010 and complete this road connection by 2014. If they hold the yearbooks, I will personally be very happy; otherwise, we are quite patient and would wait another year. The Koros and the other four regions, which would gain this link through Celje to the Croatian border, still referred to this as the third development axis, which my colleagues spoke of before me. People are aware that this road brings development to this region, that opening this region to the world brings a new economic impetus, greater mobility of the population, more open space, an opportunity to accelerate the development of tourism. It is therefore good to look into the future when discussing the annual development plan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u67	Thank you, colleague Friday. I would like to take the floor with you, Mr. Willy Trophynik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u68	Thank you so much for saying that. Greetings to all present! I do not want to repeat some of the findings that we are relatively late to accept, as usual, the annual programme, that by nature this document belongs to the development agenda and similar matters. It was true that there were years when we only adopted such documents in July. I want to limit myself to one programme point, to the so-called Podravski leg from Hajdine to Ormož. In order to make it easier to understand, I would like to point out that the idea of this direction dates back to 1992 and that in the basic national programme for the construction of Slovenian motorways this direction was the only highway, fast road or road reserved for road transport. The document, which defines the scope of the works on this leg in 2005, on page 8 of the material we received, speaks of the Hajdin-Ptuj section. I must draw attention to the inconsistencies of this formulation or to the inconsistencies of this programme. In doing so, I must say immediately at the outset that it is not my intention or purpose to discuss in any way to prevent the start of the early realization of this project, but I do not think that this document should be written in such a way or that it is inadmissible. At the time of the creation of the idea or even the national programme, it was convenient to talk about the Hajdin-Ormož route and the first section of Hajdin-Ptuj. However, because of incompetence or perhaps also because they did not know or were not responsible to place this subsection of Hajdin - Ptuj in space, there has been a situation that now instead is a completely different section, which has no connection either with Ptuj or with Hajdina, and could be named section Drazenci - Videm near Ptuj, as is evident from the basic spatial act that defines this road or the binding road of the city of Ptuj on the "fast road", under the nickname Hajdin - Ormož and through it on the Slovenian road network. The program that talks about the subsection, once again, Hajdina - Ptuj, should be noted to all those who do not really know that it is one inconsistencies. It's about two miles of different roads. About 700 meters of fast road from Drazenec to Vidmu and the difference of connecting road with the bridge of Ptuj, which ends on the existing M3 highway in the city itself. That's not necessary. I don't know what led the authors to hide two different roads under one section. The fact is that the city of Ptuj needs urgent arrangements for both local transport and transit. However, I fear that a mistake can occur from ten years ago when it was tried in a similar way to solve the problem of transit traffic and local traffic in the town of Ptuj by undercarriage, and the result is that, despite the warning at that time that today all of us who travel from that end or through Ptuj, we also know half an hour or more to stand in a stopper in the city of Ptuj because someone once tried to solve what is not possible, with one stroke: local and transit traffic. I therefore point out that the programme is inconsistent for this year, bringing together two different roads, two different rankings. That's the biggest problem. The connecting road is theoretically the most thoroughfare and transit road has some other status. It's a road status reserved for car traffic. And another document needs to be pointed out, or fact. Last year's resolution on the national programme provided that the site plans would be adopted or prepared in June, both in this section and in the next section, from Vidma v Markovac. Now we can find out from the material on page 2 that the location plan on the relation of Videm pri Ptuj-Marcovci still does not exist. Of course, at first glance, someone would say: What difference does it make for one year? But it is a deep substantive problem. In the meantime, Natura 2000 was adopted and the facts or restrictions of Natura 2000 are directly contrary to the placement of this section in the space. It can happen that there is a negative consensus in the process of making or adopting a site plan, which means crossing the section Videm - Markovci, which does not have a practical alternative direction, and then becomes a problem both the first section from Drazenci to Vidma and the connecting road with the bridge of the city of Ptuj on this route. Therefore, for the reasons I have said and the great dangers that follow for the implementation of the entire project, its implementation has been envisaged years ago, I am warning and asking or asking the proposers to reconsider the problems that may be hidden in one way or another and to appropriately name these sections. Of course, I cannot prepare an appropriate amendment on my own, because I can divide the 2.3km without having access to the data section of the fast road from Drazenec to Vidma to Ptuj and then the difference in the form of the connecting road of Ptuj with the bridge is, of course, a technical problem for which the relevant data should be available. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u69	Thank you, Comrade Trophynik. Your warnings are in place. Thank you. I'd like to speak with my colleague Kangler, if you please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u70	Thank you for your word. I too, if I want to come from Maribor to Ormož, it is very important if I go to the right side of the Drava River to come across the city of Ptuj. The city of Ptuj also needs its attention and, like those who want to come from Ljubljana to Mursko Sobota or Lendava via Maribor, it will be a good time to take a bad road and if we want to lead the highway program to Lendava or Murska Sobota, we will have to go through Maribor, so I understand some of the aspirations of individual Members and it is right to talk about this too. I myself would like to talk about some things in the national programme and my personal view of the annual development and plan and the renewal of motorways for 2005. We heard a lot of debaters here today in the National Assembly. Some were those who claimed never to have lobbyed or had any political influence for their sections. I'm sure there's not one of them in this national council. On the contrary. Some have made sure that they did not need to lobby for individual sections in order to make a substantial and substantive change in the national highway construction programme, which means that the axis has moved slightly from the previous programme. We also talked a lot about tolls. Roads, collecting tolls with vignettes or anything else can present a major problem. The existing toll collection system and the ABC system are good for some things, but also bad for some. Personally, I am asked the question of where and in what way and who brings Darsa to the state treasury and cash register through tolls on individual relationships. Those who drive from Šentilj to Ljubljana, you can count how many times your car stops at a toll station. Or how many times do you stop on the toll? And I could count it, and I don't want to think about it because I think it's reckless. Perhaps for some, I am just thinking, but those who are here today arguing with me with neighbouring benches, but also occasionally get into such difficulties that even in a institution that a voice rises above them and that they do not lead the right policy, even though they have been in power for quite some time now, they have been able to directly influence and also, after all the information that we have in any way. And today, once again, I say, to say that no one in this national assembly or in any way has adjusted has tried to influence the construction of such or other road programs, it seems to me to speak recklessly in this place. However, if I look at the annual development plan itself, I can argue that it is finally appropriate for the development of motorway programmes to be extended from the centre, from Ljubljana to both the east and the west, both north and south. It is true, however, that mainly the northeast part of Slovenia has been neglected for a good time. Whatever you want to hear the truth, it's the truth. Five or six years ago, the highway section to Maribor on the Ptujska road ended. Today, this highway section is in exactly the same condition as it is coming to the Ptujska road. And I must certainly also draw the attention of the representatives of Dars and the distinguished minister to one segment, given that some had previously waved with documents and resolutions on the counting of traffic. We are neglecting an important segment and important information that the Balkan war is behind us, that the borders in the Balkans have opened up and that the transfer will come again for some of the people in the west on temporary work, on larger holidays, summers, transfer through Šentilj, through Maribor, through Gruškovje to Serbia, against Bulgaria and then into Turkey. These data are known and even through the number of traffic you can find that this traffic has increased significantly from 1991 to today. And if someone takes a trip from Maribor on Friday to the congregation of Miklavž, which is 6 kilometers away from Maribor, or to the congregation of Starž three or four hours, this is not normal for normal breakaways. And as soon as this part is needed, however we look at Ptuj and also against Ormož and against Vidmu, this segment and this data will also take into account and also adapt the transfer and transport policy to the current situation. Even then, dear colleagues, when we say we have derogations from the national programme. Nobody has foreseen this segment, nor has it taken into account that peace in the Balkans will be released, that transfers will be freed, that problems in this part and we must be aware that the international border crossing that was Šentilj has been in the previous system or before the self-conservation war far away from the largest international border crossing point. The door to Europe was called. Anyone who wants to personally make sure that he takes a vacation or free time and tries to get to Ptuj within 4 hours on Friday. Probably sooner comes any major city in the west than crossing the Republic of Slovenia from Šentilj to the Croatian border, which is approximately 60 to 80 km, depending on which crossing you cross. That there are a few branches that will also be built against Prekmurje and Prekmurje itself, I think it's wise and prudent. As a country, we, too, have an obligation to the neighbouring Republic of Hungary. It is personally known to me that in 1998 or 1999, an agreement was signed between the Prime Minister of Slovenia and Hungary on the construction of or against the highway section and, accordingly, in my personal opinion, this annual plan for the development and renewal of the motorway follows these needs. I will personally support the proposal of the mother labourer to agree on such a plan and development of motorways for 2005 at this point today.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u71	Thank you, colleague Kangler. My colleague, Marijan Pojbič, has been reported.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u72	Honourable President, Honourable Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The proposal for an annual development and renewal plan for the 2005 motorway is acceptable and I support it, but I would point out in particular the aspect of the construction of motorways concerning local communities, for which construction is very important in terms of their further development. In this regard, I would stress two main aspects, namely the speed of the construction of motorways and, in particular, their accompanying buildings and roads, and, on the other hand, the toll which, by incorrect collection, may have the opposite effect that the local communities would have wanted. Toll collection is a problem all the time, so from the point of view of financing the construction of motorways is not sufficient for construction itself and thus the issue of their efficiency arises. On the other hand, in local communities there are obstacles and great opposition from the population, here I am thinking mainly of the section of Šentilj-Peznica, which means increasing tolls and, on the other hand, there is no real effect. The road system should be designed to normally burden users in remote traffic and stimulate the use of motorways in internal local traffic. Therefore, I believe that the system needs to be thoroughly checked and that, on the basis of the studies obtained, the most appropriate solution should be decided, taking into account the above-mentioned aspect. So far the construction of motorways has taken place under given financial conditions and resources quite solidly, both by quality and by construction speed. However, I believe that some sections of the highway could be better and faster to run. I therefore appeal to the competent services to devote more time and energy to this aspect. In particular, I have in mind sections that are very busy in traffic - these are in Pomour, Vransko-Blagovica, Dolenjska and Posnica-Slivnica. Finally, I will be happy to support the proposal of the 2005 Annual Plan for the Development and Renewal of Motorways, as I personally assess that progress in this area is also an important stimulus and support to the faster economic development of the Republic of Slovenia. I am convinced that everyone sitting in this National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and Dars is aware of the importance of doing everything that is important in all areas which in one way or another affect better conditions and create better conditions for the development of the economy, which means better living conditions for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and greater prosperity, and in particular the basis for reducing the huge differences between statistical regions, where I am thinking mainly of the Styria and Pomur region, which is another important reason to vote in favour of the proposed proposal for an annual plan for the development and restoration of motorways for 2005. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u73	Thank you, Comrade Pojbich. At your word, Comrade Štebet, who is not in the hall. On the basis of the list of applicants, he has the word mag. Milan M. Squeakle. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Ambassadors and Members, Mr. Secretary, gentlemen of the board of directors of Darsa! Allow me today to discuss how the new government of the Republic of Slovenia represents the management of public finances in the case of the 2005 annual development and renewal plan. In doing so, it must be said that the management of public finances is nothing more than how the government, specifically by cutting budgetary spending, represents support for individual priorities. And the motorway programme of the Republic of Slovenia is certainly an important priority. Today we are expected to adopt a document, an annual programme for the development and renewal of motorways for 2005, but only a few weeks after this document was sent to the National Assembly has the government deeply cut into this programme. We estimate that today's debate is in fact unnecessary. Today, a whole bunch of debaters have talked about what should be changed in this programme, but of course this is not possible. Maybe it's not because the government changed this program substantially on April 13th. We view this as a bad act by the government, a bad act because, for the first time, the new government has an inadequate attitude towards the National Assembly - in a few weeks we will probably revisit this annual plan for the development and renewal of motorways for 2005 and discuss how much money from the state budget should be allocated to the construction of motorways. Secondly, this is bad because, with such a relationship, the government is stopping an important development project for the construction of motorways, and this has an important impact - this impact will now be negative - on domestic consumption and economic growth. Probably all of us who drive on Slovenian highways every day agree that we should continue and complete a project that has been well established and to a large extent implemented in the past decade. The former Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the National Assembly of the previous term of office are required by the adoption of legislation [[resolutions, budgets, the law on the implementation of the 2004 and 2005 budget allowing Dars to be indebted, the law amending and supplementing the Dars law and also the law on the provision of dedicated funds for the construction of state roads]] create good, I will not say optimal, but good conditions for carrying out tasks in such a difficult and important area for the development of Slovenia, such as the programme to build and rebuild motorways. We could say that after the castle was built in the clouds in the early 1990s by the design of the first highway program, good, especially good financial conditions were established over the years to complete the construction of the Slovenian motorway cross. However, with the moves made by the government on 13 April, it is acting the other way around. Even though the resolution on the national programme for the construction of motorways in the Republic of Slovenia, adopted last year, published in the Official Journal, presents the exact dynamics of construction and financial investment across sections and in full, the new government has decided differently and has shown itself to be invigorating at the adopted documents, documents adopted during the previous mandate. We may still understand this, given the President's well-known criticisms and the ministers of the new government about what the previous governments have done, but we do not understand that the government has cut the substantive deep into the programme to be adopted today in the middle of the first own budget meeting in the middle of Sunny Primorska on Wednesday 13 April 2005 when it confirmed the global framework of the 2005 budget rebalancing proposal. It has already been said and we will tell the case of this programme that April 13th was an unfortunate day for the Slovenian highway programme. With government conclusions, the government has substantially changed the annual plan for the development and renewal of motorways. This is undoubtedly what the government is talking about in the relevant document, which was published on the Ministry of Finance’s website on 15 April. However, when the government substantially amended the document on 13 April, only a day later, on 14 April 2005, the Minister, Mr Bozič, sent to the National Assembly, interestingly, past the government, the Minister directs to the National Assembly, Mr Francet Tsukjati, President, past the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which is normal or should be a normal procedure, to the State Assembly, to provide new material, so-called editorial corrections to the text. It is, of course, possible to establish that this material was transmitted through the RS government, it was probably not possible to provide it otherwise, because on 13 April the government said that it was necessary to amend the 2005 annual programme for the development and renewal of motorways at 6 billion tolars, and the RS government would not be able to send materials with editorial corrections on 14 April, when the programme had already been reduced, but should accept the new material. That is how we feel today that we actually have a new and very interesting situation. We have two documents that are being considered almost simultaneously in the National Assembly or in the Government. In the latest document adopted on 13 April, published on the website of the Ministry of Finance on Friday, 15 April, it is called the Budget Manual for the preparation of the proposal for a rebalancing, and this budget manual for the preparation of the proposal for a rebalancing begins in the first part with the conclusions of the government. As a first decision, the RS Government set out the nominal expenditure framework for the 2005 budget rebalancing. It set the ceiling for budgetary expenditure as a basis for the preparation of the 2005 budget rebalancing by user groups and took note of the programme of expenditure under the programme structure or, in other words, said that 27,144 million tolars were no longer available among the funding sources of the 2005 motorway programme, but that at least 6 billion less money was available. This is also the subject of the budget manual, which says that the annual programme for the development and renewal of motorways will need to be reduced. At the same time, when we consider and will probably, in view of what has been said by individual representatives, agree on the annual programme, the same government that has already adopted the programme has forwarded it to Parliament for confirmation, doubts itself about the possibility of implementing the programme and predicts a reduction in the resources for the construction and renewal of motorways. Such a move is incomprehensible and is by no means acceptable and speaks of the non-creditability of the government. I will not repeat everything that has been said at the meeting of the Transport Committee on the indices of the implementation of the annual development programme and the renewal of motorways in the light of the resolution, it has been said that this index is supposed to be 95, the data indicate that this index will be 90% or less. But, of course, what is essential is not only what the 2005 programme is going to be a major problem, and this is what Mr Minister would like to say today, is whether it is possible to believe that such an cut, with which the Prime Minister and Minister Bajuk closed the 2005 budget, will happen only this year, whether it is possible to believe that, after not having been otherwise limited to investments, it was possible to close the budget, or whether we will not have similar situations in the coming years, and then, of course, the annual programme will not be 124 billion or something like that, but 110 or less billion. The problem of smaller resources to finance the annual development and renewal plans of motorways can have a significant impact on the entire multi-annual highway construction programme, and we estimate that we will probably still be able to implement the highway programme stronger after 2013. Until then, it will have to wait for a number of priorities and this was certainly not what it wanted when it was elected or when the resolution was adopted last year. We are therefore afraid that the cut that took place this year, which can continue in the coming years, and I want the Minister to speak about it, may cause a halt to the implementation of the highway programme, which will have a number of negative effects, especially now that we are in the European Union and because of the fact that we are within important corridors, there is a large 80% increase in traffic on individual sections. Finally, as an important issue in limiting resources for the annual programme, the question will also be whether all existing investment loans can be implemented and serviced and the financial sustainability of the motorway programme can also be questioned. We would like to receive the answers to these questions from the competent minister. It would also be good to hear the answers from the financial directors, either Darsa or the representatives of the Ministry of Finance, if they are of course interested in this at all. In this way, we will draw up a position on whether this programme is even sustainable for 2005 and whether this is why it is valid to confirm it at all. However, as stated in this National Assembly, there will undoubtedly be a discussion in the coming weeks on the same issue, the question of the extent of the construction of motorways, and I have no doubt that we will not, or will not have, individual Members or Members at that time, have many proposals on how to change the programme yet. The reality adopted at the government's budget meeting on 13 April is that less money will be available to finance the highway programme than it has been in any previous year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u75	Thank you, Comrade Squeakle, for your serious concerns. I'm asking all the participants in the hall to calm down. Last on my list of applicants is my colleague Srečko Hvauc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u76	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Given that we have heard quite a few criticisms here about the fact that this program came into the procedure relatively late or even too late, despite the fact that in Dars or even a new minister comes from Darsa, that there is nothing here that has changed significantly. Why this delay occurred, I would tell my personal opinion that there seems to have been some change, and that change for the better. I found out how this happened in the past. In 1998, the decree on consent to a similar programme was adopted on 25 March. If we look at 2002 it was published in the Official Journal of 23.4.2002, if we look at 1999 it was adopted on 15.4. 1997 it was adopted on 29 July 1997 and was published in the Official Journal on 9 August 2001. I don't think that's what you're saying. I would like to discuss these problems in Prekmurje or this Long Village, which we have heard from my colleague, that the current traffic is about 70,000 trucks a month. That's a big one. A major change occurred when we entered the EU, when traffic practically increased overnight from 25,000 to 50,000 trucks per month and later this traffic increased. This is more than 150% increase, and it is also, in fact, reliablely linked to many of the problems that occur in an area where these trucks are talking and smelling our Slovenia. Here I wonder why we expected this state so unprepared. It was some changes we were expecting and certainly did not do everything to mitigate these consequences. I'm also thinking about transport policy. Such problems are tackled by transport policy. We do not have one transport policy document after all these years. We don't and we don't know how to solve this problem. During the night, of course, it is not possible to build as many miles and miles of highways. We agree with that. But other measures are still possible. One of these is the rerouting of the cargo from the roads to the railways. I also think that we are not building motorways to burden them mainly with heavy traffic and transit traffic. Autoroads should also serve personal traffic, as well as Slovenians and Slovenes. I also do not think that the programme is justified. I see the problem here before that those who have been preparing the resolution have simply not seen or taken account of these changes, and one of them is the one I have already talked about. All things need to be adjusted. It is not a daily policy measure, as has been mentioned, but it is simply a matter of following the changes that are taking place. I am confident that in the next programmes, whatever they may be, there will be some new needs and some new situation that will need to be taken into account. We also listened to the evidence of why we were building last year, for example, a toll station, why we might still be predicting construction this year. Yes, because it is the basis for this in the resolution, which I think we did not accept, but was adopted in another composition. That's why I can't accept such insights. One more thing. Who, in recent years, has run this department, the traffic thinker, or who was the one who led Dars? The excuses in this direction are completely inappropriate. I am sure that we cannot act in such a way as to take the ministry as a "pasaluk" where someone is holding hands with it and there are no rules, no responsibility, in short, no control of it. I think that these things are primarily the responsibility of the government and, of course, the ruling coalition in this national assembly, which we know what it was like. I've said before that it seems very important for us to adopt this programme. We have listened to various claims. One of the Members said that it was a key document for the construction of motorways, while the other said that construction would run anyway, that it was not important that this document should be adopted because we have a temporary financing plan for the construction of these motorways. I personally think we need this document, and that is why, of course, I will support it. Just to touch another local problem, it's a freeway. This is promised and expected for more than 25 years, it is the Slovnica - Gruškovje motorway. We know that traffic data in this section are very problematic, 15, 16 thousand vehicles on average per year, per day. But that's not so problematic. What Kangler also mentioned is, look, it's some tips and last year's record, three days, it's 228 thousand vehicles in three days, that's 76,000 vehicles, so of course they're standing 10 and 15 kilometers and what's been said before, I absolutely agree with that. Sometimes we have heard that we will not build a road for Croatia, it is not a problem that we are building a road for Croatia, the problem is that this traffic takes place in the local Slovenian environment through municipalities, settlements where people live and actually cannot live here anymore. I can say that we have also informed the Ministry of Transport about this problem, but for now there is some understanding of how this will be resolved, and we will probably talk about other plans. Because of this, I myself will personally support this plan, which has also supported this plan of construction and development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u77	Thank you, you. I invite the government representative to answer the questions or dilemmas raised so far. After how much time we have left, we will open a new round of debate and the government will have the opportunity to answer a new round of questions. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u78	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. As part of my answers, I will try to draw up responses across sets, just as the themes have been exposed. First of all, I would respond to the views of Members and Members concerning the comparability of the annual plan as a document of the visa of the national highway construction programme or resolution. I can say that I appreciate that this document, the annual plan, is prepared methodologically substantively, as it has been in previous years, but, of course, in the future, we will also try to make maximum improvements at the initiative of you and also those who then use the document as a basis for their work. It is true that the annual development plan and reconstruction plan is slightly lower than the resolution in the 2005 national programme, and is 4.2% lower than the planned funding. I would say, however, that the reasons for the difference are, in particular, when nanism is just a few of the most crucial reasons, projects and purchases of land and other real estates necessary for construction. It was envisaged for 4 billion tolars less realisations, especially because the sections on the lower arm Pluska-Ponikve-Crasti in 2004 did not have a choice, but only in this year, so it is only now that public procurement procedures are under way to design after the chosen variant. Then, the sections that will be dedicated to transport in 2005 are more planned consumption at all sections in 2005 compared to the cca resolution. 4.7 billion tolars, except at the Trojan section, where a good 500 million tolar is expected to be less than. Since there are more, there is no need to turn over the highway to traffic. Then, in the sections where construction continues, almost 7 billion more planned funding is planned this year due to faster building dynamics in most sections, then in the sections where construction is planned to start this year, 1.6 billion tolls are planned, mainly due to problems with land purchases and long public procurement procedures, but the completion deadlines are not jeopardised. So, even in the final works on the motorways, 17 billion dollars is less than the resolution in the national programme envisaged, because at all sections of this group last year, we were ahead of planned building dynamics. Some sections, such as the Pragersko Oblast, were built even cheaper. Comparisons on the value of the construction of motorways this year in relation to the resolution on the national programme, taking into account these arguments, therefore does not mean a decrease in the dynamics of construction. Perhaps I would also like to make an assessment, which has been announced today, that it is going, too, by one Member, that it is a fairly balanced programme for the construction of motorways this year. But maybe you could put what's not in the plan paper on your legs. If we look at the upper leg, about 17% in the Dars budget, then 27% in Dolenjska, 11.4% in Vipavska Valley and 12.5% in the rest of Primorska, together in Primorske approx. 21 billion. So it's 23.7% visa for the others. Then Styria's highway leg - 20% and then Prekmurje - 11.6% if we add together it's about. 31%. So, as far as I'm concerned, it's a relatively well-distributed asset. The dynamics of construction are also adapted to the strategic objectives of the national highway construction programme. It is a matter of coherence, which is linked to previous activities in the past years and also to planned dynamics in the coming years. So this is a process that, if I may say so, is very consistent with each other, so that we cannot plan such constructions for one year. Perhaps you could comment on the assessment of the tolls that have been made today, I might say, a very exposed topic. So, the study you were talking about, or I'll say, a more economic benefit analysis. [[End warning sign]] The provisional introduction of vinjets for the use of certain roads in the Republic of Slovenia shows that the introduction of vinjets for the future period is not economically justified. This analysis has not yet been examined by the government and the government has not yet identified itself before this document, but I expect it to be in the coming days.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u79	Mr. Secretary, I'm asking you to finish because you've already exceeded your time. At the beginning of your broadcast, I told you that you will still have a chance to speak under this item today. So I'm asking you to finish.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u80	Just for a little while, if I can explain. So it's about spending money this year coming from tolls. Some 30 billion tolls will be raised in the budget. So, Dars is going to pay the concession fee, the forecast revenue is [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u81	Mr. Minister, I warn you again, I will be forced to take your word. I'm sorry, but the rules of procedure are clear enough in this house.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u82	Therefore, toll consumption is defined both in the company’s business plan for motorways and in part in the part which is a concession fee, including in the document of the annual development and reconstruction plan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u83	Thank you. Given that we still have 13 minutes or 14 minutes of time left under this item, I am opening the debate in accordance with Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure. I ask which of the Members wishes to participate in the debate on the basis of Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Anderlich, are you applying for a debate? Let me ask you, anyone else? Comrade Anderlich, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u84	In the context of the debate, a replica is still possible, since the last one reported in the debate was Mr Minister and we still have time, that is to say our parliamentary group, and we can use the time for the replica. And on this basis, then divide the time according to this article.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u85	I'm staying with the explanation I gave earlier. I therefore ask once again who wants to participate in the debate on the basis of Article 71? I've got four applications. Each of the four and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has 2 minutes. We'll start with you, Comrade Kangler.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u86	Thank you for your word. Earlier, I was running out of time to highlight a very important segment at the beginning of the construction of motorways, which we started building in Slovenia. We must be aware that in some areas, especially those rich areas of the Republic of Slovenia, motorways were built. And when highways and state roads were delayed, changes in destination were paid to local communities, so to speak, compensation for those lands. And a number of local communities, through which the highway has gone, have acquired quite a supply of funds. Therefore, I am also surprised today that some Members coming from central Slovenia are surprised by some projects and programmes, but when the construction of motorways through their local community, such as the Domžale municipality, could find that they have received about 800 to billion tolars of compensation or compensation for change of destination, which is a huge financial contribution to the local community. After one segment, when more or less highways were built in central Slovenia and went outside to the Slovenian countryside, to poor municipalities, we witnessed that the law had changed and that the local communities had not been entitled to it. At the same time, a number of tolars have been lost in providing local programs in the area of which the highway goes. Nor should we ignore this segment, nor should we ignore the programming or adoption of further projects and programmes by Dars and the government itself.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u87	Thank you, Comrade Kangler. It's my friend Anderlich's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u88	In the opposition, the Minister must be told that we are obviously reading different documents. And if he says that both the resolution and this programme are harmonised, then I don't know how you explain the point on the 9th page of point A2 - an increase of a billion 700, point 1B2 by 2 billion 380 and so on, compared to 1F1 minus a billion 800 and so on. It's some kind of diversion, without explanation, without justification in this program. Secondly, I specifically asked how you intend to replace it, because these documents show less from day to day how you intend to replace the fallout of 6.4 billion in 2004, the envisaged refund in 2005, from which title, given that this balance-making document is still talking about a further reduction, I think 6 billion. The third thing is, I was asking you about how you're hiring loans this year. The assumption on page 28 of this document is that the National Assembly will only accept a 10 billion-dollar loan guarantee, but the document will already be accepted as an obligation today, I suppose, and most importantly, the road is already on the market and it is only this year that the lease is being made. That's on page 28, the last sentence below.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u89	Thank you, colleague Anderlich. My word, Mag. Squeezing.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u90	Thank you very much. I listened very carefully to the minister, Mr. Christmas. I am sorry that, of course, there are no other government representatives who might be talking about the financial problems of this programme here today. However, I did not get an answer and I would like the Minister to answer two questions. I'll do it again. First question. Will this week, when it has to submit a new finance plan for the Ministry of Transport by Friday, provide a programme that will reduce 6 billion transfers to Dars? That was the decision of the government on 13 April. And a second time. Will the government start preparing the budget for 2006 and 2007 around May 15, 20, whether or not it will be able to choose within the government that the programme or, if you want, the annual programme or the annual volume of investment transfers will be at least 38 billion, as adopted in this programme? Why is that important? Because if you fail to do so, then the financial sustainability of the entire programme will be questioned, there will be a delay in the implementation of the works, which means that there will be a delay in opening sections, a delay in paying tolls and, of course, limiting or reducing the concession fee. The programme is tense and, above all, how will the new government with you at the helm, Mr Transport Minister, be able to speed up, not stop the construction of highways. Depending on this, we will be able to speak somewhere at the end of 2012 the programme is implemented or the programme is not implemented. By asking, Mr Minister, if we can get a concrete answer to these two questions. Yes or no, it's fine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u91	Thank you. Also reported is colleague Robert Hrovat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u92	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. The key document for the development and renewal of motorways is certainly a resolution on the national programme adopted in 2003. This document, which we have before us today, is essentially an operational programme through which the resolution will be implemented. I support the global programme itself, because I am aware that the quality of life in Slovenia is certainly also dependent on the construction of motorways. Several debaters before me have found that we do not have an orderly fair toll system, and most colleagues were at least slightly localised and would also point out the collection of tolls at the planned toll station Krtina on the route Šentjakob - Blagovica. The original sin of setting up this toll station stems from the resolution adopted in 2003. At that time, it was intended to place toll stations on the most frequent sections, thereby providing more money for the further construction of motorways. By the beginning of the construction of the mentioned toll station, a lot of money had been spent during this time. Despite strong opposition from the local community, it shows that the construction of the toll station will still take place. To some extent, I also understand the desire of the Ministry of Transport after completion, as they would have caused themselves considerable economic damage through demolition. It is a shame that the installation of the Kretina toll station in 2003 occurred. Although I do not support the establishment of the said toll station, I would like to exclude it from the programme, as some toll stations have been exempted, even though they were provided for in the resolution on the national programme. I propose to the Ministry of Transport that it approach the electronic toll system as soon as possible, which would significantly deplete the frequency of traffic on local roads. Because the current toll collection system allows exactly this - avoiding [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] toll payments and loading of local roads. [[...]] I think it is time that we finally put in place a fair and unified system in Slovenia that will ensure fair payment of the toll. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u93	Thank you. A representative of the government has also been reported to the floor. At the same time, Minister, may I remind you that your time of reply is limited to two minutes. Please, if you stick to this provision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u94	Thank you so much for saying that. First of all, I would like to answer a question regarding the lending of a loan to the European Investment Bank amounting to a good 10 billion. I must say, in March, the ratification was in the National Assembly. The second question was how we would make up for the 2004 funding gap, the planned cohesion funds to be drawn up in 2005. This section, as envisaged. However, in cases where you were referring to individual chapters, it was actually for, if I may say, typing errors. The question raised is whether this omission mentioned in the documents referred to by you will mean the Ministry of Finance or if this will destroy the programme. No, because we will be able to implement the programme through the credit potential mainly in the direction of more drawing on credit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u95	Thank you. This concludes the debate. The proposal for a decision will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 4th item of the agenda, or at the latest at 18.25 a.m. I'm breaking this agenda. And we're going to move on to 4. Period of the day - this is for the defence of international research into the skills of mathematics and the naturalism of the 2003 Tims, with a proposal for a conclusion. In doing so, I inform Members and Members and all others of the fact that the total time of discussion is set at 3 hours and 55 minutes. The material was presented to the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport by the Ministry of Education and Sport. The Committee has examined and drawn up a proposal for a decision. I ask the representative of the committee, Mr Jožet Tank, to provide an introductory explanation of the material. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u96	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you. I also welcome Mrs Sverc from the Ministry of Education and Sport. At its 2nd regular meeting on 18 February 2005, the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport discussed the International Research on Mathematics and Science of TIMSS 2003, which was transmitted to the Committee by the Ministry of Education and Sport on the basis of an agreement between me as chairman of the Committee and the Ministry of Education and Sport. The results of the international study of trends in mathematics and science knowledge were presented to the Committee by the Minister for Education and Sport, Dr Milan Zver, and representatives of the teaching institute. International research into trends in mathematics and science shows the level and trends of primary school knowledge. Its aim is to enable participating countries to determine, under the same conditions, the level of knowledge of their schoolchildren from the content they have the opportunity to learn in school. At the same time, research is also an indicator of other factors, such as school performance and other factors. TIMSS 2003 is already the third international survey of primary education at the level of 9 and 13-year-old pupils, which was conducted as a joint project by 51 countries and countries members of the International Union to study the impact of IEA education. The tasks of the test of knowledge shall cover the substance covered by the curricula of all participating countries. At the same time and in the same way in the participating countries, they also measure the views of students, teachers and school administrators as well as other factors affecting knowledge acquisition. In international comparisons, they identify favourable and unfavourable factors in their school systems and they improve them. At national level, each country sees developments in education in the country over the years, sees the effects of reforms and systemic changes and explores differences between individual groups of students, as well as differences between individual countries and school systems. To this end, countries can add even smaller national projects to international data collection. Slovenia participated in all three TIMSS studies in 1995, 1999 and 2003 and will also be in the following year 2007. We note that trends in knowledge for 1995, 1999 and 2003 can be identified as older students and for 1995 and 2003 as younger students. Trends have shown that the level of mathematical and natural knowledge has not changed significantly from 1995 to 1999 and 2003 even though this has happened in some countries. As regards Slovenia's participation in the last 2003 survey, where Slovenia's sample in both populations included students of eight years of age and nine years of age in the same proportions as in the entire population of pupils of individual generations. In the population of young pupils, the class of pupils in which at the time of the examination of knowledge is the largest proportion of nine-year-olds, i.e. students in the third grade of eight-year-olds and the fourth nine-year-olds, and in the population of older pupils, the class of pupils in which at the time of the examination of knowledge is the largest proportion of 13-year-olds, i.e. students in the seventh grade of eight-year-olds and the eighth class of nine. According to the TIMSS 2003 survey, the level of knowledge of Slovenian schoolchildren is lagging behind for most developed countries and does not diminish compared to previous research, which means that our students are not making progress as our competitors are. On the other hand, the self-image of Slovenian schoolchildren about their knowledge is extremely good and their joy to learn from research is diminishing. In the debate, members and members of the Committee expressed concern about the low level of knowledge of Slovenian schoolchildren and felt that more attention should be paid in the area of education and education in the future if we are to be a knowledge-based society. They noted with concern the extremely low percentage of Slovenian schoolchildren who reach the limits of the level of mathematical and natural knowledge, since these shares are mainly lower than in other European countries; especially or significantly lower than in some Southeast Asian countries. At the same time, the image of Slovenian children is extremely high. They felt that it was necessary to promote the creativity and logical thinking of children and to raise positive values. The Minister for Education and Sport, Dr Milan Zver, responded to the concerns of the members and members of the Committee that sampling in such research was done correctly, but that the results were not always a real reflection of the quantity and quality of knowledge. He said that the first analysis of the TIMSS 2003 results showed that the quality of the teaching process should be improved in particular. Therefore, a comprehensive analysis of the situation in primary, secondary and higher education will be prepared at the Ministry, including proposals for measures to improve the quality of education. At the same time, he stressed that minor changes are already being prepared in the field of primary school legislation, mainly in the direction of improving the nine-year-old and debirocraticising the primary school system. Following the discussion, the Committee adopted the following conclusions: "1. The Committee on Culture, Education and Sport took note of the international study on trends in the knowledge of mathematics and science, TIMSS 2003, assessing that the results of the international research are alarming and, above all, far from reaching what is expected. The Committee is concerned that the lack of knowledge of Slovenian pupils is large compared to that of most European countries, and much more is behind some Asian countries. The Committee is of the opinion that the results of the international research show a significant backlog towards the fundamental objectives of Slovenian education, which is that we are a knowledge-based society and that this threatens the basis for the effective development of Slovenia. 2. The Committee on Culture, Education and Sport proposes to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia that the International Research on the Trends in the Knowledge of Mathematics and Science of TIMSS 2003 be considered at a meeting of the National Assembly and, pursuant to Rule 237 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, adopt the following decision: The Government of the Republic of Slovenia should report to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on the implementation of primary school legislation in the light of the results of the international study on trends in the knowledge of mathematics and nature of TIMSS 2003. The report is intended to provide a comparative analysis of the Slovenian school system and the social climate with the most internationally successful school systems to identify the causes of permanent backlogs in comparable knowledge and to present measures taken by the government to improve the situation in this area and to help reduce the knowledge deficit. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia should prepare the report with a comparative analysis and proposals for measures within one year." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u97	Thank you, Comrade Tanko. I give the floor to the representative of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to present the opinion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u98	Hello, Mr. President, and your distinguished presence. Before starting with some emphasis, I could only recall the context within which this debate on TIMSS is also taking place. I would only point out that in 1995 we adopted the White Paper, in 1996 school legislation, in 1999 we updated the curricula for both a nine-year-old and an eight-year primary school - I stress, i.e. the simultaneous renewal of curricula - and then in 2000 the introduction of a nine-year-old and in 2003 the introduction of a nine-year primary school. An investment in a nine-year-old, we can say, both teacher's human resources education and the expansion of spatial opportunities for introducing a nine-year-old, the introduction of information in education, could be the kind of support things that supported this reform in education. In this way, compared with other European countries, we can say that the financial contribution for 6.2 gross domestic income is large, so much income and paid to education, for example Norway, which has not proved to be the best in this study. I mean, we invested positively, of course, but always that account at the end, when we ask ourselves about the input and conditions and energy that was invested and was also needed to change the concept in education, it showed the best results in the end. The TIMSS research itself, those who have already been able to look closely at all these results and compare them, can say that it is very complex and offers a large database, so the interpretations that are generalized can be very dangerous and very unilateral. Some things show up on the basis of what we've been able to analyze so far. What has already been highlighted today is, above all, the quality of the knowledge offered by our school. What is most worrying, we could say that the highest levels of knowledge, namely, the highest quality knowledge, the highest quality, which is somehow pursued by the whole of Europe and especially the Asian world - unfortunately our children are at a very low level, especially the younger children, this means the 4th grade, they have reached the highest levels of knowledge with only 2%. The next worrisome thing about knowledge milestones is that almost 16% of children have not achieved even basic knowledge, those basic coordinates, maps that enable them to advance to higher knowledge limits. In this regard, we can ask ourselves the following question. What kind of knowledge do we give? Is this knowledge competitive in the European and global markets? Why are our curriculums in harmony with or inconsistent with other curriculums? Why do children learn less difficult things with us at the beginning of a nine - year - old, or can they also say elementary school and then have to make up for higher and more demanding knowledge in a very short time? So questions are being asked about the alignment of learning plans with other learning plans in Europe. The next emphasis, the attitude of our students to knowledge. To the question of whether I like to learn, there are many children, here we are at the very top, answered that they do not like to learn or that they do not agree that science and mathematics are the area they like to work with and enjoy learning. We need to ask ourselves a question about this. The whole of Europe seeks to promote science and technology and this knowledge somehow, to arouse their interest in these areas, because they offer further development and we are also asked what to do in this area, so that children do not respond negatively to this question. These are questions of methods, methods of teaching, materials, textbooks, so the whole palette of questions opens up why children do not like science and mathematics. We are somewhere else in the first place, or among the first ones, with regard to self - image, positive self - image. Our students have a very positive self - image and value their own knowledge. So, what is my idea of knowledge and reality, where we find ourselves on the knowledge scale - of course, there is a big difference in Slovenia. There will probably need to be a very thorough review of the way in which school evaluation and verification are conducted, which will provide some real feedback to our students, where they are actually in the field of knowledge at all. And if I may say only as to the direction of interpretation. Any such international research has mirrored the school system. This has shown us some positive trends and steps and has also shown some open issues that we need to consider. We've gone into one very comprehensive and complex reconstruction, and it's right that we can also reflect ourselves, that we respect evaluation and say, that's good, that's not good, that's where we're going to continue. But as I have said myself, what is most difficult - if we touch too many general interpretations or excuses, such as, say, in recent times, there has been a circle around that the wrong pattern has been chosen, that the only fault is that our children were younger than some children, and could continue to be the fault of society because it began to talk about children that they were overloaded. These are, of course, very general interpretations and arguments, why we have taken a few steps and why we have not done five of them, such as the other countries. Perhaps there is still a way forward for us to think about what the Ministry of Education is also doing as a task in relation to a research that has not yet shown all the results. Now the TIMSS database for research and supply to other institutes has been prepared to compare and further process these data, then to prepare an international expert consultation, then to review curricula, teaching methods, review also basic teacher education - we ourselves know that the Bologna process is under way and we also call on the faculty of education and philosophy to consider how teachers are prepared - then to prepare a new concept for further teacher education and, of course, to promote knowledge as a value, and as the only reliable guarantor for further success in both personal and professional fields. I want this debate here in Parliament to bring some constructive emphasis that we too will gladly continue to take into account in the Ministry of Education with regard to further work in this area, which I think is a great responsibility both in Parliament and in the Government, in education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u99	Thank you, Dr. Svertz, for your oral presentation. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The first presentation is followed by the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group, Barbara Žgajner Tavš.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u100	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues. This time, the position of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group will begin with an interesting observation by the Minister for Education, Mr Zver, which differs from the position or opinion we have heard in the opening presentation by the Ministry's representative. TIMSS and various research only means that learning plans are equal across Europe and that children learn more or less the same things. According to my assessment, such a position or statement by the Minister responsible for the basic level of education of a company is irresponsible, especially in the fact that the results of the survey mentioned for Slovenian society are all the more than encouraging. International research into trends in mathematics and science has raised a lot of dust among experts. As the working body of the National Assembly has also summarized, the knowledge of mathematics of Slovenian primary schools is not the best, even more worrying. After this analysis, Slovenia is 22nd among the 28th countries, under the international average, if we look at only the lower level or the lower level. The concern is that nine-year-olds in the third grade have slightly better success than their same old peers in the fourth grade of the nine-year-old. Not only do these studies serve to compare children to learn the same things, but there must be a clear signal that knowledge in Slovenia is at a lower level in primary school than in most European countries, and much greater than in Asian countries. The results, in our view, are, in the opinion of the Slovenian National Party, in fact the last alarm, which speaks of a great delay behind the fundamental objectives of our society. This, as we have heard today, is a knowledge-based society. And I have to refer to the planned or proposed changes in primary education. The pure paradox is to follow the objectives of the Lisbon Strategy, the Bologna Declaration on the fact that the Minister is squandering financial resources in the field of education. While it is said victoriously that when external knowledge checks are lifted after the first three years, the state will save so much and so much money. I stress, on the basis of knowledge, and on the understanding that in the past our country has not already invested in knowledge in accordance with the European average. It is interesting that external verification after the first three years means promoting the innovation and functional literacy of the child and, last but not least, lists it in order to externally verify knowledge. Otherwise, informal data, the official response, at least as far as I know, have not yet been received by the ministry in the parliamentary group, show that most students decide to do so and that schools do not have time or space problems by doing so. The assessment of national knowledge testing is, after all, also the first indicator of the actual knowledge of an individual student, important for both the student and the parent, and not least for the entire school apparatus. In addition to the sudden and, in our view, the rapid amendment of primary school legislation, it is a call for students to switch to natural schools after finishing primary school, sand to eyes. On what criteria, I ask, with what strategy? Nevertheless, the surplus of students wishing to enroll in high school is 2% higher this year than last year's surplus. According to the minister, I will quote: "change in the structure of societies or changes in the economy." It is as if the Lisbon Strategy does not talk about increasing financial resources specifically in the field of research and innovation. Another incomprehensible move. The external final examination of knowledge for the Minister is irrelevant, as the achievements of the national examination of knowledge at the end of the third period after the new period are not to be taken into account either in the academic success or in the enrolment of secondary schools. And let me go back now, specifically to the content of today's point. It is an extremely important decision of the home working body, which we have already heard today and which in part says that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia should report to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on the implementation of primary school legislation in the light of the results of the International Research on the Trends in Mathematics and Science of TIMSS 2003. The report should also contain a comparative analysis of the Slovenian school system and the social climate with the most internationally successful school systems to identify the causes of permanent backlogs in comparable knowledge, and should also include measures taken by the government to improve the situation in this area and, of course, help reduce the knowledge deficit." Most importantly: "The Government of the Republic of Slovenia should prepare the report with a comparative analysis and proposals for measures within one year." I hope the Ministry or the Ministry will stick to this. Therefore, the proposed change of the Ministry regarding the lack of respect for the last external examination of knowledge is so much more, at least in my opinion, incomprehensible. The fact is that the tasks for this knowledge verification are prepared by the State Examination Centre and, last but not least, by the Education Institute, according to the current curricula, taking into account the basic standards of knowledge. It is therefore useful to know how the Ministry will carry out these comparative analyses of Slovenian education. According to experts, the research that we are considering today has given a real picture of the knowledge of our primary schools. So it's a decline in knowledge in mathematics. The fact is, the course of action needs to start today and try to correct the mistakes immediately. It is also a matter of concern that the results of the experts were not surprised, since they were supposed to have been alerted to the decline of knowledge seven years ago, and that is to say, before she was nine years old, the former Minister of Education was obviously deaf. It is only in the event that the level of knowledge at the end of compulsory schooling falls that students should correct their mistakes. It would be interesting to hear their opinion and their actions today. The curriculum is too ambitious, it is heard, and we can only wish it would be different in the future. Finally, let me borrow a school expert’s words: To really become a school, first class has to teach students to read, write, and count to 20. This mission is ours, so the Slovenian school has already succeeded, and with some good will it must do so in the future. In the Slovenian National Party, we will, of course, support the decisions of the mother's working body because of all the proposals that have been made.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u101	Thank you, colleague Žgeiner. I invite the representative of the DeSUS Group, colleague Ivan Jelen, to the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u102	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Members and Members of the Ministry of Education! I would like to give a position by the DeSUS Group on the international study of trends in the knowledge of mathematics and science TIMSS 2003. In the DeSUS Group, we will support the conclusions of the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which were adopted in the course of the international study on trends in the knowledge of mathematics and nature of TIMSS 2003. The fundamental objective of Slovenian and also world education is a knowledge-based society. The international criterion is therefore an indicator of a successful and quality national school system. An international survey of trends in mathematics and science knowledge reveals a comparable level of knowledge among primary school students, nine- and thirteen-year-old students from the mathematical and natural content of participating countries, with the success of schools in the achievements of Slovenian pupils in this test is also made public. On the basis of the TIMSS 2003 data, the third survey, Slovenia’s primary school students do not achieve the expected results, even more so, are lagging behind for most European countries. Compared to previous studies 1995, the level of knowledge for some items is either being maintained in 1995 or even reversed. Their self - image of knowledge and learning is largely high, so we have very confident students, which does not confirm the results while the interest in learning is growing. Despite concerns about the results of the international study on Slovenian students and the related low level of knowledge of Slovenian students, we believe in the parliamentary group that it is essential to improve the quality of education, the quality of the learning system, the educational process, promote the creativity and logical thinking of children, help train or raise positive values to life and to learn. I take the results of this international study as useful and useful guidelines, which can help to give professional consideration to improving teaching, both the supply of substances and the acceptance and incorporation of substances into my thinking cycle. Despite the alarming results, we are committed to re-defining curricula that would show greater and better coordination of substances with internationally comparable content. The interpretations and opinions on the survey are different, as are the assumptions, but in the parliamentary group we are confident that both the professional and the competent will agree on a better, longer-term educational process that will reflect on an international scale higher than ever. It is worth stressing, however, that level learning has so far not produced any specific results, as shown by the data from that study. It is important to draw attention to the opinion of the profession, which has pointed out that bad results in addition to all the already known and poor translations of tasks and the fact that they contained mathematical signs which we do not use in our schools, so it would also be worth considering the professional responsibility of the staff who agreed to use tests that did not put our children in an equal position. In the opinion of our parliamentary group, our experts in the TIMSS should not agree that our children were younger and those who sent older children to TIMSS should, as agreed, be punished. The section asked whether in other countries they had translated tasks for children in a way that was as unpleasant as ours. In this respect, it is worth noting that the analysis also shows that eight-year-olds have failed in relation to an eight-year-old, although, as pointed out by the profession, the results obtained cannot be generalized between eight and nine-year-olds. With all the criticism, however, it is worth noting that TIMSS cannot be compared with some kind of graduation or external examination of children's knowledge, but that TIMSS is just a research, not a competition to show where our primary school students' knowledge of mathematics and physics is placed. I would therefore like to point out in the end that there is a need to pay more attention to directing our children's knowledge into appropriate frameworks, but not by being handicapped in the preparation of tasks. The school is not only an artificial institution in which a wide range of knowledge, freedom and responsibility will be established, but it is also a space to enable us to become more effectively involved in the process of globalisation of knowledge. We therefore support the debate that has developed in the TIMSS 2003 outcome, while at the same time noting the need to check on the basis of their results the effectiveness of the organisation of teaching and teaching content. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u103	Thank you for presenting your position. The following is a presentation of the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, colleague Jože Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u104	Thank you very much and very much again. We have before us worrying data from an independent international study on the knowledge of our students in the field of mathematics and science, which has included our children's knowledge quite low on the global and European scale. This is not the first time that our school profession is familiar with these results, since these research and comparisons, called TIMSS, have been taking place for more than a decade. And the results aren't bad for the first time. Similar results and classifications were faced every time we received them. However, in all these years, we have not been able to hold any broader and in-depth discussions, even more. There was no will to familiarize the public, especially the parents, with the results and analyses, and to tell them about the actual state of their children or, say, what they said about didactics or our school system and school as a whole, as well as teachers. We have had poor achievements of our children compared to European and global competition, while at the same time we have deceived the public with the success of our school system, which has drowned in reforms. We hid a lot of things for slogans and high goals and hid behind the excellent results of some individuals. However, we have never been able to achieve the width or population performance. All the discussions revolved around in a narrow closed circle chosen and from the public of hidden professions and in a narrow circle of politics. This time, however, the policy has decided for the first time to deal with and talk about the results of the TIMSS. Thank God. At my initiative, the Committee of the National Council for Culture, Education and Sport, in agreement with the Ministry of Material, decided that this material was also addressed by the National Assembly in plenary session, allowing the general public to become aware of the state and results of education. The decision was adopted by vote. Unfortunately, this means that everyone in this house does not agree that such a crucial area in which we build our future and which we place as our development advantage and opportunity, as our hope, and we are truly expressing an unexpected and reasonable large deficit, we are addressing and presenting to the public. That they do not agree to allow not only a thorough debate, but also a public demand for school authorities to prepare effective measures to help the Slovenian school rise to an appropriate, sufficiently high European and global level. Only by doing so will the day be a basic one, but not a sufficient condition for such a desirable developmental step. Covering up a bad situation does not lead anywhere, as it prevents the activation and motivation of the public, especially parents, as well as professions and policies. Covering up the results and the situation means mostly lying to ourselves, which we have done for too long anyway. It is time to pour ourselves some pure wine, look the truth in the eyes, and not hide this period of our school history, because otherwise the consequences will be even longer and more fatal. The TIMSS results are surprising, even shocking. The reactions of the profession were different, but they were relatively small, even unexpected, few critical ones. There are many more who have dealt with problems or problems by separating, more subjectively, more compassionately, with the expressed desire to relativize the bad achievements of our disciples. There was a talk about bad Slovenian translations of tasks, after the lower ages of students, about early grades and judgements and so on. All of this, in my view, is more about moving the debate away and amortising the realization that something in our education system is not working, but about encouraging a clear and responsible debate on the state and the measures that are needed. So, prepare the conditions for changes to achieve the international status of knowledge of our children, as we draw it not only in reforms, but also in the minds of parents and their children. The report does not indicate that the primary education departments would be different from those in Slovenia in each comparative country, which could affect both representative samples and interpretations of the results. There are also no data in the study on the size of departments, nor on the number of teaching workers per department, nor on any treatment of the inclusion of children with special needs, such as talented or disabled persons, nor on the social attitude towards school and knowledge, on the conditions of education, on the status of teachers and on their role in the public. However, points on the comparability of learning plans are being considered too late in most parts, although this is not supposed to have a greater impact on results. Well, I don't think there's any consequences. With regard to the age of children and the number of years of education, we can make a direct comparison with Russia and find that we have far worse results. It is worrying that we have even significantly lagged behind Russia in a few years, and it is even more difficult to know that we have fallen behind in Latvia, Lithuania, Estonia, Slovakia, Hungary. In short, for a number of countries from the Eastern bloc in some parts, some segments of knowledge also for Moldova. And we can ask ourselves where our ship is going. It would also be interesting to compare the administrative burdens of teachers in different countries, which is only increasing with the introduction of a nine-year-old. And the information that teachers write down is more or less a secret. Instead of investing in teaching, teachers use it for writing and writing. We can be concerned because it is evident that there is a huge difference between the most successful European and Asian countries. The results largely deny the efforts of our educational system, as we have written in all important school acts that knowledge will be our competitive advantage. And one would expect an explanation of the causes of over-response, say by 100 or even more points. And we can ask ourselves whether this is a problem in the genes, or in the educational system, or in the family situation, the dispersion of textbooks, didactics, democratisation and values of society, such as in the authority of teachers, in written and established student rights and so on. With comparatively poor knowledge, we cannot compete effectively either in further stages of education or in later business activities. It is possible to conclude that the liberalisation of life and society has also shifted to education, that transition has evaluated traditional values, that the new school order has evaluated respect for the teacher, and perhaps as a result that excessive rights have been acquired by disciplinaryly problematic children, that we have dispersed textbooks and more. Clearly, our students have significantly greater problems both with knowledge and with understanding, since the highest level of knowledge is markedly limited to students. However, it is also pronounced that the other three levels are lagging behind. Behind the previously named worse translations, there is probably also a poor understanding of tasks, which reinforces the view that the functional illiteracy allowances already provided here are identified and appear even more prominently in older populations, for example in students. And that's also probably due to an incorrect approach from a nail to a college. For example, the highest level of knowledge in Slovenia reaches about 3%, the international average is about 6%, Hungary is 11, Estonia 9, Japan 24, Singapore 44. In short, up to 15 times fewer students reach the highest level of knowledge, such as in one of the Southeast Asian countries. Even in education it is obvious modern, I could also say, a Japanese approach with a lot of posture and smugness. We can see that such are some of the comments that we are already raising and teaching our children the feeling that we are or are the best. However, this study also notes, among other things, that as a result, more successful nations are much more critical of themselves, much more reserved, much more doubting themselves. In short, the students of these countries feel that something is missing. And that means they subconsciously realize that they still have to work. However, our parents feel that they are working too hard or too hard to be exhausted and that they no longer have any reserves. I think that this kind of understanding discourages work and in children makes it feel that everything just doesn't have to get more involved, that someone will do it for them later. We are exaggerating both in compassion and comfort. It is this lack of objectivity in understanding the situation that, in my view, inhibits the development of individuals and generations, which is later shown comparatively in the smaller skills of educated people, in lower productivity and also in a poorer attitude towards work. Even in our mature years, we are quite content and have the feeling of doing enough. The basics for permanent lagging of Slovenian society are already built into the system. I also have strong doubts about the professionalism of the profession, which implements the programmes of renewal and evaluation, which prepares the analyses and proposes changes and measures, as the results are clearly more or less stagnating. Obviously, we don't make changes the right way and we don't make the right moves. In particular, we are concerned in our Group of Members that knowledge is one of the key advantages that Slovenia is betting on, but despite constant and large investments in education - here we are European over-average - we do not achieve satisfactory comparative results with most European countries. And it is obvious that we spend money on less suitable things, perhaps, or even perhaps we invest too much in various institutions, institutes, extra contractual works, and not enough in the direct school process and perhaps even teachers. In short, spending this money is not effective. We do not therefore agree in the parliamentary group that such important things, which we have not managed to settle in a satisfactory manner for a long time, are not debated, especially in such a crucial area as education. We will therefore support the Committee's conclusions, because we want clear answers, we expect a quality, professional and analytical report from the Ministry of Education and Sport, with proposals to take a real step towards a knowledge-based society, i.e. to apply the sounding words and objectives of the previous mandates. Our parliamentary group, as it is said, will support the Committee's conclusions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u105	Thank you for giving me your opinion, Mr. Tanko. I invite the representative of the Liberal Democracy Club Ljub Germić to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u106	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Honourable representative of the Ministry of Education, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! When we discuss the results of the international study on the trends in mathematics and natural science in the field of primary education of TIMSS 2003, we cannot, however, pass the fact that the results of the study are important and relevant, that 51 countries participated, that the results are internationally comparable and that countries with the same knowledge tests are able to determine the level of knowledge of their students from the content they are learning at school in the same conditions. However, when interpreting the results of that international study, we need to draw attention to some important facts. Thus, it should be noted at the outset that the sample for Slovenia covered younger children than in most other countries. In the younger population of nine-year-olds, the first generation of children enrolled in the first class of a nine-year-old school. In the older population, however, eight - year - olds were actually only seven years old and only nine years old. These were students who continued schooling in the seventh grade of a nine - year - old after the fifth grade of an eight - year - old. It is also important to understand in interpreting the results that the results of this study do not show the situation in nine years, since 80% of the children who participated in the study are students of the eight-year primary school. Regarding the results in mathematics, research shows that the results of our children are worse than the desired. They are slightly better in nature, but they are not here enough to be content with them. Although our students have practically achieved better results everywhere than they did in 1995, the fact that others have progressed faster than we have. In doing so, it is necessary to point out in defense of the achievements of our youngest to the lack of alignment of our curriculums in mathematics with the curricula of other countries that participated in the research. Some delays in learning plans for later periods were taken into account by the Commission on Mathematics, but some due to public pressure and part of the profession have not been included in the news. What will be the results when the first generation completes the path from first class to ninth after the new programme, of course, it will not be visible until a few years later. However, it might be worth reconsidering whether certain standards of knowledge would be included in curricula before, that is, when children are ready for them. However, this is a reflection that we believe must be carried out by the profession, not by this assembly. In the Liberal Democracy, we are confident that any change in learning plans will not bring better results if we do not change our relationship to knowledge in Slovenia. As long as we believe that our children are overburdened, that Slovenian school is too demanding, that average inputs can result in excellent achievements, we cannot expect changes for the better. In this regard, it is recalled that more and more important research such as TIMSS, research by the World Health Organization, research by the Institute of Education and foreign research by a group of researchers from the Faculty of Philosophy do not speak for the problems of overload. On the contrary, they speak in favour of the fact that our children learn less than their peers, and that even in school they spend less time than children in most other countries. Therefore, it would be very good to listen to one of the findings of international research that more successful systems with higher expectations are higher requirements, but not with respect to results, but with regard to the knowledge to be acquired in school. At the same time, it is very important that we ensure further investment in education and teacher training and support them in their efforts to be able to demand that it be normal, that they expect them to know a lot, and that these expectations will be fully reflected in society, in which knowledge will be recognised as a value. It should also be very careful to listen to research that very clearly indicates that systems with external knowledge checks are more efficient and more successful. Therefore, external verification of knowledge cannot be abandoned without thorough consideration, especially when external verification of knowledge shows us that we think too well of ourselves, that we believe that we are well-known, external verification or international research shows that this is not the case. Let me conclude with the position of the Group of Members of the Liberal Democracy. In the LDS, we believe that the proposals we have before us are politically exaggerated, proposed without serious knowledge of the problem and premature and will not contribute to raising the quality of the school in Slovenia. Although some initial analyses have been carried out, more comprehensive analyses of the competent authorities and institutions will only be completed in the coming months. Therefore, in the LDS, we believe that it is sufficient at this point to take note of the results of the survey. We also hope that we will not witness volunteerism, in which, on the basis of one study that covered only two segments of learning content, the political body, and the national assembly, that is for sure, would interfere with changes in the school system. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we propose that we all work together for a quality and challenging public school that respects students and students, and this is also demonstrated by offering them the opportunity to gain a high degree of elegance. We expect them to take advantage of this opportunity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u107	Thank you for presenting the position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. I would like to invite Mrs Majdo Potter to present the position of the Social Democrats, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u108	Dear Members and Members! Dear Madam Secretary of State! The Group of Social Democrats, formerly the United List of Social Democrats, has always stressed the need and importance of a serious, professional debate on all issues relating to Slovenian public education. It has also always taken responsibility for political decisions based on the findings and recommendations of the professional public and, therefore, of the competent authorities, as far as it could influence the decisions taken with its political power, which means that it has always been unable to enforce its views. This seems necessary to us once again when we consider the results of the International Research on the Trends in Mathematics and Science TIMSS 2003. It is not possible to overlook the defilement of the agendas of the meetings of the National Assembly, so the inclusion of TIMSS 2003 in the plenary session is seen as filling the apparently very modest agenda of the 5th session. How else can it be understood that the coalition felt that it was necessary to discuss TIMSS before all the analyses and expert comments were carried out on the results of the analyses. Even the Minister of Education and Sport mentioned on the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport that the final analyses of the competent authorities and institutions are not yet known, but that some initial, first stages of data processing are known, and announced that the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for Education is expected to prepare a broader analysis in March and that the Pedagogical Institute is preparing a national report for this autumn. They are also preparing a conference with international participation, according to his director. So we've only been presented with the first results. Only in the national report will they be, according to the words of the Mag. Barbara Japelj examined the impact of all factors, namely schools, teachers and the home environment on children's knowledge, comparisons made with achievements at international level, will specifically examine the use of information technology and computers on knowledge, review the correlation between achievements in TIMSS and assessments and much more that we have not been able to hear on the committee at this time. We should hear if we wish to confirm the credibility of the catastrophic assessment of the situation in Slovenian school, as found in the first decision of the Committee's report, when the basis for the effective development of Slovenia should be compromised. Also the first statements made by the representatives of the ministry in last December - I refer to the Secretary of State's words on December 23rd - were about the cold shower for the re-education of education. She explained what she was up to today. However, this was said at the time about the fact that, I quote, "a large amount of data will require more time for good and professional interpretation of the results". End of story. The announced public debate has not yet begun, and the ministry has already rushed ahead with the first steps without being overly weighed if we come up with changes to the proposed solutions. We therefore stress that we feel that the debate on the results, which we do not claim for ourselves after the first results, leaves us indifferent, urgent and calls upon the professional and competent authorities to take serious thought and to take action. But the whole other question is what we can hope for at this time since the plenary session, when we do not yet have the necessary professional evaluations for a political assessment. We cannot agree with the Minister's finding that Timss's results are for the first time in public. At least for another study, I can say with certainty that it has encountered the necessary attention in public opinion. For the first time, however, the Ministry decided to make the database available to the public because, I quote, "a lot of parents and teachers have expressed this desire, and they also want to participate in data processing themselves. And a lot of good analyses have been made in so-called civil society outside the pure professional public." This is the indication from the magnetogram of the meeting of the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport. We do not know this work in the Socialist Group of Members. We therefore have a legitimate question about whether these analyses will be the basis for a comparative analysis of the social climate discussed in the proposal for a decision. This is all the more important because the debate on the Committee has always been about the overall transmission of results from a small sample of students and students of a nine-year-old to a judgment on the failure of an entire nine-year-old to be taken under the magnifying glass. This, of course, is well covered by opposition from a nine-year-old in general. It is therefore surprising that no school from that part of Slovenia was included in the sample where there was no opposition to the introduction of a nine-year-old. I stress this in particular because the committee has also said that the achievement of the nine-year period is linked to the teacher's satisfaction with school work. While the level of satisfaction of teachers in eight years does not affect achievements. This means that the teacher’s work at school is more successful in sharing knowledge. This strengthens us in the Social Democrats Group in the belief that special attention must be paid to the quality of teaching and in particular to the continuing training of teachers for modern forms and methods of schooling. It is gratifying to note that underage students do not express such high dissatisfaction that I do not say resistance to mathematics, because there is a general phenomenon that joy falls to school. In a nine-year-old, the picture is significantly better than in an eight-year-old, but unfortunately this cannot be claimed for students at a higher level. There is also evidence of an excessive burden on students in a different light, as we are accustomed to it from the constant emphasis that our students are significantly more burdened by school work than elsewhere in Europe. The students themselves gave information on how much they were learning. Interestingly, success depends on the time spent on learning. Thus, more successful students learn more and spend more time on additional activities. The burden is therefore also linked to the more active extra-school activities of children. The time spent on learning varies slightly in some groups of children surveyed. However, we would like to draw attention to another fact. 77% of children covered in the study have a very high opinion on their knowledge of mathematics and science. Unfortunately, the self - image of our students does not reflect comparatively high actual knowledge. I am not saying that the good idea of itself is bad in itself, I am simply saying that it is deceptive and does not reflect the high expectations of our children towards themselves and to their knowledge. Therefore, in the Social Democrats Group, we do not understand those who have decided, in the light of known facts, to propose the abolition of national knowledge tests at the end of the first three years. This is all the more so since the Minister on the Committee stated that external verification is a form of verification and evaluation of the knowledge and quality of the educational system in general. We see national tests as feedback to children, parents, teachers and schools on where children are actually with their knowledge compared to the classroom, compared to each other's classes at school and between schools in Slovenia. Of course, this does not mean that such tests of knowledge would also be useful for international comparisons. Let me get this. The Group of Social Democrats has a lot of concerns in its proposed conclusions, as proposed by the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport, and not least because of the lack of consistency between the first and the second conclusions, not to mention that the report does not reflect the actual debate on the Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u109	Thank you. Following is the position of the New Slovenia Group of Members, colleague Marjetka Uhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u110	Thank you for your word. All present in the National Assembly! We have the results of an international primary school knowledge research called TIMSS 2003. They examined the knowledge of mathematics and science in the third and fourth classes and in the seventh and eighth classes. Students were enrolled in eight-year-olds as nine-year-olds. The results of an international survey on the knowledge of our primary schoolchildren have rightly raised huge amounts of dust in the public. The results are under expectation. In mathematics, higher-class students only ranked 25th in the 50th place, and lower-class students achieved lower-class results. Students are ranked under the international average. A few better results are in science. The knowledge of Slovenian students is on the tail of European countries. From previous years, knowledge is slightly higher than expected. It is even more worrying that nine - year - olds have achieved even worse results, despite a promising nine - year - old. Our students didn't even understand what is required for individual tasks, as if certain content were not in our curriculum. So the alarm's in place. It is surprising, though, that these signals were not detected during the years of the renovation of an eight - year - old and the introduction of a nine - year - old girl or were blind to them. With all the results of knowledge of individual subjects, it is worrying that a very low percentage of pupils have reached the highest level of knowledge, while 15% of children do not gain even the lowest level of knowledge required. How, though, should they acquire an enviable knowledge, but if children resist learning, they do not like to learn, feel overwhelmed, and at the same time have a good sense of self - worth or a better sense of knowledge than they have actually shown. In all of this, it is also mentioned that teachers are satisfied with knowledge in their nine - year - old years. So they have a good self-image, or it's just a look that cheats. And he's obviously cheating, because so far only the good parts of the school system should have been given. In every case, however, there are also bad aspects and it is a shame that they should not be noticed. With the extension of schooling from eight to nine years of age, with the increase in the number of subjects and thus in school hours, with all the didactic tools in schools, with the constant awakening of teachers and parents over children in New Slovenia, we are surprised at the lack of knowledge of our children. Too little was probably invested in teacher knowledge and content. We instilled rights in our children and parents, but we did not give them responsibilities if you wanted, including values. Knowledge is a value acquired through learning, repetition, tasks, discipline, early reference and learning. With the introduction of a nine-year-old, we have gained a soft introduction to school when children learn letters for example for years before they are conquered. To be nice to the school, we introduce them to school with a game. Nothing is wrong, except that in higher classes it is difficult to replace a late one, even habits cannot then be changed. Teachers talk about powerlessness. How can students get used to learning how to teach it, when they cannot even inform their parents that their child has no job when they are allowed to make a success announcement, a former certificate in the lower classes to write only positive observations and advancements of students, when each parent can complain and require a re-examination of knowledge when no child is allowed to repeat a class there until the seventh grade, whether he has learned anything in these years or not. How can we expect knowledge if we do not refer to working habits if we do not require discipline, knowledge, and when everyone can progress without giving anything away? And one more thing. Where are the remaining successes of nine-year-olds, and when we sorted the children at a higher level according to the level of knowledge and their abilities, the so-called levels of the military, and the knowledge is amazing from nowhere. Introducing such a work in a nine-year-old means that we mainly employ a large number of teaching staff, which occurs when children are reduced in Slovenia. In New Slovenia we are concerned about the knowledge shown by our students in international research. We demand that the causes of failure be examined by the school ministry and taken into account in the design of educational processes and in the drafting of primary school legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u111	Thank you for presenting your point of view. I invite the representative of the Slovenian People's Party's Group, Comrade Michael Prevc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u112	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr President, distinguished Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The International Research on the Trends in Mathematics and Science of TIMSS has, as has already been said by the Secretary of State today, a large database that cannot be interpreted as easily as possible. In such an interpretation, I believe that it is necessary to take into account both the methodological constraints and the fact that the field of education research is very complex. However, we can say that so far the analysis has raised some questions for further in-depth analysis. There is clearly a need to pay particular attention to some areas. If I focus somewhere around these areas, in fact, the important issue raised by this study is the quality of knowledge that we can draw from data which is achieved by Slovenian students of four levels of knowledge. The results of the study show that few students reach higher knowledge limits and that many do not reach even the lowest level. The international comparison of the achievement of knowledge milestones is of concern to us because the proportion of children who have reached the highest level of mathematics in Slovenia is 4 times lower than the international average and 7 times lower than the corresponding share in England and 5 times lower than the share in Russia, Belgium, Lithuania, Latvia and Hungary. The proportion of children who have reached the maximum and high level of natural knowledge is half or a third lower than the international average and much lower than the comparable share of pupils in the European countries. It will likely be necessary to examine more closely what knowledge is being taught and what knowledge is required of the disciples. Whether these are comparable to the knowledge of students in countries that are achieving good results, especially whether they are the knowledge and competences that are needed today. And then another time. The interpretation of this study by TIMSS points to the lack of alignment of learning plans with other countries' plans. Such a finding raises questions such as whether our curricula, for example for mathematics, are designed to require students less than in other countries during the first period, especially in those countries whose students have achieved good results. If this is the case, where is the reason why we decided in Slovenia to allocate material, complexity and above all, or this means that the lost time in the first period has been compensated by increasing complexity in the last period when students have to make up for late? All these issues need to be thoroughly analysed and reviewed through these aspects as well. On the basis of the analyses we will obtain, then the documents will need to be reviewed. That's what they call a curriculum or a planned curriculum that directs schoolwork. And the third time. The results of the Timss study, in conjunction with, for example, data on which students choose to go to prom, also raise broader issues of science education and interest in science studies in us in general. It will be necessary to examine the extent to which the views on science and mathematics have an impact on the choice of studies. The percentage of students who do not like math or science is quite high in Slovenia. It should be noted that the direct causal link between whether a student likes to learn a particular subject and what he knows, of course, is not. On the basis of these results, it will also be necessary to examine what we can do at state level for a different attitude towards the learning of mathematics and nature. It is likely that the possibilities for implementing different methods and forms of work that will attract more students will need to be explored. We're gonna have to study what's going on with the textbooks. And the fourth time. The results of the Timss survey are often linked to discussions on student overload. A number of factors that are intertwined certainly affect the feeling of burden with schoolwork. It is a question of how to teach, of the quality of textbooks, of the curriculum, of understanding the meaning of certain knowledge and so on. For our further work, it will be necessary to examine thoroughly the phenomenon of overload itself, how to define it, when it occurs and, of course, to explore the causes that affect the feeling of burden. And the fifth time. One of the important issues that Timss raises is the student's own knowledge assessment. So the question is, How do students evaluate their own knowledge? The results show that these grades in our students are not consistent with the achievements. These results also open up an important area of knowledge assessment. This is said in writing, orally, the teacher's assessment, national tests, the participation of pupils in the evaluation and so on, which will need to be carefully examined. That is why the ministry, as it promises, will support in-depth analytical work on the above-mentioned issues and, of course, we agree with this in the Group of the People's Party. It is not about these studies, whether knowledge is yes or no, but about what knowledge is and what are the effective ways to acquire quality knowledge. Above all, in finding ways and ways to acquire such knowledge, it will certainly be necessary to strengthen the status of a teacher in society. In the Slovenian People's Party, we consider the issue to be a problem and, of course, it must be addressed in the National Assembly. In the Slovenian People's Party, we will also support the decision of the Home Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u113	Thank you for presenting your point of view. We have thus concluded the opening part, i.e. the presentation of the positions of individual parliamentary groups. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the international research and the proposal for a decision. The word is from a colleague of Rudy Veršnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u114	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Honorable representative of the government, respectable colleague, colleague! Good-bye! International research into trends in knowledge of mathematics and science TIMSS 2003 has been done correctly with interpretations as far as it has them. Where necessary, it also has a comparative effect in 1995 and 1999. The research required is multi-layered, so you should be careful when taking the information you want to show or justify. We must believe in the well-intentionedness of the contracting authority. This is to obtain data which are the basis for identifying both favourable and unfavourable factors in the school system. All with the intention of making improvements. We are not satisfied with the results of the survey, both professional and lay-out public, following the first responses. Mathematics and science are closely linked to those professions that highly correlate with the achievement of the development goals for which Slovenia has decided. The unfavourable trend appeared in 1995 as well as in 1999. The responsible people probably estimated that things would improve with the reform of primary education. At this point, it cannot be answered whether the reform is turning a bad trend in both areas for the better. The study covers mixed populations or one that has been educated in an eight-year primary school and has continued for the last three years in a nine-year-old. The study discusses trends in knowledge. But knowledge is a relative category. It is oblivious and obsolete in today’s rapid development. More important than knowledge are the processes through which the student goes. In these processes, a learner acquires abilities that are more permanent in man. Mathematics and science are developing a number of skills that, in the long term, are a prerequisite for the rapid adaptation of individuals in the professional and social fields and are trained for creative work. These research capabilities are discussed by TIMSS 2003 on page 26 further. There's talk of knowledge milestones. The milestone reaches the highest level by a student who shows through knowledge that he can organise information and make certain conclusions from it. He knows how to generalize and solve non-routine problems. The lower two levels include recognition and the most basic manipulation of data which are at the lowest level fragmented and unrelated. It is in the knowledge boundaries of higher quality in mathematics and science that our higher-class students are lagging behind with us comparable countries. In view of the fact that mathematics is being taught in higher classes, the question is whether such an organisation is not already a specific achievement or a lack of achievement of higher quality milestones. Teachers find that knowledge and quality of knowledge are still falling, regardless of the results of the TIMSS 2003 study. It would be interesting to look at the higher education competition in mathematics, physics, chemistry. The percentage for which students still receive recognition at the competition falls from year to year. Thus, for example, in 2004 gold Vega’s recognition was gained by students by much less than 50%. Until this data, we must be critical and a downward trend with appropriate measures to stop. In its second part of the achievement, TIMSS 2003 compares with some possible factors such as the family environment, computer at home and at school, time spent on homework, student self-image in mathematics and science, joy at subjects, comparability of achievements with school evaluation, number of school hours devoted to mathematics and science, experiments and research in science. I'd say two. Slovenian younger students have the highest self-image about how good and how fast they learn mathematics. The height of this self-image is in great disassociation with the achievements. In the upper classes, self-image is already more consistent with the achievements themselves. I wonder if the high self-image of younger students may not be due to descriptive evaluation. Descriptional evaluation is difficult, both for the teacher who gives it and for the parents and children who understand it. Simplification can quickly occur in parents and children: everything is fine. Experimental work is essential for natural objects. Slovenian elementary school students in the proportion of experimental learning in natural subjects are far behind comparable countries. And to conclude. The results are what they are. We must decide for ourselves whether these results from a national perspective call for success. The problem is multi-layered and there are no quick answers. Right now, we're assuming and assuming about them. Serious action must be taken by experts. This time we talk about mathematics and nature, there is no data on language, no social field. It may happen that at the expense of solving one area, we ignore another. A greater role needs to be given to teachers in the process. Not at the expense of bureaucratic measures or formalised measures to stifle their healthy insight into this issue. In informal discussions, they realistically estimate that the factors that have affected the quality of learning in the past have become useless. Students don't do homework, they don't do casual learning, but they do occasionally for evaluation. Knowledge is no longer a value. Parents cancel their role and transfer all powers to a school that can only partially replace family and parents. There is too much psychodactism on the part of institutions to help teachers. Finally, I find that the very large contribution to the renovation of education does not return the expected results, and the consequences are much worse than the missed investments in the economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u115	Thank you. It's Frantz Capuder's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u116	Your Honor! In Slovenia, there are more and more children who do not like learning, and very few are reaching the highest level of knowledge that requires independent analysis and use of knowledge in non-routine situations. At the presentation of the third international study on mathematics and science, TIMSS 2003 presented the National Coordinator for TIMSS in Slovenia and I think that this conclusion is good and can very briefly describe the results of the TIMSS 2003 survey. Even though we all find out how burdened our children are, how much we have invested in knowledge and school reform, all of a sudden such a negative shock. In view of this expected school reform, we would expect to be at least above average, if not even below the summit, but the truth is cruel and has come very quickly. The finding that Slovenian students are very weak in understanding concepts and in linking knowledge shows that the previous authority did not want to see the state of mathematics and science reported by the nine-year-old experimental monitoring reports, the results of national knowledge experiments at the end of a nine-year study and evaluation study, as well as the well-meaning warnings of educators and administrators that something was wrong. In this time Timss, however, we may be surprised at another observation. This one speaks of something wrong with our perception of knowledge. The younger students have a high self-esteem of knowledge from mathematics and therefore believe that they are good in mathematics, but after mathematical achievements in the last place between the European English-speaking and the Far East, only Norway is behind them. In Nova Slovenija we are aware that the possibilities for implementing different methods and forms of work that will attract students to a greater extent will need to be explored, as well as to improve textbooks. It will also need to be deepened in the occurrence of overload, which is influenced by multiple intertwined factors; distribution of learning substance, teaching method, quality of textbooks, understanding the importance of certain knowledge. For too long, we have known that our teacher’s education is poor or too weak. And that schools should offer them better quality studies, additional education and training. This is a real challenge for the country. It depends on whether our school will be able to adapt to faster changes and comply with modern trends by means of learning and teaching. This is the only way she will be able to give youths a rich journey, helping them to develop into viewed and wise personalities. At the same time, allowing them to use knowledge in their lives. In Novi Slovenija we are confident that the new composition at the Ministry of Education will be part of these tasks. I will, of course, support the decisions of the parental committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u117	Thank you. My word is Barbara Žgajner Tavš.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u118	Thank you very much. In the introductory presentations of the views of the members of the groups, at least to my understanding, more or less everyone came to the same conclusions when studying or reading the results of the 2003 Timss survey. Knowledge or level of knowledge of mathematics and science among Slovenian primary schoolchildren is at a low level. That is why, in fact, these results must be, even though they touch only a certain part, i.e. a certain area of mathematics and nature, in fact some signal for the government to take a step in the direction of knowledge in this area or knowledge, I will say that it will be fully repaired. Level of knowledge, I'm talking about. So much more so perhaps I am surprised by the views of the two parliamentary groups, which in fact express concerns about the results we have today on the table. I will say again, regardless of the 2003 results, the results have shown poor knowledge and must be an alarm for the Minister's action. Therefore, in the Slovenian National Party, we will, of course, support the conclusions drawn up by the mother's working body. Finally, I would like to conclude with another thought that my colleague led me to when he said that knowledge was not a value. The European Union emphasises knowledge, or knowledge-based society. We Slovenians have also joined this European Community. So knowledge must also be a value in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u119	Thank you. My colleague Dushan Kumer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u120	Thank you for your word. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! First, I must say that I was above the decisions taken or conclusions of my parent’s working body, the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport, a little bit of a bad will when I read them. In particular, because of the first decision in which I believe that the premature evaluation of Timss' research is defined. Both the Minister of State and the Secretary of State announced to the public last December that further studies would be commissioned for the interpretation of Tims' survey and that they would be the basis for final assessments, findings, reasons and proposals for action. So the assessment of Tims' research will only be relevant after the second decision, which was adopted by this committee, which instructs the government what it must do in one year. He would also recall from the Ministry that, at the end of last year, it was a direct and clear question whether they were considering the abolition of national knowledge tests in the third and sixth classes of nine-year-olds who gave an objective picture of the knowledge of students, given that the TIMSS survey showed that students had a distorted image of what you all were saying today, of their knowledge, that they would not stop it overnight and that this issue would be resolved on the basis of expert opinions and proposals. Nevertheless, it has been possible to hear a completely different attitude in recent times, on the contrary, this is an end. Such a rapid and unintended change of opinion and position is not good, especially when it comes to education. That is why I agree with the opinion of those who say that school is primarily a serious matter and only by learning and often by hard work can the best results be achieved. Otherwise, there's no way. It's hard to choose another option. But I don't agree that every minister or minister gets the chance to sit in this hot ministerial chair first to think about change or reform. Both schools and teachers and students need peace in particular to try to implement the long-term solutions planned. This does not mean, of course, that all those who are not few and who are outside the school gates — from the profession, politics, to the executive branch — are particularly helpful and not helpful. To also create a positive climate and mood. It is therefore entirely inappropriate for the results of TIMSS research to be directly linked to the eligibility or ineligibleness of the introduction of a nine-year-old at this time. In this context, these evaluations of TIMSS's research, which make public speakers, such as the fact that these results are catastrophic, that the situation in Slovenian education is catastrophic and so on. Instead, many institutions are waiting for this gathering, including, in particular, the Ministry of Education, which deals with this area, a lot of work. Last but not least, we have two ministers and two ministries in this mandate. They will work or work and create and less politicize. At the end. Given that as one of the parents who has been using this public service for almost 30 years with my children, i.e. schools, I also now have users in all three levels of primary school, high school and university, allow me my modest opinion, which is perhaps one of the reasons that sometimes we are not satisfied with the results and that research does not show what we expect. I think it is necessary to take an even more engaged bite into the curiculative reconstruction, which is mainly about the teacher's work, the burden on the students and the increased active role of the students. Above all, more will have to be done to stimulate, evaluate and acquire teachers' knowledge so that they can stimulate students for greater activity and engagement. They'll have to do more colleges here to educate teachers. In short, a more positive attitude towards knowledge and learning means, in particular, a change in society's attitude towards the teacher's profession. As long as any less important civil servant is worth more than a teacher in the third and fourth classes of primary school, we will face such research results. We believe that the integrated development of the child is an important segment of this development, far more important than many other neoliberalist priorities of the consumer society we are witnessing to today, here and now. Yesterday, we heard a lot about this in the questions sent to us about future development and vision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u121	Thank you. I'd like to take the floor with my colleague Milenk Ziherl.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u122	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Nice greetings to government representatives, colleagues and colleagues. I was also surprised last year when I saw in the media the results of this analysis, in a negative sense of the word. I expected a better condition. This may have been due to this high self - image that was not only with the students but also with the teachers. Now I would like to draw attention to some of the consequences that follow or will come to Slovenia on the basis of all these bad results. First, I'd like to look at the Lisbon strategy. In the framework of the Lisbon Strategy, it is also envisaged to increase the proportion of studies in science and technology colleges about three times, i.e. studies in science and technology. This will be difficult to realize in Slovenia, if only foreknowledge, basic knowledge is poorer rated, it has proved to be poor and the popularity of this study with years of decline. Today, I have been able to see in the paper that the sixth framework programme provides for a considerable amount of resources, €17 and a half billion, and it shows that they are intended for biotechnology, information technology, nanotechnology, the environment, alternative sources of energy. In all these areas, there is a need for knowledge of science, science and mathematics. The lack of this will lead to the decline of Slovenia. Today I also saw one analysis, an assessment of the state of the 250 world cities where Ljubljana occupied 81 cities, perhaps 10, 20 places too weak. And I thought, bad hockey club, dead football, monopoly Mercator, but no, the worst Ljubljana was rated in education and aviation. That's what we're saying. We've met again with a bad grade from school. The atmosphere in companies is also not conducive to natural technical knowledge. As a rule, graduates of technology, engineers of natural and technical mathematical sciences tend to run more and more into bureaucracy or other jobs. I might mention another example of a successful company, namely the Ljubljana-based company BIA Separations, the biotechnologies of based products that have a lot of advantages. They don't need a lot of baseline raw materials, energy needs are small, it's not about burning 80 tons of coke a day, like in my former company, and of course releasing the appropriate amounts of harmful substances, they don't cause noise, it's a quiet science, and especially for products that have the size of an aspirin, where there's not much material, you get a lot of money. All these bad results in science and mathematics may be due to past wrong approaches in school. One such matter was certainly too much material, the books were getting heavier and thicker, and apparently they were bad because they had to be changed every year. So, every year, other textbooks were prescribed. Perhaps the school rules, rights and duties themselves - with rights, you could postpone and postpone your duties until May. In doing so, the material was collected for a larger phone book, says a large pile of material, which in itself deterred the students. Thus, some schools have an abnormal number of exams. Well, maybe the only bright exceptions, and that with me as an individual, are solving these cases. For example, I am referring to the local environment, but the school of bishops is above the Slovenian average. At the high school in Philosopher, there is an Olympic champion from the Olympics in physics who allegedly caused the teacher trouble because he was no longer able to give him a job. To conclude, I would like to say to the Minister that I have already raised a question at the previous meeting, I would like to stress the importance of science and technology that students have been directed there since primary school, then students and later in college, and perhaps a more friendly environment for graduates of these knowledge in companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u123	Thank you. My word, my colleague, Mojca Kucler Dolinar.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Good day to you all! I'd like to start with a better one first. It is good that the achievements of the sample of Slovenian pupils in science are slightly better and that Slovenia is on average here. It is not good, however, that mathematical achievements are on a lower level, i.e. students of the third and fourth classes, so much below the average. However, as a large majority of the tests, this Slovenia, as a country, can also correct in 2006, if we decide to carry out this test at that time. Well, from this point of view, it's not that critical. A lot harder will be compensated late by students whose knowledge is less. With a good programme, with good methods of education and, hopefully, with the knowledge of the students, I think that will work too. Despite some concerns about whether we should actually take the results of the tests, if our children were younger than the vast majority of those involved or had fewer years of schooling, I also have to follow the opinion of those experts who, with a particular analysis, found that the results would be similar, even though they would take into account only the tasks relating to the substance already considered from the curriculum. When I talked about these results with some teachers or teachers of lower classes of nine years, they said critically and self-critically: like more and more students who are learning only for points, there are also increasing numbers of teachers who are teaching, who are learning, who are attending seminars only for points, just for advancement. Therefore, there is no doubt that there is a need to raise the trend in both the education of pupils and teachers, since such a way of working, i.e. for points, does not lead to the formation of a knowledge-based society, but rather to competition, but obviously in the light of the results of the study, not in that positive sense. The next problem that some teachers see is that in the early years, children face too little content with logical thinking or too little content for logical thinking. Both between the content covered by those textbooks which are mandatory and the content concerning additional materials. However, if teachers, at their own discretion, use material outside the approved list, which nevertheless seems appropriate and useful for the development and strengthening of knowledge, and, as teachers say, encounter unpleasantness in possible inspections. The same is true when they find that there is a need for a further period of up to two fortifications, and on that particular date, a monitoring task is already envisaged in the curriculum they wrote down at the beginning of the year. Here too, with the eyes of the teacher, the inspection is the one that is primarily important to the administrative formal matching of the program more than the final result, knowledge. With the obligation to announce all knowledge checks, of course to the satisfaction and satisfaction of the students, teachers note that this is somehow encouraging children to learn about the campaign, not so much to consolidate the substance. As a result, this also led to lower levels of monitoring or during study hours. Especially mathematics is one where good foundations are needed, as well as good upgrades. An additional problem is also likely to be the transition from the first grade of a nine-year-old to the second. In the first, almost everything is allowed, so children play by their own judgment and maintain concentration, learn at a time when they can concentrate. On the other hand, this is a period where children are very creative and it is difficult to find the right limit for the relationship between play and learning, but this right limit will probably also have to be found because children are having difficulty making a mental leap when moving from the first to the second grade, and now it's getting more and more real. So these discussions with both teachers and parents and taking into account the results of the research also confirm my belief that it will be necessary to rewind curricula, upgrade what appears to be good, and eliminate those standards that in these years of applying to a nine-year-old appear to be poor. I am very pleased that this is exactly what the State Secretary of the Ministry, Mrs Šverčev, announced. In this way, I will support the proposed conclusions of the parental committee and hope that these will also help improve the level of knowledge of primary schoolchildren. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u125	Thank you. My colleague, Bojan Kontic, has been reported. He's not in the hall. I'd like to take the floor with my colleague Ivan Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u126	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues. I would extend this debate today to the level of knowledge of our high school students and perhaps students. At the same time, a statement by one of Slovenian professors, when it is possible to joke, is likely that there is a lot of truth here, that about 3,000 over-rated children are born a year in Slovenia, and about one third of them are already demoted in primary school, the second third is tired in high school, and the last third is done by the university. Today, I'm not as surprised as I would be. When this international study is presented, it is also worrying to me that we are so lagging behind other countries or that we are at the same level as we were at the last survey in 1999. In doing so, the question arises to me whether it would not make sense, perhaps even if it had been done, but I do not know, a similar research of knowledge, someone comparable to the level of secondary knowledge, and see whether this poorer level of knowledge of our primary school students also has consequences in the level of secondary education and probably in the area of university education. I must say that today I am much less surprised by the information I received as a member of the Committee on Higher Education, Science and Technology at Maribor University, where we received information that only 15% of students enrolled regularly also finish studies. Perhaps this is due to the poorer foreknowledge of our children, perhaps there are other reasons. I think he needs to study the profession and find solutions for that kind of knowledge. I am certainly assessing that such a public debate as today is useful, necessary and I will be pleased to support the proposals of the decisions adopted by the home labour body. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u127	Thank you. I'd like to take the floor with my colleague Aloys Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u128	Madam President, Madam Secretary, colleagues and colleagues, thank you very much for the floor. I must say that, and I would like to point out this in the first place, I am very pleased that the former Minister, Comrade Gaber, is among us today in the ranks of the Members and I am pleased that he will also debate and, in fact, I look forward to this debate with interest. However, I initially said this because once, when he was a minister, I asked him here in the National Assembly about the values of the school system. I am convinced that education is directly linked to learning outcomes. For if students are decent, they usually achieve much better results, they learn more than if they are restless. And Mr. Minister then, I will only be the last part of his answer, replied: "The answers I have received show me that you must have a personal reason for such claims, which are flat-rate and it would be significantly better not to say them. Slovenian school is good. If there were as many good intentions relating to Slovenian school as good in Slovenian school, even in your claims." So this is what I wanted to point out, that he just said that Slovenian school is good. I have no reason not to believe. Public opinion studies also show that Slovenians and Slovenians trust this school and that 80% of the citizens believe that this school is good, but now it is successful, and this research now means something, I would say, a cold shower for all of us and actually does not confirm in practice that this Slovenian school is as good as it has recently claimed. I also read in the media when this same study by an American student put the American president Bill Clinton back on the scene a little back in time for such findings of shouting and screaming. In fact, he was well aware of what that meant. In our country right now - although I am not an expert in school systems, for education, as far as I know these things as parents, one of those who accompany children on this path - we are looking for excuses if our students were younger, that they have fewer hours. Even I have read these findings, when it comes to this analysis, to these results of manipulation, that this initiative of parents, called a school by human measure, is behind it, then even a comparison, that the results are such because the educational structure of our parents is worse and similar. Anyway, so the fact is that our students compared themselves to others have become much worse, and that of course indicates that something "doesn't count". Something's not right. And now, of course, it is up to those who are, of course, responsible to answer and analyse. It would be very interesting to do one such study on teachers teaching these subjects. I don't know what the result would be in public. Otherwise, we would have been read back, now we could say, well, but it would also be good for Members to do some research. This would also be possible, of course, but at this point we are talking about students, saying, we are talking about some of our futures and knowledge, depending on how Slovenian society develops. I am also sure that our students actually learn a lot, but the question is how well they learn, whether they receive math assignments, because only through tasks can they actually practice. I myself observe my high school student at home and see that he does not actually have any tasks in mathematics; it is said that he does not get them. Are our students too much at school? I'm saying yes, because he's been at school longer than I am at work. Now, is this teaching just about subjects that are compulsory, then there's a lot of extracurricular content to which the school addresses them, and then there's actually a lot of time in school. After what has already been mentioned, this competitive orientation. I myself watch, say, sports performances of our students, either in primary school or in high school, I'd say it's some kind of extreme aggression in these sports competitions. A few years ago, I was invited to a school where elementary school students competed in handball. I think they came from Zagorje primary school. The students broke two classes in elementary school, but the management of this school did not respond. It went on as if nothing had happened, and the game continued. At the time, I was thinking it wasn't good. If you had the option to make your own decisions, of course there wouldn't be a game there that day, because something had to be done. But it's just a case like this that I've seen myself and I've seen it with my own eyes. What's wrong with our curriculum, our textbooks? Apparently, there's something wrong with these textbooks, too. I looked at the biology textbook myself a while ago - because here is also a talk about how they were classified in the natural field - on two sides of the A4 format I counted 40 foreign terms in the cell chapter. Since I studied cytology myself, I have to say that I had to look into a special book, what all these expressions mean. I could give you some of them, like mitochondrials, then Goldie's apparatus, endoplasmic reticulum, and so on. The whole species, 40 strangers! And then when I asked if you had learned this stranger, she said yes. I said, and you understand what a cell is, and then I saw that she didn't really understand the basic message, so she could describe what a cell was. It's said that in a learning system like this, something doesn't add up. She's been learning a few hours of phrases that don't tell her anything. And if that is the case, then I too am a proponent of having these teaching contents carefully looked at to determine what children are capable of and what is appropriate or inappropriate. Let me finish. I am also sure that much more will have to be invested in the knowledge of teachers in the future, not to fight through a point-based system of progress, but that teachers will really have to be respected by teachers and that children and society as a whole will respect them in their work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u129	Thank you, Comrade Sok. I'd like to invite my colleague Joseph Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u130	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Each school assessment, each result can be commented and interpreted in different aspects. Some enthusiastically commendable, others with dramatic concern and disappointment. But the truth is, luckily, there's always only one. The path to this is not always trivial, but the truth is, in the case of knowledge, only in the application of knowledge in life. The Slovenian public reacted violently to the results of the TIMSS. If we accept this anxiety with a real measure of sobriety, however, we cannot pass the results and pass the in-depth debate. Obviously, some areas in our school system will have to be given special attention. My purpose in this debate is not to point my finger at those responsible for the present situation, I hope they see themselves in these results. My aim is to alert those responsible for the thorough and professional reflection and effective adaptation of the school system. I'm not that worried about the current grade, I'm worried about the trends. If they continue to do so, the Lisbon strategy for us will be just a pious wish and a phrase from the EU terminology. In addition, I am further concerned about the research in mathematics and science and the results achieved in these areas. I argue that without this knowledge, no society will ever attain the status of a knowledge society. I cannot accept that, for example, only 2% of Slovenian younger students reach the limit of the highest level of mathematical knowledge and that 16% of children do not reach the limit of the lower level of mathematical knowledge. According to TIMSS, the maximum level of natural knowledge milestone reached 3% of Slovenian pupils, and 13% of children did not reach a lower level of natural knowledge. The proportions of children who have reached the maximum and high level of natural knowledge are half or a third lower than the international average and much lower than the comparable share of pupils in European countries. The results of the TIMSS study in relation to the data on which students choose to be selected for graduation also raise a broader issue of science and interest in science studies in us. It will be necessary to examine to what extent the attitude towards science and mathematics influences the choice of studies. The percentage of students who do not like math or science is very high in Slovenia. "Asian tigers" are separated from other countries not only by their children's achievements being the highest, but also by overcoming the highest proportion of children with the highest quality of knowledge, i.e. the ability to use what they have learned creatively. According to experts, this is not only a way of teaching but a different culture, whose very important feature is a positive attitude towards knowledge and learning, which is a value in itself. And the Slovenians? And the Slovenian pussy? The proportion of children who have achieved the knowledge they have identified as the highest in the study is four times lower than the international average, seven times lower than the corresponding work in England and five times lower than the share in Russia, Belgium, Lithuania, Latvia and Hungary. The more people deepen into TIMSS results, the more the question is about the state of the spirit in our country. Conclusion: I will support the proposed conclusions of the parent working body and I want the Ministry of Education to have a happy hand in the welfare of Slovenian children, Slovenian mathematics, Slovenian science and Slovenian society in particular. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u131	Thank you. I ask the representatives of the United States to hold their consultations outside. Member and Members of the United List, please, if you don't mind the meeting. Can you be such proper Members and do the following, listening to the other Members who have prepared for their speech and probably want to share it with you in the hope that someone will be able to convince someone? We're continuing our session. My colleague Rudolf Petan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u132	Thank you for your word. So, first of all, I would like to give my support, of course, to these conclusions drawn up by the Committee, based on the data available to us, because these tables are more than eloquent. Since my colleagues and colleagues have already said a lot, I might be focusing on some of the data shown in the numbers and, as we say, the numbers don't lie, so I wouldn't invent all sorts of apparitions myself. See, in the last-class table, Slovenia has reached relatively poor results, and I will give concrete examples. If the international average for a milestone is the highest level of knowledge of 6%, in Slovenia it is 3%. If the high level of knowledge is the international average of 24%, it is 21% in Slovenia. And now, what's worrying comes along, and I'll back up later. On average, however, the knowledge milestone is 51% international, 60% in Slovenia and 90% lower in Slovenia and 75% international. What does that mean? Now let only two sentences mean the highest level of knowledge: that students can organize information, generalize, solve problems that are not routine, and conclude and base conclusions on data. So here we are the worst, here we are far behind others, but we are relatively good at the middle level of knowledge, where students can use basic mathematical knowledge in known situations, it is said that in known situations we are good, but when we have to conclude on this basis we are firmly below the international average, so let us say Serbia, Romania, Lithuania, Latvia, Israel-kar for two times, say Slovakia for three times, Estonia for three times, Hong Kong, South Korea, Thailand for ten times, twelve times, thirteen times, Singapore for fourteen times, thirteen times, if I have correctly calculated. This means, from these results for the upper classes, that we raise for a gray average. On average, we are still on an equal footing, but when we reach a higher and highest level, the knowledge of these students who have been tested is deep, deep below average. That's bad, and that's worrying. It was a math table. If we look at the same subject for the younger population, the situation is even worse. If the international average, say, for the highest level of knowledge 8%, is only 2% in Slovenia, it says, we are four times below the average. If the international average for high levels of knowledge is 33%, Slovenia has 18%. If the milestone for the average international 64% is 55% in Slovenia, that is to say, we are no longer reaching young or medium levels, which is worrying. But the only milestone of the lowest level of knowledge is exactly on the international average, that is 84%. That's what they say. In younger generations, we're much worse. We do not exceed the international average in any category. And if you'll let me know what the highest level means. Students are able to use their understanding of knowledge in very different relatively demanding situations - we never reach an international average or middle level where students can use basic mathematical knowledge in known situations, or even in lower classes, but only at the lowest limit we are on average, which means that students have some basic mathematical knowledge, they show understanding of integers and so on. Now, if this is the standard, then we really don't have a good promise! I just hope that this knowledge will strengthen a little bit in the next senior years, but that shows the tables, and I didn't invent it, and that's very worrying for me. Now, if I substantiate this with another table, the time to teach mathematics because we're always in mathematics proves the following. I agree that maybe this table is really not the best, but if we look at it globally, we can assess the following; that students from countries that are significantly higher than us have significantly fewer hours of mathematics. See, in Slovenia there is supposed to be an average of 116 hours. Singapore, first in line, is far, far ahead. 14 times, we have discovered that it is ahead of us and has less than two hours. Hungary, which is also strong ahead of us, even for two hours, the Netherlands, which is also strong ahead of us, we have only 94, for example, Cyprus, which is also ahead of us, and only 75 hours. What follows, and what can we conclude from this? Here we can conclude that the number of hours of this subject is relative to the good average, but the knowledge that students get from these hours is no longer on average, but is below average. This is said to be giving - I don't know - or a learning system, I'm not going to define what it is. So please, don't tell me that teachers learn bad or whatever, teachers teach by the system, I think teachers are good, but teachers can't do anything anymore like they think, but they have a constant instruction: that's right, that's different. These are learning programs that have to stick to them, that can be 10 textbooks, but they're all the same, only chapters are replaced and so on. It is said that our students from these classes do not get that quality of knowledge - it is also worrying. That, I'd say, is perhaps the most worrying! It is said that we students are burdened, have many hours, probably also many textbooks, at least by the weight of the bags they have many, many things to read, but it is only obvious factual knowledge. However, to draw something out of this that would not only be in known situations, so that we can take advantage of this knowledge even in unforeseen situations, and that is no longer the case. And that's what these charts show. All the tables, I've analyzed them well, show roughly in this direction that we are raising first for a gray average, because the number behind the above-average knowledge shown in these tables is strong below average, but we are good on average and that we have relatively, I'll say, the appropriate number of hours, but obviously these hours do not get the children of that appropriate knowledge. I will not define now what needs to be done, something will obviously need to be done, and I hope that the Ministry and this government will take appropriate measures to also make sure that the number of those over-average students who will receive such knowledge in these hours will be able to use it even for those more complex cases, which are now apparently only rare individuals. I will, of course, support these conclusions that the Committee has drawn up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u133	Thank you, Comrade Petan. I invite my colleague Mitja Ljubeljska to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u134	Thank you for your word. Dear Vice President, everyone else is present! I am aware that this is the moment we meet in the most sensitive area, these are our children. The upbringing of a healthy, happy and promising child requires family, good teachers, education professionals, those who protect his health and security, and finally requires wise policies. We have before us a summary of the results of an international comparative study which analyses the knowledge of primary schoolchildren in the field of mathematics and science. We must not ignore the loss of results. This study seriously reminds us that we have lost our children’s education and education somewhere. In life, many things and many things can be improvised, strange ideas can also be practiced, and experimented, but never, I stress, never do so in raising and educating children. I am not an expert in education myself, but let me ask some questions and dilemmas as one of my parents about the emphasis from the study mentioned above. Some of this has been said many times today, but it will not hurt to hear it again. How poor the TIMSS results are, the data shows that the proportion of children who master mathematics at the highest level is 4 times lower than the international average, 7 times lower than the share of these children in England and 5 times lower than the share in Russia, Belgium, Lithuania, Latvia and Hungary. The proportion of children enrolled in the highest and high level of natural knowledge is half or a third lower than the international average and much lower than students in European countries. The achievements of our students are on the tail of European students, whom we would like to reach, not to mention comparisons with the achievements of Asian students. I wonder where the reasons are. Why have these failures so far been hidden from children, parents, and the public? Who's responsible for this? I'm sure they're at least or nothing to blame for this failure. Nor are teachers, who are just contractors of prescribed curricula and school curricula and teach in accordance with them. I ask whether none of the people responsible in this country has so far seen that everything is not just as it should be and has not acted in a timely manner. We had to wait for this international study, which was not the first of its kind, and the achievements were similar and not visible, but even the decline and trend of our children's knowledge declines compared to the better. Older students don't like math. These are 65%. Biology 50%. Chemistry 55%. Physics is 66%. According to this data, we are right among all countries at the top in a negative sense. I'm sure no special analysis is necessary to determine that it's still natural and human, that if you don't like something, you can't be successful. I'm asking teaching experts why schoolchildren don't like all these things. Perhaps because it is precisely these subjects that we need to make a little more effort, to think independently and logically, and to be creative a few times? And our school system probably doesn't give any emphasis in this direction. I have also read that our children have less than 4 hours of mathematics than the average of countries in Europe, but the Singaporean peers have less than half an hour of education than our children, and they are at the top of the scale. And second, that foreign children on average spend less time on natural homework than Slovenia. The study concludes that natural achievements are inversely proportional to the time for homework. Our schoolchildren also have, which is almost amazing, a high self-image in the knowledge of mathematics and science. However, according to mathematical achievements, they are among the European, English-speaking and Far East countries. Part of the response is likely that the assessments are obtained on lower evaluation criteria and only through an objective and independent international test is true knowledge. I've never seen a self-critician in school before. To make it a reason for the failure of schoolchildren to seek out inadequate quality programs and poor curricula. On the contrary. I was shocked by the statement made by a senior teacher at one of the consultations that he said in interpreting the results of the TIMSS study: "It has been shown that the mother's education in nine-year-olds was significantly lower than in the same age of eight. All such research shows that the education of the mother is too disproportionately linked to school success." End of quote. At the same time, this highly educated expert does not say that TIMSS also shows that in the most successful countries parental education is much lower than in Slovenia. So this thesis doesn't hold. The profession is not self-critical. He's looking for mistakes in under-educated mothers, not in himself. The profession has drawn up curricula that differ considerably from the average European plans. The profession refused to accept the criticism that reform was not without its mistakes. The profession does not want to address the nine-year deficits, change external checks, relieve teachers of unnecessary administration, do not want to prepare a new rules on responsibilities, duties and rights of students, teachers and parents, do not want to reduce the number of elective subjects and so on. At the same time, the statements of some members of the previous government, such as: "With the complete removal of exteriors after the first three years, it is a measure that borders on parody; it is assessed as not excessively imaginative." Further: "The abolition of the exterior is when you are dealing with a voluntary approach..." and so on. To make a very malicious statement on the problems of Ivy School in recent times. After a similar study of trends in mathematics and science, U.S. president Clinton immediately ordered the renovation of the primary school system. The same was true in Germany. With us today, any minor change is causing real panic in those who have been shaping our school policy for 12 years. I think different approaches and changes are needed. Schools need to be reinvigorated, a little more discipline is introduced, children should be referred to independent and logical thinking, and the emphasis on creativity should be placed on children, positive values should be raised, cultural levels raised, teachers should be given due respect by children and society, and recognition of their work and effort. And there's something else about teachers. I'm definitely on their side. It was written down a while ago. [[Quote]] : "In my life I have great allies, intelligence, curiosity, individuality, faith, love and laughter. All of these give me unrelenting strength. I am a teacher and thank God for every day." [[End of quote.]] I don't think there's anything else to say about this. If you think that's what one of the Slovenian teachers wrote, you're wrong. With us, teachers' records are different, such as: how burdened we are, it seems, by writing all possible preparations, repairs, evaluations, records, observations, conferences, study groups, seminars, speaking hours, circles. Did anyone wonder how many teachers they were teaching? The teacher’s work is not in an increased amount of work with students, but it is in bureaucratic work. The role of a teacher in our country is pooled to the extremes. Therefore, we must do our utmost to return their basic mission, that is to teach and educate them, with all due respect and gratitude for their work, for they are shaping or at least co-forming our children. The Minister for Education, Mr Beast, will not have any easy work and is in a very ungrateful position, because something will have to be changed. In recent times, however, any change in education for the current opposition, LDS and SD, the former United List, has shown itself to be a panic and reacts as if it were shaking the nest. Your Honor! On one of the committees, a colleague from Liberal Democracy said, "Let no one here imagine that he is an expert." I am not imagining this at all, but as a citizen, as a father and as a Member, I can express my opinion and rightly expect answers to the questions raised and, above all, I expect specific activities. When we all learn, I stress that the better future of our country, of all of us and of our children is in knowledge, which will require a number of changes in the school system, then the results of international research on the knowledge of our schoolchildren will be good or perhaps even excellent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u135	Thank you. My word is Alice Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u136	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Nice greeting to the government, colleagues and colleagues! Members and the public are familiar with the results of the international research into trends in mathematics and science. The purpose of the research is to enable countries, on an international level, to determine under the same conditions the level of knowledge of their schoolchildren from the content they have the opportunity to learn in school. In the participating countries, the views of pupils, teachers and school administrators are also measured for teaching and knowledge and other factors affecting learning. In this way, or in cooperation with the research, an individual country sees developments in education over the years, sees the effects of renovations and changes, identifies the effectiveness and the right decisions. This is the third study by TIMMS, which should be better or its results on the fact that we also participated in the first and second studies. The first study was conducted in 1995 among students in the years 3, 4, 7 and 8. In both math and science, all have been classified above the international average of participating countries. In doing so, we must take into account the fact that they were among the older students who participated in the study. A third study showed that knowledge has not changed significantly over the years between the two studies, unlike some other countries that have progressed. In view of the above, it could be said that the level of knowledge has deteriorated or were only in a more age comparable group. The fact that we have decided to introduce a new concept of primary education in Slovenia, we have introduced a nine-year primary school, could encourage this information and the desire to raise the level of knowledge and not that it is falling. A change of such an important system as schooling, where teachers and principals deal with living matter, so students are supposed to go to our school to improve everything. But that didn't happen. The study showed that students enrolled in a nine - year - old achieved significantly worse results than peers in an eight - year - old. We note that our students have only made progress in rare areas. Perhaps again with both legs we have stepped into another experiment. The first one was focused on education, when we turned everything good in the school system at the time and put an end to high school in the meantime, and went something new. When we realized that this was not the best change, we turned everything upside down again and largely shut down vocational schools. For two years I attended the secondary school for sociology and general culture Vide Janežič in Ljubljana, and for the last two years I attended the Polish high school. Similarly, the introduction of a nine - year - old is happening to us. The nine-year-old has not yet been introduced in all places of Slovenia, and the results of the survey cannot fully show the state of the nine-year-old. But I can talk about the experiment, no matter what. Why? For reasons unknown to me, it has been urgent to move the specific date for mandatory introduction across Slovenia, and it is evidence that we have not been prepared for change, both organisationally or spatially, as well as substantively. The fact that there are fewer and fewer children in negative demographic trends has forced local communities to build, build and build schools and equip new classrooms, which must have been provided with high resources from local budgets. I hope that the new government will be able to reverse the decline in birth rates and that in a year we will be able to fill these new buildings and buildings of schools and classrooms that we have equipped with modern equipment. That we were not substantively prepared, I can say because of the results of the research. Our schoolchildren, who are probably not to blame for their failures, because knowledge also depends on how they are taught, on the interest that the teacher can or cannot encourage in students, are lagging behind in knowledge for most comparable European countries, and even more so for some Asian countries. All of this actually dictates changes that a nine-year-old, that is, a new education system, should make in the logic of things. Once again, this did not happen if we know that students enrolled in a nine - year - old have achieved significantly worse results than eight - year - olds. The TIMSS study is just another one of many who point out that in our school it is not everything that should be, or the results should be better. How we will increase the knowledge of our students and what kind of school we want is a question for all of us, especially for teachers, parents, administrators, and professionals involved. We just need to know, not just when the results of a study show that we are not as good as we think of ourselves as cold showers. I will support the decisions of the parent committee in the hope that we will know the right reasons for the bad results and, above all, the right way to make the results of the research more successful in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u137	Thank you, Mrs. Jeraev. Mr. Aleš Gulič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u138	Dear Mr President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. In my performance, I would particularly like to touch on these overload stories, because it is in some ways very much related to the TIMSS study, which we have already heard very, very much about today. By the way, what's this all about? We continue to listen to the story of how children are overloaded with school and, of course, then the demands to reduce or alter the number of classes to reduce the number of hours of schooling; in general, that the school will somehow be educated and become, of course, much more friendly, much more pleasant, such that all children would like to walk with it, of course, parents, teachers and, in fact, even Slovenian society. Well, the research that was done next to TiIMSS is another one, and it also shows that it's not that bad. That we don't have, say, psychosomatic diseases, that children relatively like to go to school, that after TIMSS research, they're, I'll say, average after overload and knowledge. One thing is, of course, what research shows is how much children are really burdened, and the other thing is what it is. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u139	Please! The hall is turning into a beekeeper. Only Mr. Gulic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u140	Mr. President, thank you very much. Yeah, where was I? [[...]] [[Laugh.]] Yes, in the National Assembly, in front of the talking classmates or whatever they say. [[...]] Good. It is that children love to be appropriate to their parents, and they love to be in harmony with what is said in a way that is public. And because there's a lot of public talk at all ends and places about overload, then they've also asked at home something like that and because they like to do it, even if it's good for them - they're too frantic to take advantage of it - they just say they're overloaded. But if we look at the research, we can see that there are no psychosomatic diseases that would point to this, because, of course, children are asked and not their parents, and they don't feel like they're doing much for school at home. These are the results that can be read and, of course, discussed. As can be discussed on the results from TIMSS, it is very negative to draw something positive from this. Basically, all those who we are and parents, and who we were children, if our memory reaches so far back, we know that we have always been very, very overburdened and that if teachers were good enough, we knew in some way to instill a good self-image. Of course, some have not done so. And now here we have a very good self-image, results that we can estimate as good or bad, and on the other hand, the eternal story of overload, although all the positive data do not show that. The fact that we give these children messages that they are overburdened and that the school is really too difficult is also linked to the fact that our time is changing so quickly, and the demands that we as parents are not actually able to follow it anymore. What was sometimes enough for two generations is that even old parents helped their grandchildren learn, they are now out. Even our parents can't take it anymore. Knowledge goes a different way. Skills, technology, and so on, of course, make it impossible. And then, of course, it also happens that parents cannot help their children, and the overload, the feeling of overload, suddenly becomes evidence of overload. Things are turning their own way. And kids know how to do it, so it's good for them. Don't worry that this isn't happening, and they really don't have to believe it. Believe them when they are asked how different, when these views and aspects of their research and research appear, they show something else, in fact, which is generally in the Slovenian air. Another thing, mathematics and science. It is clear, in fact, that it was in some way on the side, but not in schools, but the relationship, I will say, of the entire nation in science, to technical knowledge was, say, much worse than the other in the last 20 years. The ambitions of parents who usually go through children, even when their own lives were unfulfilled according to expectations, were such that everything was directed towards humanistic and social sciences. Of course, we don't have this research. It's not just math, it's nature. There's a lot of other stuff. A person is an integral being and certainly does not just function as a good student, a good student, a good student, can, of course, only function as a whole person and I think that we have forgotten a little too much about this here, as we have discussed today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u141	Thank you, Mr. Gulic. Mr Rudolf Moge has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u142	All Members and Members of Parliament have a good greeting! We all know that yellow gold has its price, but knowledge is priceless. And when we evaluate these things, we need to look at how our parents, our teachers and our students were compared to other countries. What have we had since 1991? We had our own country, we went to another social system, along with walking to this other social system, and in families, it appears that parents and the market economy no longer had time for children, we went and built a whole system of education and education with legislation that everyone who went on this path envys and copied these things after us. We were the only one of all the countries in transition that we specifically spent 27 billion on first-tolar education in the second 36 billion in the third 167 billion. We were uniqum. So, as far as the National Assembly is concerned, and as far as the money we have set out for this is concerned, I am very pleased. And now I'm talking about these hereniadas that I've been listening to. I would say that by what our teachers have done, parents with children and even children in school, I am not dissatisfied as a teacher who has a license to teach. Look, if I were to play with this data here like I did with others, I can say that in nature for the eighth class of 1995 Slovenia was from 41 countries in the 7th place, if you share this with five countries, it would have earned an excellent rating, even among European countries it was fourth. And where did this black eye come from? Although it was slightly worse in 2003, Slovenia ranked 12th among 44 countries, which means that it would get a good grade somewhere, but again it was among the European countries in the 5th place. This means that the countries of the Far East, such as Singapore, China Taipei, Korea, Hong Kong, Japan, have come a long way behind us in their knowledge or learning plans and after what we teach Europeans. That is why I say that I am proud of those who have taught in schools, proud of those Members of the National Assembly who have helped this school, and proud of some of the ministers and governments who have introduced this system. That's my grade. As a mathematician, I can tell you that even in the knowledge of mathematics, there is no such thing as to be very, very ashamed of us. See, in 1995 - for the eighth grade I am speaking - Slovenia was 10th among 41 countries, the assessment was good, depending on the vat, of course, how we evaluate. Although in 2003 it was 21st, which was indeed a poor result, it was among the European countries in the 8th place, for which it would have given a good assessment somewhere. So we can all read these things any way we want. But whoever taught in school and who taught mathematics, which is one of the world's greatest religions, everywhere, we all believe it, no one doubts it, no one knows the point, but everyone says that the point is, no one saw one, they all say, it's one. Everyone believes that if the teacher says, one and one is that it's over, and he never doubted it. So, as a religion, it has basic concepts, it has axioms, and then it all develops on that basis. And to teach mathematics, you know, is art. We all need it as our tools and from mathematicians, from the ability of students, not from Members, it depends when I introduce algebraic structures, sooner or later, when I will introduce an analysis, sooner or later, when I will enter a probability account, sooner or later when I will introduce differential geometry - and so on and so on. We felt better to the Slovenes, at least in the mathematical branch, that at the beginning of the period of people, under the terms "teached to calculate". This is said to have taught them how certain procedures are carried out, and much later, when we thought that children had also matured psychologically, then we came to think mathematically and that from these thoughts they could then carry out certain procedures themselves. This makes it perfectly clear that our system is not the same, I can say, for example, if you are interested that we are lagging behind for about half a year on the proliferation of a number of natural numbers, that the fractions begin to be treated year after year for other countries and that the decimal numbers are even two years later from other countries. And that's why our results need to be worse because we don't have coordinated learning plans with others in lower classes. While, after all the research, this thing rises in the eighth grade and we don't teach students for fourth grade, fifth grade, sixth grade, but we teach them the final prize, it's for a good completion of the elementary school with a certain good grade. I mean, if you've read these things, this concept was pretty well set. If someone wants to evaluate these things, they need something other than just one survey, and based on this, they need to talk about what is going on with the students, on the basis of what is going on with the educational things, on the basis of this talk about everything else, and in fact this poll, in my profound belief, has been used for political purposes, just to deal with a certain minister, if you want, a certain policy. We've heard all of this here today. Mr Jerovšek, I have said five times that when I speak, do not interrupt me. And once you're chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee, you'll be decorated. [[...]] [[A voice in the background.]] Yeah, you're yelling at me. [[...]] I didn't do anything to you. I think this research for analysis at the National Assembly, for quality analysis, is not enough for me to come to certain conclusions. And in my opinion, it was good that someone suggested that they had fun on the board. But what we have here shows that the board's extremely bad work has left these things at a meeting of the National Assembly. Why? Look, without a comprehensive assessment, things like this can't be done. By making the conclusions that they are supposed to adopt, in the beginning, they are insolvent. Everyone understands these conclusions. We've done almost nothing about it. We haven't shown what's good, what's bad. But we basically committed the minister to some things starting to work. I also think there's a lot of public awareness about the burden on students. We all know that the burden of our students is at the bottom of the border if we take back real statistics, with regard to students in Europe. And it's those who used to say, when we were accepting subjects and learning plans, that it's necessary to relieve students, that that's right, today, I'm listening behind the speaker's stage, and that's not good. But we have always argued that the scope of this work needs to be increased. I really don't understand what logic is. But I certainly support this conversion. Listen, at the end of the day, because I'm a teacher, and don't insult me, it really hurts me to listen when some people read what others have written to them. And when I stood for 20 years with chalk for the board, and when we inherited so much teaching, I had the worst salary of all, when I was a teacher, people with high education. It was a picture of the past. And whoever could also went out for economic reasons, and it was a negative selection. As a Member, I've earned three times as much as I have, my fellow Members. With a high education, with the work I'm doing here, like there with the 500 kids I've had, excuse my expression, on my back. And now, on average, some teachers here give students a zero average. Thank God no one touched the parents. The whole political system, or even the legislation that others envy us, is irresponsible in my opinion, respectable colleagues and colleagues. I have so much honour here that I will say that I am proud of what the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia has done in these years in the field of education. Usually, I'm just comforting myself, I don't often stop by with that old Russian river that you all know, which says, "The wise guy likes to learn, but the fool likes to teach."
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u143	Thank you, Mr. Mohet. Dr. Slavko Gaber has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u144	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Today, we have heard many words about the alarming results. Some have said that they are shocking, others that they are the devastating results that our students and students have achieved within the international research of TIMSS. The facts speak slightly differently. These devastating or shocking results say that, for example, at the end of the eighth grade, at the international average of 467 points in mathematics, we scored 493 points, that at the international average of 474 points we reached 520 points. This is the final result of our school system. Of course, anyone can take from this data the part of the data, the part of the numbers that fit it most. However, the whole thing looks like this at the end of the day: our school, Mr Sok, has thus proved to be better than the average of those who have done these research here. This result, in my view, is neither shocking nor broken nor what else can be said on this topic. It is, ladies and gentlemen, also for me a result that is lower than what we want in Slovenia and lower than what we need to work for. If we enter this field in such a way that we will try to do everything we can to answer the question of why we do not achieve what we want, then we will enter better than if we claim, as some have said here, that we have been hiding our results so far because they have always been devastating. No, no, no. The result in 1999 was better than the result in 2003. The result in 1995 was better than the result in 2003, so there was no need to hide anything, so no one hid anything during these years. In all these years, we have been dealing with the question of how to move as close as possible to the top third of these countries, which we were really interested in in this global game. We never set ourselves the goal of being the best, we thought it was too much. But we wanted to get a little higher. Ladies and gentlemen, of course, there is a very big question for me why we have failed or failed. Some argue and may wave data that this certainly has nothing to do with the fact that our children were 13.8 decades old in this study, while the international average was 14.5. Interestingly, this time they don't mind that our younger ones were, in my opinion, significantly younger. While they were disturbed by the fact that we were older in the 1999 survey than the average, the difference was smaller, I warn you, than this time. I am not saying that there will be no mistake in finding the answer to the question why we are not as good as we would like to be, why we are only average, something better than average at the end of the day. However, I argue that it is not possible for all the reasons that show that there is a set of reasons that brings us to where it brings us, which simply moves us from the tables. You know, we can list countries that have less math education than we have. However, when we add up all the countries and add up to the fact that we were younger than the average in this study, we also have on average our children in mathematics, the older 116 hours of instruction, and the international average 123 hours of instruction, which is less than the average we have in education and younger - 144 hours, and the international average is 149 hours, we can say that this is not the key reason. However, if the reasons are collected and if this research and research by an international health organisation shows that we are learning at home only on average or a little less than everyone else is learning, then it is difficult to find arguments to say that we can expect significantly more. We need to rethink all of this. Nor is it possible to say, Comrade Sok, simply that it doesn't matter what kind of education our parents have. It's important. If you're competing with the Scandinavians, we're going to compete at the PIZI in 2006, we're going to compare with them. And the conclusion that for more than a year they have more schools on average than we do and every sociological research shows a high degree of connection between these two factors, then you also have to put it into a set of things that you need to think about. What do I mean? I would like to insist after this debate here today, which I think is quite solid for this environment, which is not an expert environment, by giving time to both the ministry and experts to think about what steps they will take to move up. I personally think that we need to move up in both the lower achievements, especially in mathematics and in the upper ones. I am pleased that, unlike the Committee's discussions here today, I am already listening to the recognition that something needs to be done in both areas. But I don't know if the recipe is that if you want the best to be even better and the worst to move towards the middle is to discuss whether or not we're going to stop the level learning. I say that because we are aware of these two problems, we have proposed a level education based on the proposals of experts in this country. Our idea was not to make everyone average. Those who are behind, let's help them get in the middle. For those who wish to go further, let us not keep them in the midst, to go as far as possible. I'm not a special expert on this. But I don't think it's such a stupid idea. I would leave it alone for a while to move on so that our teachers would really finish it. This system is new, here today some want to say that the concept of a nine-year-old has to be accounted for. Ladies and gentlemen, whoever wishes to do this should just do it, but this is too easy to do. 20% of the population in this sample was from just a nine-year-old. No one who could have walked the entire way through a nine-year-old was in that pattern. 80% of the net eight-year program was in this sample. So whoever judges a nine-year-old girl on this basis, I don't believe she's taking the serious structure of a school system. When we follow this issue, of course, and when we make an effort to get both of us further, and that this environment will be around where it is, then we will move faster than we have progressed in these years. For we, ladies and gentlemen, are among the countries that have progressed. There are countries that have responded with their results. We went up, but not as fast as we want. But I say very simple. I'm more or less certain that we've done ourselves harm. I personally let go of this system to those who claimed that we should not teach mathematics more difficult early. For today, I'm not going to list the names of the main protagonists of this story. But you can imagine them, of course I know them. If we have to, we'll just list them. They claimed that teachers demanded too much in schools too early. They argued that it was wrong to start primary school at six because we in Europe, unlike others, do not have children who could start early at school. That's why we also have, if you look at the tables, less years of schooling behind us than others. We simply have to allow ourselves to build a nine-year primary school in peace, so that, if we don't have to, for political reasons, we don't interfere with level learning, if we don't have to, don't do external checks, because we're obviously making an illusion of how much we know. I just don't see it any different. And let's not give anyone the illusion that with average work at school and at home, he'll have high average results. But we want the above average results, in fact we expect them from the system in full. He won't be able to give them if we don't change the climate. The year 2006, the next time we compare ourselves again, can produce better results only if we take a different approach to this. But there is a lot to be expected in schools, and children also have a lot to give, and at home it is necessary to do the same. All these other fights are irrelevant. This is too many people. If it is necessary for someone to be guilty, tell them that everyone can accept it. I think it would be better if we all tried to be responsible for this trend being reversed.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u145	Thank you, Mr. Gabra. Mr Mitja Slavinec has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u146	Thank you so much for saying that. The question we are dealing with today is certainly multilayered, so I will touch just a few things. The first one I would like to talk about is the overload we have heard about today. I'd like to ask myself first. We can see that students are really overburdened, but overburdened with school and extracurricular activities that have been a major complement to the school itself. Unfortunately, they are often associated with the unfulfilled ambitions of their parents, who are then enrolled in various circles and other activities, unfortunately in most cases connected, not with science and mathematics, which we are talking about today, but with sport, culture and other socio-humanist sciences. With this, of course, I mean nothing wrong with this, but I note that those activities do not contribute in any way to the result in the field of mathematics and science. The next question is what the school should give us. On the one hand, the school provides basics, a base, and on the other hand, it educates young people for their daily lives. School and extracurricular activities are certainly an important complement for everyday life, for what school students are learning. Speaking of elementary school, only the name says that the first priority should be given to basics, that is to say base. We can conclude from this, and I remember that this was the case when I went to school, that the school was the first, and as long as it lasted, we could devote it to other activities. We're fighting for a nice school, but let's be aware that school is not a game. And let's ask ourselves here how much of us he likes to work. And even more specifically, how many of us are happy to do any work. After all, there are areas that make us happy and happy, but it would be difficult for us to agree that there is someone among us who loves everything. And likewise, of course, it is difficult for students to choose to learn everything, and it is with great joy. And mathematics, physics, chemistry, biology, on purpose of these last three scientific disciplines, I specifically wrote that form a science - science is only not a scientific discipline - they are linked to a specific way of learning, because certain knowledge must be linked and understood in the home. And that's certainly one of the reasons why students don't like to learn it, because they're more or less used to one memory, which unfortunately is also too common in our school. That knowledge is not a value, we can also see how they fight for grades. Therefore, the value is not knowledge, but an assessment, the final result they achieve. As a result, teachers are often exposed to pressure from parents to raise their grades. In doing so, they are first pressured by their parents. And worst of all, they are often not supported by their principals. For this reason, it is a privilege for teachers who value knowledge by hand and professionally. We must be aware that every measurement is burdened with error. And also evaluation is measuring, measuring knowledge that is so much more difficult and so much more exposed to this error. Another factor that shows that the final goal is merely an assessment, but it is certainly a fact that the results of the survey show that the number of hours students invest in knowledge, i.e. in learning, falls with their learning success. This shows that they are learning as much as is strictly necessary to achieve the goal, that is, an appropriate and sufficiently high assessment. Unfortunately, in this way it is difficult to motivate them to choose their own area, which will later be professionally occupied, and already in primary school, and even more so in high school, to cultivate and invest their ambitions in it. At the time of study, however, it is very important how this time is used. It is therefore necessary to teach students not only working habits, but also how to learn, especially mathematics and science [[End warning sign]] 'Cause the way I study here is very specific, as I've pointed out before. Is the curriculum adapted to the method of measurement? Not just by measuring that we will have better results here, but by all means consider how much this curriculum is inter-subjectally coordinated and how far it leads to that final goal, as much knowledge as possible. Let me finish. [[End warning sign]] With the thought of any teaching involved, it is still the basic rule that learning is a practice of repetition. And just as it is necessary to teach recalculation in the basic sense, so must any other teaching. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u147	Mr. Slavinac, please finish.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u148	I conclude the sentence - any other learning must be cultivated in terms of repetition. And more than hours will be spent, the better the results will be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u149	Thank you, Mr. Slavinz. Mr Sok made contact with the replica to Mr Gabra's discussion, but I did not notice it earlier. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Because my colleague Gaber named me twice. So, first of all, I'd like to say, colleague gaber, because this isn't some personal assault on you. And what we're discussing, and this research isn't some private matter of yours, but it's about the whole country. I pointed out that in the past, as well as some others, we invested a lot in the walls, but we did not invest enough in teachers. This is what we find today and, of course, the result is here. You're saying it'll show up at the end of the day. It turned out to be this research, however we interpret it. And it wouldn't make sense for us to keep blinding each other. I remembered an quotation from the Scriptures when Christ healed a blind man, and then the Pharisees, who did not believe, asked him if we were blind. And he said that if we were blind, we would have no sin, because you say, we see, your sin remains. Thus, the matter needs to be looked at in the foundation, at the bottom, to realize this and then to try on the basis of this to lead to some conclusions that will lead to a more favourable outcome for the next study. But who can say that the next one, if we insist on doing so, will not be worse. What are we gonna say then? I said it myself, and someone else, when the same research showed a similar situation for the American situation, the American President responded very intensively and said, "Let's change the learning systems, do everything we can to make the next study better." It is not that we insist on this, and I do not agree that nothing needs to be changed.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u151	Thank you, Mr. Sok. Mrs. Majda Potter has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u152	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I would like to say a few more thoughts about addressing the results of the international analysis of mathematics and science. First of all, I would like to point out that I am actually surprised by the generalisation of the results on knowledge of only two subjects in the entire Slovenian elementary school. We measure what was meant to be measured in this case, it is mathematics and science. However, there are many other subjects in the Slovenian school, about which knowledge can also be discussed and how high on the scale we place them. I set them up very high myself because I advocate the national concept of primary school. Here, however, it has often been heard that a specific adjustment to the European primary school model would be needed to make it easier for our students to compare themselves with European schools. This will be true, but now I wonder if we are comparing ourselves with all the other schools and school systems that are more successful than our own. I asked myself several times how to explain to myself the surprise that students in science in Asian countries are more successful than our students. I do not consider myself to be any special acquaintance with the curriculums of mathematics and science curricula, but I know that teachers from Japan have come to Maribor to be interested in how we can create less stressful circumstances for students in primary school than they do in Japan, where competition among students is extremely high, not to mention the other negative consequences of that school system. That's where they're dealing with the reverse problem like we do. If we have a feminization of the school profession or teaching profession, there is masculination. I do not know enough about all other school systems, so that only from the table examination and placement of Slovenian schoolchildren could I just judge what is and what is not good and why I should wonder what is and why not. The second thing I would like to say is that, in fact, the evidence of this and the concern about the low result, the alleged low results of Slovenian schoolchildren, came from the same logos, so to speak, as the calls came when a nine-year-old girl was introduced, that the Slovenian school must be kind, that our students are overloaded, that there are not enough educational subjects with us. But look, at the same results of the research, the Germans were asking themselves differently, wondering what they had to do to make their students more successful. They didn't agree to these overload issues, and I don't know what else. They didn't give their teachers a ride that easily either. They asked whether the quality of learning at the implementation level could also be a reason for the poorer performance, not just the learning plan as it has now been heard. The profession is not unanimous on the same issues. The profession gives different answers to the same questions, so when we call the professional to account, it is necessary to say which part of the profession we are thinking about because one part of the profession was talking about a nice school. Now he's talking about a relaxed school. And I don't know the first term, not the second term at school and Timss' research to help. What should be said, whether it should be reiterated, is that the public publication of the results of the Timss research was a flaw from heaven for those who are against the nine-year-old. How am I supposed to justify this? I have previously cited the opinion of the Secretary of State and also the Minister of Education that these results are a cold shower for the renovation of education. These results are not to be performed by a renewed nine-year-old as a whole. They have to do, was previously reported, with 80% of the age of eight and only 20% of the survey included in the nine-year-old. And you can't just generalize that on a whole nine-year-old. But those who read the results didn't want to see that fact. Now the secretary of state who isn't, and the minister hasn't been here all along, I can't say to my face that I think it was public manipulation. Because she gave the public a signal of how these results should be viewed. The results of Timsa, according to her, and in the opinion of the minister, mean a nine-year-old debacle. That's data manipulation. This is the most decisive way to resist, although after a press conference or a press conference, it was possible to promise a sound consideration of things. And now for conclusions that are offered to help us or to receive. I'm not going to support these two conclusions. For a simple reason, it is not because the first conclusion of such a nature is that it speaks, as it were said, of the catastrophic state of the Slovenian school. And I don't agree to such a disastrous situation in Slovenian school. I think the verdict is too general, too fast, and the Slovenian school is criminal. The second conclusion, however, is that it points to what the ministry itself should do by the nature of its work, and that, last but not least, the minister has promised to do. He announced that the education institution would do additional research to get the teaching institute to do, but otherwise I heard at that committee debate that the minister had burned the director of the teaching institute, which I can explain how it would proceed. It is true that, I stress, there are no final results. We are now discussing these things as if we have already received the final results. We are all now talking more or less volunteerally about very serious things and throwing into the same basket primary school, high school and higher school. And then I hear that we're born with 3,000 above-average talent a year, and the school system is going to be able to wipe out by the end of the year. Then how? How, then, can we comment on or base on the excellent achievements of the above-average good contestants in a wide variety of natural science contests? Then how to comment on the success of our people who are involved in the university system, if there are simply no intermediates, because we have successfully suppressed them in the school system. And that's data manipulation, and of course I'm resisting it. Let me conclude, I believe that the former authorities in the school ministry must be said and admitted to having introduced Tims' research because it was first carried out in 1995. It is said that no one is afraid to compare our children's knowledge with others in Europe and in the world. How some of the results have ever been interpreted, however, is another thing. When comparing classification to a city, at least the number in the survey of the schools covered should be talked about, above all, what the research measures, and these are trends in knowledge. From a few debaters today it was possible to hear that the trend in mathematics is slightly rising, not as much as you would like, but rising. This, as has been said, could not be understood from most of the debates, so I am convinced that this consideration was prepared for a special purpose both on the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport and now at the National Assembly. Or this will produce good results, but I am afraid not, given how some of the proposed measures to amend school legislation are being prepared when they are different today, tomorrow and yesterday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u153	Thank you, Mrs. Patrati. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u154	Thank you very much for your word. After all these discussions, there is also a need to say a word on the Committee's work and conclusions. In the first decision, the Committee noted that it had become aware and that it assessed that it was said that it had not taken any 100% of the definitive judgments on the state of the results of the TIMSS, but had only assessed them and informed them. It is precisely because the Committee considers that it is not competent enough to do so that the Ministry of Education and Sport or the Government of RS prepares a comparative analysis of the school system and the social climate with the most internationally successful school systems and that certain things are also identified. I think that this decision is perfectly normal, at least as regards the content and material that the Committee has considered. It is obviously or certainly knowledge that is in the Slovenian national interest. Good knowledge is so much more desirable and I do not think it is most appropriate that we have not been able to reach consensus on the results of the international knowledge research on the committee, but that this decision, which imposed the preparation of the analysis on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, was adopted by voting. I think that this is also a poor journey to all future discussions, and also to this analysis that the Ministry of Education is expected to prepare. I must say that we are already putting forward some obstacles, that this analysis will be competent and that this analysis will be good. As regards the results themselves, or the international averages themselves, they should also be objective here, because many countries, one third of the countries covered by the analysis, are probably from the third world. The analysis covers both Botswana, Ghana, South Africa, and the Philippines, which achieve significantly lower results than average. I think that Slovenia values and positions itself among the developed countries. It wants to be on a European or European average, and in this way Slovenia should also approach the evaluation of these results, and even on this average Slovenia should also be set up. As far as the debate on the results of the TIMSS is concerned, I believe that there has been no debate so far, not in 1995, not in 1999, but in 1999, we will now have a first serious debate in a year after the government has prepared the report. What we're listening to today is interpretations. However, I must point out to this National Assembly that once there was a desire for the results of TIMSS to be addressed at a meeting of the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport. This was to happen on 14 January 1999, at the time, at the wish of the SKD member Helena Hren Vencelj, but for the same reasons as we have heard today, this was said because of insufficient quality and incomplete analysis of the material, this point was withdrawn from the agenda and has never been considered. I believe it is appropriate, however, that it also be not good to open the debate with the subjects of our interest. I must say that as far as the results of the TIMSS analysis themselves are concerned, we can say that these results are definitive. However, the analysis is not definitive because we have commissioned the Ministry to prepare it within one year. What worries me most in this debate and even in the debate on the Committee is that, although this has not been explicitly put anywhere, this debate has led as a political conflict and not as a substantive debate. Here I do not think that it was mentioned once, by those who led the meeting, nor in the debate that anyone called anyone to personal responsibility. We wanted to focus the entire debate on correcting the system in order to repair and execute, I would say, such and such adjustments, including that normative work that we say should be very good to make our system effective. The fact is that Slovenia is at the top of those countries in Europe that invest the largest share of GDP in education. I mean, we're pretty much above average. And I think even among the first two, three countries. However, the results and outputs measured by the quality of the knowledge of students, including secondary and university students, are far behind these large contributions. Other countries in Europe also pay a lot of attention to quality school space. That's no specialty. Perhaps even significantly more than we do, but there is no real answer to why we achieve relatively worse results than a number of countries. In some cases even lower than Serbia. That's what it says in here, too. I would also like to say that there is no need to particularly contradict these results. Our key efforts, as many of the speakers have already said, should be focused on ensuring that as many of our children as possible reach the highest level of knowledge. And that in mathematics and also in science. I believe that our children would probably be the best in history in geography and in other matters, but in this knowledge, which is the basis of development, which is the basis of science-based technology, we are lagging behind. And here I see the key problem that we will also have relatively large problems here in this mandate, in order to establish an appropriate trend and turn the results upward. The fact is that in the last period, between the last two measurements, trends have turned down. And there's a dot collection going down somewhere. I think it is extremely problematic for Slovenia to achieve, for example, in mathematics in the last or those last measurable classes in primary school about three times lower results than Slovaks in that best category. And we look at them in such an underestimating way. I don't think that's right. Practically the whole of Eastern Europe achieves better results than Slovenia, and virtually in all matters, as regards standard, social climate, social development, we are putting a significant emphasis on it. But the results of the school system are significantly better there. And if not the other, at least we should be asking ourselves whether or not to copy the Eastern systems, because we're obviously coming out of that circle. We are very well connected to that circle, but the results are extremely poor. I think it would be appropriate for these conclusions to be supported and, on the basis of the data prepared by the Ministry of Education and Sport, also adopted by the Government, to hold a truly high-quality debate. We can hope that certain minor legislative corrections, as the Minister has said, will help us put the system in place in a way that will produce better results. But there's one more thing I have to say. I think the debate that former Minister Gaber had here is very high-quality. I think a lot of things from this debate can be used, very much. And I would hope that, even if he remained a minister, he would probably also use and implement these things in practice, not only in the legislative part, but also in practice, it is said in the direct learning process itself, didactics and other things. I hope that from the debate that the Minister had had, there should be no particular difficulty in taking an analysis, as well as in taking measures that would have led to this in the next medium to four years, to the next TIMSS. We just have to create the conditions for this to happen. Personally, I also believe that the nine-year-old issue required by this country is that we have to start with introduction and education early enough. But that's not enough. You have to take things in quality. When introducing quality into the school system, we should not be late. Any delay will cost us dearly, the developmental delay will increase, our pace will fall, and recovery in such cases will only be significantly more expensive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u155	Thank you, Mr. Tank. I'm asking Secretary of State Dr. Magdalena Svertz, does she want a word as the last of the discussers? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u156	For a short period of time, I also presented in my introduction the measures already being prepared by the Ministry of Education for professional institutions. But I thank you for your discussion, which was very interesting, and I think it is also very necessary for us to talk publicly about what is good in our education, that we believe in our education, but at the same time we do not close our eyes to those problems that appear. The system, as we've heard, is new, it's complementary, it's some kind of living system, and it's right that the things we find out that they're not good, we change. The evaluation, the reflection of the school system is blood, is that engine that drives things forward in every modern school system. I believe we will not close our eyes, and where we will see bad things, we will also change them, of course with the help of professional solutions. I also believe that we have enough institutions and people in Slovenia that can provide good solutions for our school system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u157	Thank you, Secretary of State. Since we have a good 20 minutes of time left, I ask if there is anyone else who wishes to discuss it under Rule 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. I will read the applications: Mr Jerovšek, Kokalj, Koren, Štebe, Rugelj, Germič, Moge, Gaber, Slavinac Yes, I apologize. Everyone has two minutes. Mr. Jerovšek, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Your Honor! We have heard a lot about the results of the international study of trends in mathematics and science today. Above all, I was surprised to learn that several speakers from this side and there have actually seen an external enemy in this publication, as if he were now the fruit of some kind of conspiracy in this country. I must say that this is not the case, and that we must take seriously this study, which is internationally comparable, which shows that our country's knowledge trends have deteriorated since the previous survey. This must concern us, for this kind of knowledge is the basis for development. The conclusions of the Education Committee correctly state that the threat is the basis for the effective development of Slovenia. We all have to worry about that. At the same time, this study shows a number of other things. In recent years, we have listened to praises about the good conduct of education, how everything is ideal in this school, how the best staff are present, how the best selection is, etc. Look, today we see that there's obviously been a lot of wrong things going on, that this model - LDS was the basic creator - was in many ways wrong. The success of this system has been a dogma in recent years. All that has been said against this, critical thoughts have been heresy, and such experts have been removed from all the cultural worlds of this world. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u159	Mr. Jerovšek!
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u160	If I just finish. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u161	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u162	Of course, I must say, because I have no more time, in a way symbolically possible, that the praise of this former authority has finally been singing about the impeccability of this system, Mrs Potrate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u163	Thank you, Mr. Jerovska. Mr. Germich has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u164	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Of course, we heard a lot about this discussion today. I think it is very important to note here that in the discussion it was also important to note the fact that the fact-finding has also been observed, which indicated that some of the debaters who have discussed it, in my view, have not read the entire analysis report themselves. Of course, I would like to say that words really hurt, given that I was a teacher myself, the principal when we talk about teachers being educated and setting a pattern for points only and that the system itself is so oriented through such patterns. I must say that planning, completing teachers is extremely difficult and we are planning together for the headmaster, teachers and, of course, it is confirmed in the framework of the annual work plan at the highest school body, that is the world of the school. That is why it seems so easy to communicate from this highest assembly a very bad message to Slovenian society, given the motive and the ambitions and the wishes of Slovenian society. We need to be aware that today if we can say that this school system kills a third, in high school a second third, and at university a third of our upper secondary students, without any analysis being able to back up this, I find here very irresponsible and bad messages that I do not want to have the consequences of having young people decide on education in teaching professions. Of course, I would like to see the results that in the trends show that we have a rise, but of course we are not satisfied with this rise, show even better in the future, and I am sure that we will be able to do it together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u165	Thank you, Mr. Germich. Mr. Koren has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u166	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues, hello! I will tell you some thoughts that have become numb to me in this debate, and as the father of three girls and eight years of age, a member of the primary - school parenting council of three years, I have come to know certain things or my thoughts. The first thing I'd like to say is, I don't think anyone has pointed it out today about the success of mathematics at this lower level. We in the parents ’ world discussed the problem of reading students each year. All teachers who taught other subjects stressed that learning is a problem mainly because children are under-burdened and therefore unable to understand and understand the tasks that occur in other subjects. I must say this, indeed, in recent years there has been a problem of poor reading and that this is the cause of bad work in other subjects. The other thing I would like to point out is, before that talk, the number of hours that we have less lessons than that. I might even say a word about the holidays we have, especially these autumn holidays. There was a lot of talk from teachers, professors about how children can barely get used to it, they come into one of the lessons, and it's been a week since the lesson is gone, and then we need another 14 days to come to one of the stages of this schooling. Maybe that's where we should think about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u167	Thank you very much, Mr. Root. Mr. Moge has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u168	Thank you very much, President. I just want to warn you about two more things. I think that such analyses are either for themselves or they have a specific purpose. Even the school policy is now geared towards achieving solid results for our students, I do not think it is the wisest. We've had all these things a lot of times, if you remember, even in the socialist, federal Republic of Yugoslavia, it was the idea to have common cores for culture, etc., that didn't happen. Now, if we are to go towards this goal of being completely equivalent to those, we need to put forward our curricula for these curriculums that they have in Europe, that is to say, some globalisation of the entire school system. But I think if, in addition to the data we mentioned here today, we see that in 1991 we had the majority of people with primary school, that was the average, when Germany had over 30% of high education, we had 39% of those with high education. And what you can do compared to this country that had a stable system, currency, legislation, while we were looking for this path. I think these things also affect the results we have achieved. The second thing I was going to say here is that I, Slavko Gaber, personally as an MP, thank you for all you've done in the field of education, but with your name on it, and it's not fair, it's playing in public. If you look at what happened in Celje, if you look at when he got the president of the state for your work, not just in this area, but to honor you, there was nothing to it. Dear colleagues and colleagues, if we do not appreciate ourselves, it will remain as it has been so far as you go as a Member to an environment, and then everyone there despises you, that is, your own price and behavior and respect must be [[...]] [[Warning signal.]] [[... ...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] create yourself. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u169	Thank you, Mr. Mohet. Mr. Kokalj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u170	Thank you very much. First two minutes after 15 years of teaching, after 8 years of mayoral education and after 14 years [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] When I feel like someone's listening to me about the problem of my children's education system and the children I've been responsible for in one way or another. [[...]] I think the debate went this way, that I felt like I was in class when I was listening to that page and listening to that page. However, based on this analysis we have received on the table, it is simple to note that the knowledge of the eight-year-olds is better than that of the nine-year-olds, that the grades for the same knowledge for the nine-year-olds are higher than for the same knowledge for the eight-year-olds. These two parameters indicate that a nine-year-old is a completely flawed project. The project was forcefully implemented, we all know, forced by parents, past the founders, I was alone in both roles when I tried to convince the minister of that time to talk about establishing a dialogue, even bribery of schools, to make extraordinary funding to join the nine-year-old project, as it were, domestically, bribery of the municipalities to overthrow the project. This project must be dismantled as soon as possible. Where did the financial support go? If we look at the input, there is no result, but the inputs are the spaces of those schools that have been politically selected to stimulate teachers to work outside the classroom. It is not, therefore, a promotion of quality learning and an input into the centres of educational activities which additionally entail additional costs both for the country and for the parents. Unfortunately, I have a little more written down and I wish someone else from the Ministry would come by so I could say that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u171	Thank you, Mr. Bones. Mr. Gaber has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u172	Mr. President. I understand that some believe that it is necessary to dismantle a nine-year primary school. You're probably not surprised that I didn't feel that way. I think that a large, large majority of citizens and citizens do not have that opinion. I had previously felt in what my colleague Tanka was saying, in fact, an offer of a hand for us to work together to build up where we need to. If anyone believes we're going to be dismantled and dismantled, then they're wrong. I myself propose that we take over the fact that we have invested a lot in education in Slovenia in recent years as a positive fact, not as a negative one. There have been a lot of mayors in Slovenia who have done enough for this, and this Parliament has done a lot because together we had the need to ensure good conditions everywhere in Slovenia. I hope someone doesn't think it was wrong. I would say, however, that it seems to me that it is also necessary to deal with systemic changes first. The most important systemic change in the future is the deregulation of the curicular structure. School curriculum must finally be brought to these schools. Of course, we also need to move forward. It is probably necessary to release the funding of this school, continue to invest in teachers and so on and consider also whether we might not change anything, but let the profession deal in the field of mathematics. This is the direction that I would like us to go forward together and try to achieve better than this average that we have with these two this year. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] the subjects were shown in an international survey, i.e. last year. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u173	Thank you, Mr. Gabra. Mr Rugelj has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u174	Thank you, Mr. President. A good greeting to all Members of Parliament and Members. If I agree with today's debate, I conclude that this is a situation in which our past rule is reflected in education, education and knowledge. If I give just to compare the situation in the economy or the situation in the economy, in the public sector. Look, all schools were rich from the public sector, from the economy, that's the nature direction, and very, very little. If I gave instructions to my children today, I would tell them if you wanted to make bad money, so work in the economy and on top of losing your job, then study mathematics and physics. If you want to make good money, get a good job in the public sector, then decide on social sciences. We all know that, for example, the number of students has tripled in the last ten years at the Faculty of Philosophy in Ljubljana. It's not a negligible thing, so I'm going to support the board's conclusions, because it's about time we started to realize that we're at least a little bit screwed up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u175	Thank you, Mr. Ruggle. Mr. Slavinec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u176	Thank you so much for saying that. I was running out of time before, so I came by again, and in the end maybe I would just touch the ones that are the most important in the education system, these are the teachers. I had already commended them, and I would now touch on their authority, which must certainly be based on knowledge, professional competence, attitude towards students and similar virtues and qualities. In order for teachers to have the authority they need and deserve, we can all contribute. First of all, I would like to point out that less reference should be made to the rights that are supposed to be introduced in school and to be more aware of the obligations that students and everyone else have in education. This means that it is necessary to trust teachers to do what they do in school with a good purpose to pass on as much knowledge as possible in order to train the best of students, students. Why do I feel that way? Because I have worked for a very long time to educate teachers, and I can guarantee you that all or a large majority of them choose this profession with some great joy, with one barbecue. And as we learned that someone has to be born as a teacher, it's hard to raise him, so of course all the virtues that I've counted before, those who have teachers and based on them can be trusted that if they have free hands, if we trust them, they will have more opportunities, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] creativity in the introduction of the teaching itself, that it will be so much better and results in all areas that are very important, so much better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u177	Thank you, Mr. Slavinz. One last Mr. Stabe, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u178	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Maybe just two highlights. I believe that only factual or important knowledge is not what makes the difference between individual learning systems or then the success of the students, and later of the adult people, but is the essence and I think that this is lacking in our society, is the real education for values. Values in young people and later in the elderly and in society are at the heart of all knowledge and, I would say, the dynamics needed to talk about useful knowledge, which then serves society, the economy and every individual. In recent times, we have very much forgotten this element, the real education for values. We could say that Christian values are the real foundation, not some self-government and socialist values with which we were raised. Ignoring the teaching profession and also later the profession of those who create is another such problem, but also, of course, permissive education. My experience, when I was teaching in high school for five months, was that the curriculum was completely flawed according to the purpose that it was, to teach the computer science of nurses. I couldn't run a program like that myself. And these are all those aspects that somehow caused us to achieve such success. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u179	Thank you, Mr. Stebeth. I hereby adjourn the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed by a vote at 6.25 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u180	We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Before we go to the vote, please ask Members and Members to check the functioning of the voting apparatus, and the yellow light must be on the right side of the device. In this case, a vote may be taken. And another warning about voting alone. As always, I will read first the decision on which we will vote. Then wait a few moments, and for some time it is given to Members so they can raise their hand. They shall raise their hand when they wish to explain their voice when they notice that their voting device is not working or if they have a procedural proposal. In three cases, however, a procedural proposal may be proposed, where a vote or decision is to be postponed, when the parliamentary group wishes to suspend the meeting up to 45 minutes before the vote to consult or when it wishes to announce an obstruction of voting. Those moments after quoting the conclusion are available to raise your hand. Therefore, I will not take into account the late vote at the time of the vote when the vote is under way. We will not interrupt the vote on our own, because that is not necessary. If anyone notices that the device did not work during the vote, despite the yellow light burning on the right side of the card, the expert service will only check the device after the vote. In the event that the voting apparatus did not work, despite the fact that the card was correctly filed, the vote will be repeated. Not in all other cases. We therefore move on to the end of agenda 1 - questions of Members and Members In accordance with the proposal of Ambassador Barbara Žgajner Tavš, the assembly will decide on the next proposal for a decision. At the next regular meeting, the National Assembly will hold a discussion on the response of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Janez Janša, to the question of Barbara Žgajner Tavš, on the Government's guidelines for the introduction of new historical ideologies. Mrs. Tavsh, please. You have the floor to explain your voice, as I understand it.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u181	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group, of course, I would like to make an explanation for the proposal I made yesterday, i.e. the proposal for an extended debate on the response of the Prime Minister to the question of the mission. In fact, I've got an inkling of the impatient ideological discourse that brings things back to the time we all thought was over. I'll say, yes, they've been through, at least we thought so, apparently only to the new government, which has reopened this area. Moreover, we estimate that it is a well-touched tactic of changing history with the inspiration of ideological concepts. Such were the Prime Minister's answers to my clear questions yesterday. To get an answer B to question A, I will say, an interesting strategy, which on the one hand says a lot, and on the other hand very little or nothing substantive to the specific questions raised. The government has passed three war laws after a reduced procedure. Let me say that these are also contested laws on the financial side in view of the reduced procedure. Another bottleneck to be mentioned follows European standards or European Union standards, while the War Cemetery Act makes it clear that this regime cannot be compared with any other European country. Therefore, honourable Members, at this time I appeal to you to support the enlarged debate. Also because there will be no other opportunity to debate. The laws, as I have already said, are, as you probably know, proposed by a reduced procedure, which also means that the debate is not possible under the rules of procedure. And since this is about reopening with a consensus already closed and because it is an ignorant attitude towards our common history on the work of NOB, I reiterate in this context the 60th anniversary of victory over nazifascism, which apparently did not reach the Prime Minister yesterday, we simply cannot agree quietly in, I will say, unknown what. Let them therefore have their opportunity, or their place, to promote change, so that perhaps those who do not understand the changes, why such changes should be introduced, will be more clear to us. So what are we afraid of in the debate? I hope that all of you, including members of the government coalition, the SDS, New Slovenia, the SLS and, last but not least, the DeSUS Members will give each other the opportunity to discuss this issue before we start adopting laws after a reduced procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u182	Thank you, Mrs. Tavsh. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 68 Members and Members present, with 26 votes against 41. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 41.]] I'm asking if the voting device didn't work. At the request of the LDS and the United List, we do not call for explanations of vote. Mr. Lakhovnik, do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u183	Dear Mr. President! I think I have clearly raised my hand to explain my vote on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia. Please take this into account, give me this option and repeat the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u184	Mr. Lakhovnik, when I pressed it, no one raised his hand.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u185	Mr President, please [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u186	We're crossing please. [[...]] We continue with the end of the 3rd item of the agenda, with the consideration of the proposal for a decision on agreement on the annual development plan and the renewal of motorways for 2005. We are moving on to a decision on the next proposal for a decision. Once again, I will read the conclusion, then I will wait a moment, and anyone who raises his hand will be recorded. The decision is as follows: The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia agrees on the annual road development and renewal plan for 2005 adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia at its meeting on 24 February 2005. Mr. Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u187	Mr President, on behalf of the LDS Group, we request a 15-minute recess before the continued participation of the LDS Club of Members, due to your holding of the meeting at the previous item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u188	We'll continue the session at 1850 hours.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u189	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, we continue on the 3rd item of the agenda. I ask the representatives of the LDS Group if they want to explain their conclusions? Here you go, Mr. Pavliha.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u190	Thank you, Mr. President. This time, I speak on behalf of both the LDS Group of Members and the Vice-President of the National Assembly. We cannot and will not agree with your way of interpreting the Rules of Procedure and, of course, the misuse of this Rules of Procedure. In order to refresh the memory, I would read once again Article 72, where it was clearly written and which was also undoubtedly supported and reconfirmed by the Business Commission. He says that before the final vote, before the final vote, a representative of the parliamentary group can press the key and then the line starts running so that I can be more graphic, the proposal for a decision can explain the vote of the parliamentary group and its speech can take up to three minutes and then other Members can have this right, but their speeches can take up to two minutes. If I may capitulate the event, let me say that Ambassador Barbara Žgajner Tavševa correctly explained her voice. Then you thanked her, and I quote, "Thank you, Mrs. Tavš, we are voting, the vote is running." In the meantime, you did not look at the Chamber for a second when quite a few Members raised their hand to explain their vote, in accordance with the second paragraph of that Article. Thus, the five Members of our Group have been misled and have not voted at all. Why didn't they vote? Because they were not looking at the monitor, they were looking at Members who wanted to explain their voice. Therefore, Mr President, our Group expects you to repeat this vote. Of course, we expect that most likely our wishes will not be satisfied and that we will show our cooperativeness, nor will we obstruct the meeting. But we want to say clearly and loudly once again that I do not approve of such a meeting. And more. When you asked if the voting device was not working, you also said: "We do not ask the LDS and the United List to explain the vote at the request of the LDS members." We have no idea on the basis of any decision on the basis of which argument you have made this sentence. Thank you very much, Mr. President. Please repeat the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u191	We will not repeat the vote. But I have to say this. As far as raising your hand is concerned, I would certainly give the floor to anyone who, after concluding Mrs Tavševa's speech, wanted to explain his voice. I was looking directly at these first and second types of conflicts on my right and after not seeing any hands raised, I went with my eyes and pressed the button and said that the vote was running. If at that point someone raised their hand when I looked at the board, where to press it, I don't know. No one can hold a meeting to look at completely different things at the same time. If someone raised their hand and I didn't see it, I'm sorry. But please raise your hand in the future when I look at you and wait. Either I wasn't waiting or I was leaving right away, but it's possible to check on the video. We therefore proceed with the 3rd item of the agenda. Mr. Squeakle, there's no debate. I will read again the decision on which we will vote: The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia agrees to the 2005 annual road development and renewal plan adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia at its meeting on 24 February 2005. Mr. Squeakle, please. Explanation or procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u192	Mr President, you looked at me and I raised my hand so that I could explain my voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u193	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u194	Today we had a long discussion about this year's highway construction programme, and we did not get all the answers. We regret that this programme is likely to have to be reconsidered. However, because of the need to continue building motorways through the programme, as presented, even if we will discuss this once again, I will support this programme. However, I regret, Mr President, that you are introducing new rules in every session of the game, but we will also get used to it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-04-19-SDZ4-Redna-05.ana.u195	Thank you, Mr. Squeakle. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 75 Members and Members present, 73 votes against none. [[The vote was 73.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. We continue with the end of the 4th item of the agenda - the consideration of the international study of trends in the knowledge of mathematics and science TIMSS 2003, with a proposal for a decision. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The Government of the Republic of Slovenia should report to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on the implementation of primary school legislation in the light of the results of the international study of trends in mathematics and nature knowledge Tims 2003. The report is intended to provide a comparative analysis of the Slovenian school system and the social climate with the most internationally successful school systems to identify the causes of permanent failures in comparable knowledge and to present measures taken by the government to improve the situation in this area and to help reduce the knowledge deficit. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia should draw up a report with a comparative analysis and a proposal for measures within one year. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 77 Members present and 48 votes in favour against 22. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 22.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I am adjourning the 5th session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m.
