ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the continuation of the 11th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and cannot attend today's meeting of the following Members: Bogdan Barovic, Ferry Horvat, Mag. Vasja Klavora, Dr. Marko Pavliha, Miro Friday, Marjetka Uhan, Milenko Ziherl. We're moving to 2. Period of the agenda - This is to the contrary the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Road Safety. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to a government representative to further explain the bill. Mr. Minister of the Interior, Mr. Dragutin Mate, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members. I would like to provide a brief additional explanation to the proposal for a road safety law. Given that the Republic of Slovenia holds a short OSCE summit, it is said that the Ministers for Foreign Affairs of the OSCE countries have accepted the initiative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and have proposed an amendment to Article 194 of the Law, so that for the vehicles we will hire for the purpose of this OSCE summit, we can use Slovenian tables and, of course, Slovenian transport permits. It is a rental of vehicles that are already registered and have all the necessary documents to register in one of the Member States of the European Union. By adopting this article, we will have the legal basis for using this and similar future events or meetings that will be held in Slovenia next year, NATO Summit and next year and 2008 Presidency in order to use Slovenian tables, which of course contributes to the recognition of the Republic of Slovenia on an international scale. We further propose to amend the contents of the license plates. We propose to include in the table a prescribed Eurolog, which we need to change slightly because the current one does not meet European standards. On the table, they would introduce registration areas and the intended area for coat of arms, and of course a combination of numbers and letters. Such registration will be possible in the future as from 1.1. in the entire area of the Republic of Slovenia, but registration marks will be used where registration will be made. We further propose to amend Article 234 of the Law, which is proposed at the initiative of the Ministry of Justice. In implementing certain parts of the CVCP, we have found that the law is ineffective in the enforcement of a foreign sanction, the prohibition of driving motor vehicles to holders of foreign driving licences. This year, they noticed that a number of foreign drivers were unable to pass a foreign sanction and prohibit further driving in the Republic of Slovenia. I must warn you, this is only a matter of very serious violations, of traffic accidents with fatalities. We propose that, by means of a proposal written down, we allow the police to withdraw this driver's license and allow this sanction to be carried out. At the same time, the solution foresees such a solution that we will not need on-call services in all 58 administrative units and, of course, we will not cause costs. If we put on duty in administrative units, this would cost the country more than 80 million dollars in one year. I would like to touch on another area, the topics discussed on the Committee, namely the proposal to amend the identification mark on the table from the SLO to the SI. In doing so, I would like to point out that the applicant does not support an SI-label solution for the following reasons. First, in 1992 the Republic of Slovenia acceded to the Vienna Convention on Road Traffic, where it reserved this sign and also registered it with the United Nations, all the necessary acts were adopted, so that at the moment the SLO sign is registered with the United Nations and should start the whole process in order to change this matter. At the same time, I would like to point out that the information available to the Ministry of the Interior has not yet been changed by any member of the United Nations on the registration plates. Next. We should change the number of regulations, not only of Slovenia, but also of Europe. Above all, I must point out that we should change the driving licence form as a single EU form, which is where the SLO code is reserved. All vehicle registration documents should be amended, including all documents for the international transport of goods and licences. Thus, even through the long-standing process of amending the Treaty on the accession of the Republic of Slovenia to the EU, all members should agree to agree on this change and thus cause great costs. In fact, it would be necessary, in a short transitional period, to replace all driving licences, all traffic licences and, of course, all plates already marked by the SLO, which would result in very high costs for citizens, so we propose not to introduce this code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as the parent working body. I ask the chairman of the committee, Mrs Mojco Kucler Dolinar, to present the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u4	Thank you very much, President. Nice greetings to the Minister, colleagues and fellow Members. At its 13th regular session, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice considered the proposal of the law as a working body. The amendment was tabled by Member Miran Potrč to Article 2, Mr Matjaž Han to Article 2 and Mr Davorin Terčon to Articles 2 and 6. In the introduction of the draft law, the proposer outlined the basic objectives and purpose of the bill. In presenting the opinion of their services, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service stressed that the applicant had already taken into account some of the comments contained in the written opinion in the preparation of the proposal for amendments to the Committee and that she had raised only some of the proposals concerning Article 2 and 4 of the draft law below. In the context of its comments to Article 2, it suggested that it might be necessary to re-examine before the registration zones were introduced, whether, in the light of the current concept of the law leaving local jurisdiction in the registration of motor vehicles, this would make sense. However, in the context of its comments to Article 4, it made a comment on the proposed regime introducing a measure of temporary withdrawal of the driver's licence allowing for the enforcement of the court's judgment to be ensured and thus a more effective procedure against holders of foreign driving licences, as well as against all others who would have avoided infringements of the court's judgment by leaving abroad. In the discussion, the members and members of the Committee made the most time available to the provisions of the draft laws amending the contents of the registration plates by including the registration marks where the vehicle was registered and the coat of arms of the municipality in which the administrative units in which they were issued were established. Members of the Committee discussed several proposals submitted in the form of amendments by members of the Committee under this provision of the draft law. Thus it was proposed that registration plates should contain coat of arms of municipalities where the car owner has a permanent or temporary residence or seat. After the second amendment, the registration plates would contain the coat of arms of the provinces when they are introduced, which, according to the proposaler's opinion, would be particularly useful in terms of where changes in the number of provinces in relation to the projected constitutional audit procedure would not be such a constant as the establishment of new municipalities. However, other members of the Committee considered that the provisions proposed by the Government were the most appropriate in view of the current organisational and territorial structure of local self-government. However, following the establishment of a stable network of municipalities and the establishment of landscapes, it would be possible and possible to examine and address these issues in a comprehensive manner, including those related to regional labels on license plates. Some members of the Committee also considered that regional markings as an identification element were not of such importance to citizens. Members of the committee also discussed a proposal to use the international two-letter SI code on registration plates. At the same time, the representative of the Government explained that a comprehensive approach would be needed to address the issue of the introduction of the SI marking in road transport, as this marking should be introduced not only for registration plates but also for other documents used in transport. The Committee adopted the amendment of the Member of the Council to Article 2, and the amendments of Mr Matjaž Han to Article 2 and Mr Davorin Terčona to Articles 2 and 6 became irrelevant. The Committee, as its own, also adopted some other amendments and then voted on and adopted all the articles of the law together.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u5	Thank you to the chairman of the committee, Mrs. Mozzie Kucler Dolinar. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, Mr Boštjan Zagorac will present the views of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u6	Thank you for your word. Your Honors are here! There is a road safety law before us again. I think we've changed them so many times that we don't know which letter code complements this law anymore. It seems as if the government or someone in the government seems to need to change this law, and we already have a change of law before us. Therefore, at the outset, I would advise the government to simply gather, collect ideas and then draw up a system law that would fully address the problem. I must say that I am surprised by the Minister's performance when he presented the government's position, as it is significantly different from the representation of the government's representative on the home working body, in particular as regards the letter SI marking. The representative of the government said on the working body that the SI code for the Republic of Slovenia would have to be introduced sooner than later. I am therefore pleased that we have adopted a law on the committee that provides for the registration plate to appear on the SI code. According to the international recognition of the Republic of Slovenia, and this is the fact that the ISO - International Standardisation Organisation, also a voluntary member of the Republic of Slovenia, ISO 3166 standards, has established a two-letter SI code for our country. At the same time, a period of 10 to 15 years has been set for the transition and introduction of the new code in order not to cause direct damage due to changes, indicating passports, transport licences and everything previously stated by the Minister. However, the application of international ISO standards is not mandatory. All standards mean a generally agreed agreement, agreement between voluntary members of the standardisation organisation on common ground and rules of the game. But it is a matter of culture and morality for a member of such an organization to respect these arrangements. I am convinced that the Republic of Slovenia should not excuse the non-bindingness of a certain standard. The Road Traffic Convention has also been waiting for more than 10 years to be confirmed by Slovenia on the use and acceptance of the new code, SI markings. The fact is that the SI marking in the Convention is permanently reserved for the Republic of Slovenia and they are waiting only for us to introduce it in Slovenia. I believe that the introduction of the SI code for the Republic of Slovenia over the period we have had for 10 to 15 years would not constitute an additional cost for the Republic of Slovenia and would finally be classified by the Republic of Slovenia as a country that respects international standards and adheres to certain rules of the organisation of which the Republic of Slovenia is a member. In the Slovenian National Party, we will adopt an amendment to the Road Safety Act. We were also accepted because we adopted an amendment on the home work body, which introduces a new international designation in Slovenia, that is, SI. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u7	Thank you, Mr. Zagorec. Mr Willi Rezman will present the position of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u8	Thank you very much, and good day to all. It is true that this law is often on the agenda and maintains that it would be better if, when we are making changes and making additions, we resorted to it so complex that we could do as much as possible at one time. But now the law is before us, and it is right to define ourselves to it. Our position, the position of the DeSUS Group, the general position, is that the law must be upheld and we will do so. It is true, however, that two levels of debate are important. One which has more functional, operational, day-to-day operational implications and consequences, in particular when we are talking about the need to provide a new deadline for the use of license plates for reasons that have been stated and are reasonable, and the reason why it is necessary to protect the possibility of execution of penalties for those who could otherwise avoid such execution by leaving abroad. That's what we support. The second level, however, seems more prestigious to us, a level that speaks mainly of an emotional relationship, to some dimensions of this law, especially those that speak of the markings of individual coat of arms plates, with municipal coat of arms. We do not estimate that the most important thing is that each congregation has its own coat of arms on the table, because we know that because of events in the past they are on our Republic map, even such congregations, where few 100 such tablets could be distributed, for they are so small. We also consider that, in order to identify, identify or promote, as argued, car plates are not the most important in terms of municipalities. This may require efforts to promote individual municipalities by means of other measures, other content and development programmes. We also reject this mass use of the congregation’s coat of arms because of the promise, which we do not support, the further division of the congregations and the fragmentation of our local self - government. However, it is also right to define ourselves to this SI code, which should be primarily available on the tables, because at a certain level this SI mark was also supported by us. In a later argument, the applicant has given sufficient reasons, sufficiently substantial reasons, in our judgment, to change our position in this regard and to co-sign an amendment to the article that talks about it. However, even though the proposal on SI is reasonable, it is probably even expected internationally, it is permissible, but probably the moment of election, the moment for implementation is not the most appropriate. Of course, the idea of promotion, the emotional relationship, the fact that it is also something prestigious, is also saying that we will put on rental cars special markings that are not registrations, and perhaps what we have recently heard that we will have the opportunity to do so when the OSCE is with us or when the foreign ministers of the summit are to issue an appropriate and special stamp. The new amendments will, on our part, be supported in the sense that they leave the requirement under the SI mark, and in the sense that they remain those municipal coat of arms that have been used in principle so far and that we do not extend the use of these coat of arms. The position of the DeSUS Group is to support the joint amendment and the bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u9	Thank you, Mr. Rezman. Mr Srečko Hvauc will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u10	Thank you for your word. Respectable. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the amendment and amendment of the Road Transport Safety Act, which we adopt following a reduced procedure. The reason for that is quite something. The first, which seems very important to us, is that the registration areas and the coat of arms of the place where the administrative unit was established where this registration procedure took place. As we know, the existing law provides that, after the expiry of the one-year period, these registration areas will be terminated. In our view, it is the view of a large part of Slovenian citizens and citizens that they are somehow bound to these registration areas, so I do not see any specific personal reasons for not remaining such arrangements. Another measure that seems important to us is that it is possible to suspend the driver's licence to that foreigner, and also to anyone else who could have avoided the execution of the court's judgment by leaving the country. It is right that all those who commit offences are in at least about the same situation and that some cannot avoid these penalties. Third thing. In our opinion, given that there will be quite a few large international revenues in Slovenia, the vehicles that will also be hired for this purpose will somehow be marked and this Slovenian identity and visibility will be demonstrated. This is why we will also support this bill in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u11	Thank you, Mr. Hwauc. Mr Davorin Terčon will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u12	Mr President, Mr Minister, colleagues and colleagues. In our view, the proposal for amendments to the law proposed by the Minister is mainly the result of the knowledge that people were not inclined to the regulation that is now in force. As we know, some public opinion polls have also been carried out and people have identified themselves as not particularly inclined to remove registration areas on the tables. I must also say that, in the process of adopting this law, I have now had some concerns about the issue, which has not yet come into force, so to speak, in order to remove the registration mark. Second, the change is clearly a sign of the inability to implement the existing regime, although it could be established. With regard to deadlines, the Minister himself said that he understood them as instructional and not binding, so we are asked why the rush is also with the bill if these hands were actually instructional. However, these amendments can certainly be seen as inconsistencies. The current regime, which has not been implemented, provided for a neutral mark with a national coat of arms on the registration plates. Comparing the arrangements they have in some countries, focusing in particular on neighbouring countries, we can see that they have consistent arrangements. In Austria there is an example of a coat of arms, which is a land, that is, a province, and the markings of the country’s seat. In Italy, the registration area was re-established when the prefecture area or province was already removed. In Croatia there is a national coat of arms and registration areas of the county. Nothing will happen to us, and obviously on the tables, although we are returning to the post-1992 period, we will reintroduce or help to maintain the entire mandate, which we have in the administrative and self-government field and the regional area of Slovenia's regulation. If I can illustrate it with some examples. As I said, the proposed solution brings the matter back to the existing situation, which is completely inconsistent. We have coat of arms that are not coat of arms of administrative units because the administrative units have no coat of arms, they are coat of arms where the administrative units are located, so it happens that someone who is a citizen of the municipality of Bohinj has his coat of arms, but does not have it on the boards, but has the coat of arms of the municipality of Radovljica because there is a seat of the administrative unit in Radovljica. It has a registry area of Kranj, which is supposed to be a Goran but we do not have a Goran province, and this is the remainder of the administrative districts probably from the former country. To make the mess even bigger, we'll obviously have a mix-up even with the state code. We have proposed, the committee has adopted the SI code, we know that this is the international code of Slovenia, but the minister, I must say, also said some valid reasons. The fact is that Slovenia has also worked in the pre-accession contract to retain the SLO mark. All together on the tables will be unconsistency, such as the inconsistencies of our non-consistence, such as the unconstant local self-government, which is constantly changing and such as the unconstant administrative division of Slovenia. That's our greatest thought. I would therefore like to appeal that, despite all of this, we support the amendment tabled by a group of Members with a first-signed colleague Han, which will bring at least a fraction of the consistency to ensure that at least the local communities are consistently represented on the tables, i.e. every citizen who is a citizen of a particular municipality, to have their mark on the tables. We believe that it is also necessary to include a design expertise in the issue process and not leave it to the company that manufactures the plates and to the employees. [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] and I think it would be right for the profession to say something in this area, because this is certainly very important as well. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u13	Mr. Tarchoon [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u14	for the integral image of our country. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr Miran Potrč will present the position of the Socialist Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! The proposed law on amendments and additions to the Road Safety Act is indisputable in those proposals allowing for simplified registration for vehicles leased by the Republic of Slovenia for protocol purposes in the country area. Because of our increased international activities and because of international meetings, which are increasing in Slovenia, we have no doubts about allowing a special procedure for the registration of vehicles which will only be used in Slovenia for limited time and for certain purposes for protocol purposes. We also support proposals to allow more effective enforcement of the ban on motor vehicles in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia against holders of foreign driving licences. However, the Government's proposals regarding the markings on the registration plates of motor vehicles raised many questions and justified proposals. First of all, it points out that this issue and proposals were raised by the government itself when, although the deadline for issuing new license plates under the applicable law has already expired, it proposed their new content. It proposed to return to the registration plates the content which would show the ownership of the vehicle owner to the local area or municipality where the vehicle owner has a permanent residence and, at the same time, the seat of the administrative authority in which the registration plates will be issued. This government proposal, supported by the wishes of the people and the public, has made it quite understandable to ask why it would not then take into account the desire to designate the municipality as a permanent owner of a motor vehicle. This proposal, however, was no longer accepted by the government. It has thus itself become entangled in the inadequacy of its proposals and views, which cannot be conclusively defended. We therefore support the proposal of the Group of Members in the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats that the registration plate also includes the coat of arms of the municipality where the car owner has a permanent or temporary residence or seat. The Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats also pointed out to the government the unresolved issue of the use of our country's abbreviations on the license plate. It noted that the deadline for the introduction of the mark set out in the international standardisation organisation would soon expire, and that Slovenia still uses completely different markings in different areas, as well as in postal services, on the Internet, on the passport and on the ID card. The government and the coalition now convince us that the unification of these markings would represent many obligations for Slovenia and would damage its visibility. It may not be necessary to convince anyone that the Socialist Group of Members has not proposed a reflection on this issue in order to make Slovenia more familiar, and even less so as to cause dissatisfaction among people, but we fear that the government's answers are not convincing and that the government has not given sufficient thought to what is more beneficial or harmful in the long term: many different markings or gradual unification. Finally, Members and Members of the Social Democrats have also pointed out our obligation to use the alphabet of the Slovenian language on license plates, which must also apply to all official documents of our country, namely foresters. This is indeed the least that the country must do to use and respect the Slovenian language. And the unreasonable and thoughtless seem to us to be questioning this well - intentioned and almost entirely logical warning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u17	Thank you, Mr. Run. Mr Anton Kokalj will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u18	The main reason for the proposed amendment of the law is mainly practical nature and is linked to new license plates. Due to the procedural provisions of the Public Procurement Act, a public tender will be required and the legal deadline for the application of the new license plates will therefore need to be re-set. In addition, it is a practical solution to the specific labelling of protocol vehicles in accordance with the law. The proposed amendment also makes it possible to ensure enforcement and thus to move faster and more effective proceedings against holders of foreign driving licences, as well as against all others who would otherwise avoid the enforcement of the judgment of the court by going abroad. The New Slovenia Group supports the proposed amendment of the law. In addition to the above reasons, it is necessary to mention the proposed change in the content of the registration plates, which were also the most discussed on the home committee. The proposed re-establishment of registration plates will preserve the registration areas and the coat of arms of the places in which the administrative units in which they were issued are established. Proposals for the use of the municipal coat of arms of all municipalities are generally acceptable, but we cannot support them at this stage because we believe that the situation in the field of local self-government must finally be regulated in this mandate, including the establishment of new municipalities. The proposals for the province's crests on the license plate are valid, but only when and if we have the provinces. Otherwise, the current registration plates remain valid until the vehicle owner wants to replace them or the vehicle will run out of life. As soon as amendments to the law are in force, a new call for and selection of the operator for registration plates are needed. Given the compliance with the Council of the European Union regulation on the recognition of intra-Community traffic in respect of the identifying marks of the Member State in which motor vehicles and their trailers are registered, as well as the rationality of the solutions in this law, our Group supports it.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u19	Thank you, Mr. Bones. Mr Franz Kangler will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. My friend Kangler's gone, and I'll do it, Janez Kramberger. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Road Safety Act does not bring major substantive changes and we support it in the Slovenian People's Party Group. The Committee on Internal Policy had a very long discussion on the content of the license plates. The provision in the applicable road safety law provides that the sign of the Republic of Slovenia and the registration mark consisting of combinations of letters and numbers and a space for the coat of arms of the Republic of Slovenia should be identified on all tables. We believe that the coat of arms of Slovenia is not necessary because the SLO or SI markings are sufficient to identify the country in which the vehicle is registered. The Slovenian People's Party also has decentralisation in its programme among projects of national importance. This is, of course, not substantively related to the issue of labelling or the content of registration plates, but at least this marking has a symbolic meaning. That is also clearly the view of our citizens, who in the vast majority support the preservation of registration zones and coat of arms markings, from which it is evident where each vehicle is registered. The preservation of registration marks and coat of arms on the tables is therefore symbolic for the inhabitants of individual parts of Slovenia, while the coat of arms also represent the diversity of individual areas of Slovenia. As we say, colleagues and colleagues, Members of the Slovenian People's Party will support the draft law together with the amendment we have co-signed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u21	Thank you, Mr Kramberger. We have completed the presentation of the views of the members of the groups and are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled, which we will lead on the basis of the review of the amendments of the two 21.11.2005. First, I am putting to the debate Article 2 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members, NSI, SLS and DeSUS and the amendment of the group of Members with the first signed by Matjaz Han. Who wants a word? Matjaž Han. Anyone else? Here you go, Mr. Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u22	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary-General. Let me begin by saying that our amendment, which we tabled as a group of Members, is primarily well-intentioned and contains the wishes of the people of the municipality and, of course, of the municipality itself. With the proposed amendment, we want to amend the proposed law so that the people of all Slovene municipalities will still be equal. What's this all about? Administrative units represent only the deconcentration of the state administration or the exercise of state authority. Their borders and seats are not determined by law, but are determined only by a government regulation. Let us remember that the Minister has repeatedly said that he will reorganise administrative units, that he will reduce administrative units and that this will also reduce borders. On the other hand, the municipalities are primarily local authorities, which have no direct connection with the organisation of administrative units. The jurisdiction of one municipality shall be limited to the territory covered by it. This also applies to the use of the symbols of an individual municipality, such as coat of arms and flags. The municipalities are equal in this respect. The proposed solution in law, however, violates this equality. The symbol of one municipality, those where the administrative unit is established, would also be forced to use the citizens of other municipalities covered by each administrative unit. Judging from the many responses to the proposed law that I have received, I believe that most people on the tables want the coat of arms of their congregation, not some other congregation. At the request of the citizens, however, it is not possible to ignore the desire of the congregations that see on their backs an opportunity to promote. The proposal to be supported by the community of Slovene municipalities, which brings together 131 Slovene municipalities, in which almost 1 million and 700,000 people live, is also supported on the coat of arms of all municipalities. I believe that there are Members in this Chamber who are obedient to people, and we want to take their wishes into account. After all, many members of the coalition come from municipalities in a similar situation. For example Bovec, Ig, Medvode, Mežica, Moravce, Rogatec, Šentilj, Šostanj, Stores, Vodice, Vransko, Railways. After all, I come personally from such a congregation, from Radeč. I estimate that the proposed solution in the law of municipalities, where there is no seat of the administrative unit, would put the proposed solution in an unequal position, which is not justifiable. With the proposed amendment, we do not suspend registration anywhere in Slovenia, but our amendment would not cause too much costs and confusion. Those 10% of the people who register the car outside their parent administrative unit would get plates and coat of arms from the administrative unit where the car was registered. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u23	Thank you, Mr. Han. Mr. Hwauc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u24	Thank you for your word. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will, of course, support the amendment we have signed. This is either an SI letter or an SLO mark. It is true that there is some confusion in this area. The International Standard Organisation has assigned us a two-letter SI code. As mentioned earlier, in the pre-accession treaty we have somehow chosen the SLO code. In view of the fact that most documents are currently marked with SLO, such an approach would mean that only one part of them would be regulated and, on the other hand, they are likely to be very complicated in other areas concerning changes in regulations, driving licences, vehicle registration documents, etc. We therefore believe that a comprehensive solution will have to be found in this area. Until these solutions are ready, we believe it is appropriate to keep the SLO marking on the table. That's why we're going to support this amendment, as we said. As for the other amendments that speak of having the coat of arms of individual congregations on the tables, however, it is a pleasing and pleasant amendment, but we believe that it would bring quite a number of problems in practice. We already have almost 200 congregations, when this process is over, and more and more of these congregations will suddenly get plenty of very different tablets, which would complicate certain procedures. We are also convinced that the procedures for issuing these tables would also be encouraged, and this is by no means in the interest of those who pay for these services. That is why we will not support this amendment in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u25	Thank you, Mr. Hwauc. Mrs. Pechanova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u26	Good day and thank you for saying so, Mr President! I will support both one amendment and the other, especially because I believe that I would have listened to even or seen comments on television, very sarcastic and very distasteful, at the expense of the use of the coat of arms of municipalities on the tables. The first thing I have to say is that it's a waste of time that this would cost users a lot of money. That is not true, for even now the tablets are marked with the coat of arms of the municipalities where the administrative unit is located, in which the tablet is issued, and these coats are not printed where the plates are made, but are affixed with a self-adhesive label. That's the first one. Another thing is, if someone wanted to have a designated congregation in which the administrative unit and not its own congregation were established, no one would have prevented him from doing so. However, I also believe that, as a result of confirming this universal wish of the citizens of Slovenia to have instead of 193 municipalities, as far as it all appears today, about 220, it is right for those 27 municipalities in the newly formed municipalities to have the opportunity to also show on the registration plate which municipality they belong to. That is also why I believe that this is not a matter of liking and flattering the electorate, but of identifying a given fact. If I apply the matter to myself, however, it does not matter to me personally, for I am in a congregation that covers only the administrative unit or administrative unit of this congregation alone. As a result, I have a certain privilege because I live in a congregation that is equal to an administrative unit. Unfortunately, there are very few of these in Slovenia. And there'll be fewer of those soon enough. Therefore, I believe that this belonging to the newly formed congregation also means something and consider whether it would not be more appropriate to agree to allow this amendment to distinguish. But when we talk about complications - you know, this hump on its own doesn't really mean anything. The only thing that happened in Italy, if you remember years ago, when they were, I think it's two, three years ago when they stopped marking cars, registration plates by origin, by place, but they have some codes, from A, U, E and so on. As citizens, the Italians resisted and demanded that in some way the driver’s origin or driver’s origin of the car continue to be disassociated in some way, because of the fact that I can make a little mockery of the driver’s ability to say, look, see, those “buttastic Triestes” can’t drive at all. If the label was such that you didn't see where it came from, then you couldn't take it as a Ripper, but as an Italian, because you didn't know where it came from. And there is also one possibility that we will be able to measure the Ljubljanaers when they are driving wrong, while those from the promised municipalities who belong to the Ljubljana administrative unit will not listen to them at their expense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u27	Thank you, Mrs. Pecans. Mr. Janc, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Minister, colleagues, colleagues. Of course, I support this amendment to the supplement proposed by the government and also by the mother body, because I think it is perfectly fine. It is true, however, that this proposal also has its weight and its purpose. Of course, for those congregations that have an administrative seat, it is slightly different than for those who do not. However, there are certain arguments that the time for this change may not have matured according to my assessment. We have regionalism ahead of us, the new provinces that will happen, I hope that next year, if that is the will in this House. Surely we will have new congregations. Whether it's 10, 15 or 20, 30, no one knows that now. This is the time that will come to this Parliament as soon as possible. And when we have finished this story, I hope that in some two years, we may then come back with a certain change to this Parliament, with a government that might be so much more balanced by those municipalities that we now have the coat of arms on the tables, and those municipalities that are and that are still to be created, might somehow put it in this Slovenian space in a way. But I understand the mayors of the municipalities who don't have these stories to want their backs on their board. That's perfectly logical. If I were Mayor Radeč, I'd certainly want to. And it will probably be necessary here for the government to think a little bit about how the municipalities are just like we are, big, small, with the headquarters of administrative units, without the seats of administrative units, and that every mayor would want his license plate on his own vehicle. This would therefore be worth it, and this amendment proposal, which may be a little premature on the right at this time, would nevertheless be prepared when the region is set up, when the new municipalities are more or less concluded in this new package, which will certainly come to do so again and make corrections once more. This is no big deal, and perhaps we would also take this comment into account, which I think is not only attractive, but also correct to every Slovenian congregation and to the new arrangement that Slovenia will certainly have with the provinces. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u29	Thank you, Mr. Janz. Here you go, Mr. Tarchoon.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u30	Thank you, Mr. President. I would say that you must first realize that this law does everything that nothing will change. This law only restores matters, legitimizes what is, nothing else, returns matters back to 1992 and so on. In fact, nothing changes anything. I'm the one who gave him the consistency. See, the citizens said they do not agree with the coat of arms of the Republic of Slovenia, which is now prescribed in a law that is not enforced, but said in particular that they want to have registration areas. I also understand some concerns about putting on the coat of arms of each congregation. Why do I understand? Look, we now have a proposal in the National Assembly, I think that 34 or, I don't know how many new congregations and the ruling right-wing coalition, which has always been fond of the fragmentation of the congregations, understands that we will not be able to change the tables as quickly as they will create new congregations. That's why this thought is on your side because you think there will always be new and new congregations, I don't know how many in the end. We wanted to be consistent with this amendment so that people would actually represent themselves with what they are to identify with the registration area. Since we don't have provinces, there's this thing that they're carrying from the past, but it's obviously gotten to the heart the most. And if I remember when we were changing the law, there were not enough concerns to remove the coat of arms of municipalities where the administrative units were established, because this is now the case, and we introduced the Slovenian coat of arms, but it was the greatest thought that we were removing the registration areas. At the time it was me, I think one of the main ones that I thought, even though our ruling then coalition was this, I objected to it - I proposed and you didn't have a lot of concerns. But when you go to change a situation and follow the will of people at the end of the day, you have to be careful that you change it properly. And if we now return the registrar areas because people wanted to, and at the same time we return the humps, then we return those who really exist and the congregations that exist. Without returning something that doesn't matter, and if someone asks us what it represents on your plates, I've already said before that we can identify in all the neighbouring countries, what is presented on these tables, but we as Slovenians will not know what to say. It will be so complicated that no one will be able to understand it. I want to say that this confusion that exists, as I have already said, in the area of the administrative self-government of the regional division of Slovenia, we are also transferring the specimens to the registration plates and our image, which is why this matter seems important to me. We just wanted a little consistency, to give correctness to the tables, so I urge that this amendment be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u31	Thank you, Mr. Tarchoon. Mr. Zagorac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u32	Thank you for your word. Respectable present. We will not oppose the amendment in the Slovenian National Party, but it is true that we simply cannot agree with certain statements made by the MPs, especially in the statement that if we introduce additional coat of arms, this will not have any cost. It will cost, indeed, not to be as enormous as some would like to present it. Also, printing such a label costs something to say that the cost will not be at all is unrealistic. The next reason why this amendment should be accepted, according to the applicants, is that it is a matter of promoting a congregation. Let me tell you, please, from 193 existing and some incoming congregations, how many coat of arms do you actually know. I doubt that all 90 Members could draw the coat of arms of Ljubljana or Maribor, the capital and the second largest city, but no small congregations, I do not know, but I will say at the edge of Maribor. The reason why such an amendment is acceptable is that municipalities that do not have administrative units are like those that have a seat of an administrative unit. The tables, you know, have a limited space and when we introduce the landscapes hope that no one will come yet with desire because they are proud of their landscape, and it is right that he is proud of it, that he will also put it on the table because we will slowly then drive on cars from behind the poster. Another thing that gets me in the face is that you decided on this amendment today and not when you had actual power, the possibility of changing such a law. That's when you had that majority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u33	Thank you, Mr. Zagorec. Mr. Han. He's quitting. Mr. Bevk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will, of course, support my fellow Member's amendment, because I think that opposition to this amendment is a pure whim of the government or opposition to any proposal by the opposition, if it is still so well-intentioned. I think that the country or this coalition could also symbolically give recognition to Slovenian municipalities, including the tens and tens that this National Assembly is expected to approve in the coming months. It's just a technical question. When the coat of arms of Idria was wiped out or damaged, I went to the administrative unit, and the worker gave me the coat of arms of the Idrija congregation, and I put it beautifully on the table, and the matter was resolved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u35	Thank you, Mr. Bevk. Mr. Gulic.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u36	Dear Mr President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I will support both amendments because I think they make sense, despite all the nonsense that has actually been dragging on for a while. And I don't mean just the time of the current ruling coalition, but I think it's already. We Slovenians are sort of traditionalistic, and when we get used to something, it's hard to give up. And that's what you've seen with these plates. But, of course, we have also seen that, while we love Slovenians and proud Slovenians, we are also relatively very narrow patriots, in fact, pure pilgrims. So we could also decide in some way that we have an empty space there, which we then fill individually with either congregations and local communities or with symbols, such as from a club, a society. If we have little kids, we could put a bear on or something. Mainly, this space could even be legally free and left to each individual, because we are Slovenians even with everything I said earlier, great individualists. But still, we want to have something in common. And the tables are one of those things that I think have been so caught up in Slovenia that it's really very hard to think that we would have some unrecognizable codes there that no one would know about, or just dedicated to what they mean. The second thing that seems important to me is the use of all 25 letters of Slovenian alphabet. It would be good, though, to have, for it is also an integral part of our identity. Unless, of course, we decide at this time to return to the time of Adam Bohorič and Sebastián Krelja and start using the rabbit, otherwise called the goddess. There were no pecking letters, there were no gay signs from Czech, but we had a nice CH, ZH, SH and of course there were no problems. This, of course, would certainly, if not to the others, have been supported by computer crap, which even years ago suggested that we return. Most of the complications we can do, that's what I'm trying to say, even from the little things we want to do, and we're headed to death and beyond. But there's no need. For this reason, of course, I will support both the amendments and the amendment of the law, so that there will be peace once and for all, and that people will be in the clear. As far as paying for these coat of arms is concerned, let me put it another way. It's already paid for today. If the licensee who issues the plates doesn't have your back, let's say he has another license plate, he tells you you can get your coat of arms for 250 tolars and stick it at home yourself. As far as national codes are concerned, it would also be a time to consider whether we are SLO or SI, and until then I will drive there on the NSK car, where there are no such problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u37	Thank you, Mr. Gulic. Mr. Mikolitch, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Mr President, and very much welcome. I myself believe that the change in law will not be as confusing as it has been heard, but I would like to point out that the congregations have often given the initiative to have the congregation’s coat of arms in registers or license plates. Indeed, this proposal may not have matured yet, so I would point out another reason why the congregations should have only these coat of arms, according to some of the rules of the coat of arms or heraldic rules, since we know that some municipalities have coat of arms in this context and some municipalities actually have so - called emblems. However, I would like to point out that I think I am a rather illogical solution, which was before and will be until further notice, and we should certainly go ahead and get rid of it. If, for example, I, the resident of Rogatec, have the registration area of Celje, CE, and I have the coat of arms, I will not say now to Šmarje at Jelša that they will not resent me, but to the administrative unit of Šentjur. I'd kind of make sense if I had a coat of arms, I'd say, this princely town of Celje, that he wouldn't mind one side or the other. You know, like the proponents, somehow argue that you will promote the place, I don't know, without any financial incentives for the one that I, the specific congregation of Šentjur, really think that there is no argument that we have these crests, where the administrative units are located in the license plate, unless, at present, I'm going to go a little crazy, they're really ready to give this to our congregation, so that we can fix some 100 meters of road where these residents and the people of Šentjur are going to drive. I think it would make sense to think about this in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u39	Thank you, Mr. Mikolitch. Mr. Mogue, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u40	Thank you very much, President. The times when we had a sovereign state were over. We have brought certain rights to Europe and it is appropriate to adapt other things in the country. One of these is the license plate. The registration plate in the previous country was a symbol of recognition in our country, it is said in the country if you want Yugoslavia, then also before we came to the EU, Slovenia and we had two signs on cars, one was the country of SLO, and the other was the registration plate that started what I know, Maribor, the number and so on and with the coat of arms of Maribor. Since we have now passed this period through these only SLO round-shaped badges, we have transferred to the registration plate and the license plate now has a recognition function in Europe and we will put on this table symbols that we are supposed to be identified in Europe and on which we are to be proud. If we look at things around us, Italy or Austria, then there's one symbol in the first part of the table that denotes the country, the other symbol is that symbol that denotes a country or region or whatever you want, the territorial division of such a country that corresponds to the standard of classification of territorial units at the second level. We don't have that, superstandard. [[?]] The second-level classification of territorial units has been the whole country for us until recently, but it is now divided into two cohesion regions and we do not have any administrative regions. And if we were proud of anything and once we wanted to save this forever, I think it would be best if the coat of arms were the one who symbolized the Republic of Slovenia. A living baptism in Denmark will not know if there will be one coat of arms of a congregation, what this matter means. I think we should solve this thing globally but not share more than we do, that we will be even less recognizable in the European Union. It seems to me that when we save these things, we should save them for a long time. The old Latins used to say "quidquid agis prudentter ages, tails fine" - whatever you do, do smart and think about the end. For this reason, this debate is that, in any case, the coat of arms of the congregations that will change, which are indistinguishable abroad, should be placed on the license plate, declassified.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u41	Thank you, Mr. Mohet. Anyone else want to discuss the amendments and the article? No, no, no. Then I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 6th item of the agenda or at the latest at 18.40. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 3. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Added Value Tax Act. The draft law was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u42	I've checked in so long ago that you wouldn't open the point and you probably didn't see it. President, I would suggest that there would also be some consistency in the part of the National Assembly if we could accept that the National Assembly will vote half an hour after the 6th a-point, which we have spelled out in the middle, so that not all the other points are now being addressed, and this point in particular. If I don't get support for this procedural proposal, it won't be a big deal either, but otherwise, I think we'd somehow keep this way of work that we've been used to.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u43	I think that would be feasible. Nor is it necessary for us to vote now because I do not know if we are concluding this procedural proposal. However, I don't think anyone would mind that we do the vote at 6a, or, at the latest, half an hour after the end of the 6a, if the entire debate and the entire programme of today were to end before it was announced. We return to point 3 and find that there is no government representative at this point. Wait a minute. I ask the representative of the Ministry of Finance to join the National Assembly, because we have begun our consideration of item 3 of the agenda - this is a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the value added tax law. Thank you to the representatives of the Ministry of Finance for taking their seats. And I give the floor to the representative of the government, i.e. to the Minister for further explanation of the proposed law on amendments and additions to the value added tax law. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Mr. President. What a lovely greeting to all Members and Members of Parliament. When we introduced the value added tax law into Slovenia in July 1999, it was also amended several times later. The whole system is based on the solutions that the European Union knows, which have all been entered in the Sixth Council Directive of 17 May 77, and on this basis Slovenia has also introduced this. The VAT system is based on the principle of accounting after invoiced realization. However, Member States had this option, and still have it, that for certain transactions or for certain categories of taxpayers they may provide for the calculation of VAT on the basis of a paid realization. At the time of the introduction of VAT in 1999, Slovenia decided not to implement the specific solutions provided by this Article, paragraph 2, of the Sixth Directive. In view of the views expressed by the professional public, and also in view of the problems that have arisen and are known in Slovenia, regarding the effects of payment discipline and given the re-weighting of the advantages, the disadvantages of introducing such an arrangement, the government has decided to propose this amendment to the law that is before you today. That is to say, for taxpayers who carry out less than 50 million tax transport in 12 months, they can significantly ease the tax burden on those taxpayers in order to create the obligation, not at the date of the invoice, but from the actual payment. However, I must point out that the proposal of this law does not deviate from the essential fundamental principles of value added tax accounting on which this existing law is based. However, these changes are important because they will in some way, in a significant way, ease the burden on certain debtors. We have decided for 50 million, and thus around 70% of all those in debt will be able to do so. This option, which will be adopted if this National Assembly also adopts legislation, will be taken into account from 1.1.2006. All articles, the whole law would come into force from 1.1.2006. Article 9, which requires this to be done before 15 December, would come into force immediately. Therefore, the possibility for the debtors to enforce this will remain, on the basis of the Sixth Directive of the European Union and also on the basis of the experience of other Member States which have introduced such a system. The public financial effects of this are difficult to calculate, but, in the worst case, if all the debtors actually working in this area would take advantage of these options, this would be about 5 billion tolars. We do not think that this limit will be reached either, because finally there are restrictions on transactions that can be taken into account. In this law, we retain the fundamental principle that for all transactions across borders within the European Union, the system must still be maintained after invoicing. On this basis, the government proposes to the National Assembly that this law be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u45	Thank you, Minister. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. I ask the chairman of the Committee, Mr Bojan Starman, to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u46	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members. At the first meeting of the 10th emergency meeting, on 17.11.2005, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on Finance and Monetary Policy considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the value added tax law submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, proposing that the law submitted should be considered and adopted following an urgent procedure. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service, which examined the law submitted in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and from a legislative technical point of view and commented on the provisions of Articles 3 and 4 of the Act. In its comment, under Article 3, the service points out the uncertainty of the expression of taxable persons, buyers of goods or contracting entities in Article 46a, second paragraph, since there is no such statement in the preceding paragraph of this Article. However, the comments of the service to the provisions of Article 4 or in this context of the new 52.p, 52.r and 52.s of Articles shall be taken into account by amendments tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary groups to Article 4. We have received the opinion of the Commission of the State Council, the letter of the Chamber of Commerce, the position of the Association of Member Management Companies, the amendment proposal of the Association of Securities Exchange Members. The Committee was sent and amended by the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club of 15.11.2005 of the Coalition's parliamentary groups of 16.11.2005. Representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Legal and Legislative Service attended the meeting. In the introduction to the explanation of the articles, the Prime Minister, as an important novelty introduced on the basis of the proposed novelty, highlighted the special arrangements for the payment of VAT after the paid realization, which will help to ease the tax burden on the work of taxpayers. The other solutions proposed are only complementary to the solutions already in place, or are more specific to the new rules established in the Sixth Directive. In the debate, we first touched on the level or proposal of the Liberal Democracy Club of Member States to abolish the value limit after realisation, after a paid realization, and to allow them to decide to calculate the VAT payment on the basis of the paid realization of all the debtors. It was found, and the government representative simply said that this would probably not be in line with the Sixth Directive, which takes into account two criteria, either the division of the volume of the taxed traffic, or the decision of the type of transaction, so it was a decision not to accept this amendment. However, if this amendment were accepted, as previously said, we cover up to 70% of taxpayers, potential taxpayers, who would decide to do so, or 61 000 400 legal persons or debtors. If this limit were lifted and everyone decided to move on, there would be a theoretical possibility of falling out of the current VAT revenue of over 70 billion tolars. Then we considered the proposal to increase this amount or this value to 80 million tolars, the proposal by the Chamber of Commerce and the Council of State, which we have not accepted. The Committee adopted amendments to the parliamentary groups of the Slovenian Democratic Party, New Slovenia, the Slovenian People's Party and the Democratic Party of Pensioners to the new 52.p., 52.r., 52.s. and 52nd. Article, however, did not adopt the amendments of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia to the new 52nd century, 52nd century. and paragraphs 52. The Committee voted on all the articles of the law and adopted them, and also invites the National Assembly to adopt it in the form presented.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u47	Thank you, Mr. Starman. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Willi Rezman will be the first to present the position of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u48	Thank you. So, in our group, it is important to note that it would not be good if the five tax laws understood separately, i.e. past connections, past connotations, past the implications that they contain and, of course, beyond the consequences that are likely to occur in the following year, when individual laws are proposed to enforce this further. We therefore consider that this law, which we are now talking about, is a tax law, the VAT law is just an introduction to the tax package, an introduction to the tax package, and that this tax package is actually just an introduction in, as is the government itself or the applicant, to the budgetary debate. We also consider that this package of prepositions to be a debate on reform, on the reform framework. In the DeSUS Group, we support the draft budget and also those parts of these laws that will be dealt with to help implement it. We also support the reform framework, but this does not mean that without reservations, in all detail, we would support what is now being offered as a proposal for a debate. We believe that there will be a lot of such proposals that will need to be amended, which will need to be abandoned by some, or otherwise argued that they will also be able to gain our support. Our support will last as long as we assess that the combined effects are greater than individual losses, than what will be shown at individual levels, and as long as this is still socially acceptable or until this brings the individual categories of our population into a less favourable position than we have now. And let me remember, we advocate that the social and other situation of Slovenia and the Slovenians should not change dramatically, especially to the worst. If things were going any better, thank God. The proposer speaks in this proposal of two levels, of a less important level, and I do not intend to discuss this, and of a more important level. This more important level is what we call paid realization. What is expected of this? It is simply that these are for the first time some permissive features within the general principles of the European Union. This is probably a tax relief for those concerned and, of course, it shows support. It has been said, and also written down, that of course means liquidity outflow and that this liquidity will be replaced in about five to seven billion by other tax sources. We hope that the payer will not be the final consumer, the one who will cover this tax evasion. Especially not the part where you could say that he is more at risk in our society. Nor do we support the fact that everyone, in order for everyone to have this right to decide for a paid realization, is it because we simply believe the numbers that the government has served, and the government is saying that this would pose a significant threat to the implementation of the budget, as proposed, so we do not intend to cast our votes. Weakness, if we call it that, is also an increased administration that cannot be avoided. The Committee rejected proposals based on economic proposals. This is what we think is not best, and we wonder if perhaps the Committee on the Economy would vote differently than the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. Wouldn't you see other interests, the interests of the economy more at the forefront? We will, however, support the hope that this will mean some contribution to payment discipline, tax discipline, that it will indeed burden the economy and that this will not burden the final consumer excessively.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u49	Thank you, Mr. Rezman. Mr Bojan Starman will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u50	Thank you so much for saying that. Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party will, of course, support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the value added tax law. We have been following for a long time the comments of various, especially small entrepreneurs, that in this country, where payment discipline is very poor, they are burdened by tax, VAT before they receive payment for their services or products. And I think it is right that the government has decided to give this opportunity to our entrepreneurs, so that they can decide voluntarily or decide to pay taxes after a paid realization or as before. Of course, the fact is that the payment of the post-paying tax is likely to be decided very differently, unfortunately this requires additional administration and it must be borne in mind that the deduction of the tax on the basis of the paid realization of the invoices, which is also necessary to say and be recognised in these matters. I think the change in law brings some other minor changes. I would also like to say that in the committee, quite a bit of hot blood has led to a debate about why this traffic limit is 50 million tolars. Without VAT, this turnover does not take into account the sale of any underlying assets and such matters, which is also deducted, it was necessary to decide on one number which is manageable somewhere from the point of view of the projected or possible liquidity shortfall in the Treasury, we have seen that a possible 5 to 7 million tolar drop is envisaged and the border should be set somewhere. Personally, I might prefer to see some 10 million more, but if it involves 70% of the taxpayers, it seems to me that this figure is still appropriate to change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u51	Thank you, Mr. Starman. Mag. Milan M. Cvikl will present the position of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u52	Mr President, Mr Minister, Members and Members of Parliament! On behalf of the Member's Club, I will talk about the position first, in principle, as regards the package of law and then, in particular, the value added tax. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has decided to quickly amend certain elements of tax legislation this year. We note that these changes in tax legislation create a serious confusion caused by new and new ideas on tax reforms, and we will obviously end these reforms with a single tax rate. There is also a need to consider the proposal to amend and supplement the value added tax law. Apparently, the government has decided that it needs a populism move. Due to the necessary applause at the government's trade fair meeting, she decided to introduce a second method, the method of paid realization, into the value added tax system. In the Liberal Democracy Club, we have no problem with introducing a method of paid realization, if the government has already assessed that it makes sense to have a double system of charging taxes. As we will talk about in some other laws, we have a government that, after six, seven years of introducing value added tax, puts its system on its head, so the article that changes it is written for quite a long time. However, we have a problem if the government decides that this will only apply to some. The government has informed the European Union that this will apply to small and medium-sized enterprises, but of course the limit is 50 million miles away. This is a limit that may apply to some S.p.'s and some micro-enterprises. That is why we have proposed, with the amendment, the abolition of the cap on value added tax after a paid realization. We are aware that this has certain liquidity effects, where these liquidity effects are calculated at a rate of 50 billion, but at the same time at the tax on the income of legal persons with amendments proposed by the Government, for eternity not only liquidity, it is not only for two, three months at a time, but for eternity we are losing more than 50 billion because the government is increasing the tax on the income of legal persons relief. We also reiterate that in the tax on amendments to the Income Act, the government loses up to 70 billion interest on those who have received denationalisation bonds for eternity. So the government has decided that, as it is said, it is benevolent to some and, of course, we believe that the introduction of a double system of wage realisation is not appropriate. It is not appropriate because the introduction of the wage realisation of the problem of financial discipline in S.p.s and micro-enterprises will not solve it. The problem of financial discipline is mainly related to the fact that the government fulfils its tasks in carrying out its budgetary tasks by fulfilling the obligations of the State of public institutions, public undertakings and that its public procurement is in full compliance. Let us stress that the pay-per-view system is mainly useful in countries where governments have previously protected small and medium-sized enterprises with good work in their courts, enforcement and, in particular, the ongoing work of economic courts. Therefore, we say that this move in the value added tax law is primarily a populist move that causes problems under the carpet. So what does the government really do? We estimate that it works in a populism manner and, because of one round of applause, introduces the duality of the system to the Prime Minister. We have proposed an amendment to remove the restriction, and we have also supported the amendments to raise this limit from 50 million to 80 million dollars, as proposed by the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, but all of this has not been accepted. At the same time, an additional problem arises when amending the value added tax law. We adopt these laws at the same time as the 2007 draft budget. The 2007 draft budget lacks 30 billion. 30 billion who, as Mr Minister has already said, will be acquired by the government by raising the VAT rate. So we don't understand what the purpose of this law is. Whether the purpose of this law is merely to be populist or to support the 2007 state budget. We currently have a great deal of dichotomy between the proposals, and we propose that we make an amended law on the debate and the vote itself.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Han will present the position of the Socialist Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u54	Dear Minister, representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues! There is already another tax reform ahead of us in this mandate. First, the government took the helm right after it was taken, and apparently the work was not done well enough. The economy has barely recovered from the changes introduced, with new administrative procedures ahead. The government has already sent another tax reform for parliamentary treatment. It is more than obvious that this is not good enough, as we know that the government is preparing for this year, or the following year, at least this is how it took place at the beginning of the year and that there is also a third tax reform to achieve this objective. The facts show that there is confusion in the country's tax area. In public, spears are being broken on the issues of the introduction of a single tax rate, which is the subject of the so-called third reform. Before that, we will adopt a second tax reform, at least as problematic as the introduction of a single tax rate, on a proposal from the Government for a very short period of time. The public is, of course, not well informed about this, as it simultaneously adopts a second and third tax reform and is intended only to conceal the actual consequences of the proposed changes. When we wanted to clear open questions about the consequences with government representatives and coalition members, we came across deaf ears, satisfactory answers containing at least one calculation, and unfortunately we didn't get one. This makes it very clear that changes are fundamental. It is therefore in no way understandable that the Government is in such a hurry to adopt such important legislation in the shortest possible procedure. Even worse than selecting the fastest procedures is the fact that the government and government representatives are not prepared to listen to constructive proposals from representatives of the economy, crafts, culture, students, disabled people and opposition members. Social Democrats are convinced that the introduction of such tax changes must be subject to political and social consensus. Social Democrats are therefore warning the government that creating an unstable tax environment can have a negative impact on economic growth and economic development. We are convinced that economic growth and consequently a positive impact on the labour market, on new jobs and on new jobs, cannot be a matter of ignoring social groups and political opposition. The value added tax law also brings some changes that I can personally welcome, which the government did not wish or could not explain what is with the proposed annual turnover limit of 50 million tolars. Why this limit, why does the government not take into account the comments made by representatives of the small economy? Why not propose a limit of 80 million, or, as suggested by the Chamber of Commerce, for example, 96 million? Even if I ask you here, I probably won't get an answer. As has been the case on the financial and monetary committee. I would expect the government and the Minister of Public Finance to provide us with more information and to be able to produce some simulation of the consequences of the proposed tax reform. Even so, the Social Democrats of such a law cannot, under such conditions, support and accept responsibility for all consequences.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u55	Thank you, Mr. Han. Mr Cyril Testen will move the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u56	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament, Minister with fellow Members. In the Parliamentary Group of New Slovenia - The Christian People's Party we support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the VAT law. We also agree with all the amendments adopted by the Committee on Finance as a parent of the labour force. The amendments will be necessary to our opinion because they are indirectly linked to the adoption of the EU acquis, the Sixth Directive, and also because the solutions proposed are directly linked to the 2006 and 2007 draft state budget. The law certainly offers some groups of taxpayers additional benefits which, in our view, will undoubtedly have a positive impact on their business. In the New Slovenia Group, we believe that they are very positive and particularly important in the following solutions. The most important acquisition of the VAT bill is certainly an opportunity for small and medium-sized enterprises to account for VAT on the basis of a paid realization. This applies to all companies whose turnover without VAT does not exceed 50 million. There were many comments, as well as proposals by some Members and also other interested groups, that the amount was too small and that it would make sense to raise it to 80 and others to even 100 million. In our Group's view, the limit to 50 million is the one that is still acceptable for the 2006 budget under the given circumstances, in which the 5 to 7 billion liquidity is expected to have to be covered by other resources due to this law. We also talked a lot on the Finance Committee about whether we can also talk about medium-sized enterprises within the proposed amount. Our view is that the size of the company depends to a large extent on the activity it is engaged in. The payment of VAT on the basis of the paid realization is certainly a benefit, given the fact that on average in Slovenia 60 days are payment deadlines. The law is certainly also favourable for those entrepreneurs who are paid with much delay, but for some companies that are never in trouble. However, it is also true that an entrepreneur wishing to be included in the VAT account after a paid realization must also monitor, in addition to other data, the data on payments received and made, which increases administration. The new law also seeks to supplement specific schemes for farmers not bound by VAT and selling their crops to other EU Member States to taxpayers. A taxable person who pays and charges VAT in accordance with this law must submit to the competent tax authority the VAT identification number requirements, which also applies to those who are not taxable persons and who use such a form of payment. The law also regulates changes in criminal provisions, particularly in criminal matters for those who are not entrepreneurs and perform activities as flatfooters. Once again, let me say that the New Slovenia Group of Members will support the bill. However, as far as confusion is concerned, we believe that the adoption of the law of the former government is almost impossible.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u57	Thank you, Mr. Testen. Mr Josip Bajc will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u58	President, Mr. Minister, coworkers, colleagues and colleagues all have a nice greeting together! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we find, like everyone else, that this is a second amendment to the tax legislation adopted by the National Assembly last year and which provisions, as a majority, or to the greatest extent possible, have entered into force since 1.1.2005. We estimate that, to the greatest extent possible, all the laws that will be the subject of today's debate at this session, as well as those that will be tomorrow, will improve the situation of both individual citizens and individuals, as well as legal persons or societies. And that is also true of this law. So that we do not adhere to the thinking that has been expressed either in the media or on the home labour body and which has also read to this law or, above all, to other laws that will be the subject of debate to take on certain rights already acquired. We estimate that the laws under consideration give as much rights as possible, and this also applies to this law. We estimate that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, after a long period of convincing the previous government as well as the current government, has decided to allow certain smaller taxpayers to calculate value added tax on the basis of the so-called paid realization, which means that the taxpayer will pay VAT only when he receives payment for the service or goods delivered. The Slovenian People's Party welcomes and supports this solution. This solution represents an important improvement in the liquidity situation of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. So far, it has been common for micro and small enterprises to hire short-term loans from time to time in order to pay the accrued value added tax for the work performed or the services performed. Following this proposed regulation, this liquidity situation will improve in our view, as value added tax will only have to be paid after payment of invoices or invoices issued. According to our assessment, the economy is a very welcome and kind measure. It is also right that the State suffers to a certain extent the fate of the economy, and that due to payment non-discipline, it shares the fate of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises in particular. Of course, the proposed regime immediately puts a potential pressure on the extension of payment deadlines and, may also, on payment non-discipline. In the Slovenian People's Party, we believe and assess that in such a case, the government will have to consider measures to ensure that this does not happen on the market. On the Slovenian public side, contrary to some, we estimate that the threshold of 50 million SIT is appropriate. According to some statistics, more than 90% of individual entrepreneurs and 60% of companies will be able to bill and pay VAT after a paid realization. We believe that the threshold is also appropriate in this respect and, at the same time, budgetaryly sustainable because of the liquidity gap. The Slovenian People's Party further supports the introduction of the possibility of granting flat-rate transport compensation to other Member States of the European Union. This option provides an opportunity for the debtors from other Member States to request the refund of the flat-rate refund paid if they purchase agricultural and forestry crops from the flat-rate farmer. Following the current system, this was not possible, which resulted in a flat-rate compensation for these buyers, which reduced the competitive advantage of flat-rate farmers compared to other value added tax taxpayers. On the basis of all of this, the Members and the Slovenian People's Party's Group will support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the value added tax law, as adopted on the home labour body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u59	Thank you, Mr. Baitz. Mr Sašo Peče will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u60	Your Honors are here! Tax policy or fiscal policy has some characteristics and, according to our assessment, as widely known estimates, fiscal policy is an exclusive instrument of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia under macroeconomic instruments. I mean, with tax burdens, they can only be prescribed by the executive or legislative branch of power. Its specificity, however, is that this instrument is used most globally in the Republic of Slovenia, as the fact is that all are subject to the tax. According to our assessment, it is from this title, i.e. this widest range and exclusive right of prescribing the form, that I would release the heights, in short, of all the concepts related to government and national council taxes, that we should talk about tax reforms around VAT in the context of an expanded or normal debate. This is a debate that would allow for the participation of both parliamentary parties, to be held in plenary session or in the home work bodies, but more importantly, it would be important to include social partners in the debate on fiscal policy in this case around VAT. So, as it is said, one would expect that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which seeks universal satisfaction, would seek consensus for the first time among political parties, which is of course difficult, and for the second time, which is far more important, consensus within the social partners. Unfortunately, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia came to us for an unknown reason before this National Assembly after dealing with tax matter for more than a year, following a procedure which, of course, excludes consensus in society that excludes agreement with the social partners and which excludes the realization of positive content. Unfortunately, at least after our assessment, there has been some kind of absurd situation, i.e. when the Ministry of Finance proposes the most important laws that actually touch each of us directly or indirectly by system or by emergency procedure. I also have to say that this is of course a criticism of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, and because of the right attitude, I am obliged to say that the Prime Minister has promised, at a meeting in the National Assembly, of course, that the remaining reform laws that will come into Parliament's procedure in 2006 and 2007 will come under normal procedure, that is, the procedure that enables the pursuit of the positive objectives of individual laws. To the extent that, of course, we believe the words of the Prime Minister is in any way his promise to say hello. From this place, however, I must say that, of course, each of the laws that will come to the National Assembly will also be accompanied in this way and that we will keep our word to the Prime Minister. In short, in 2006, 2007 the National Assembly, as the legislative branch of the authorities in the field of tax policy, is expected to meet in accordance with the normal procedure and not in accordance with the procedure that is today, i.e. in the initial phase of reforms, ahead of us. As far as the proposed value added tax law is concerned, I must point out two guidelines or two dimensions. The first is the dimension that some have already highlighted before me, i.e. the dimension of the liquidity gap or the tax deficit. According to our assessment, this is, of course, a discrepancy in this area, confirmed by the representatives of the Ministry of Finance, to the questions raised or raised by individual members - as a result of this reduced procedure. And the other dimension that we would like to highlight is this method of realization or determination of two segments of companies, small and medium on the one hand, by establishing borders and others that are, of course, on the other hand, on the other hand, causing, at least after our assessment, irreconcilability, but unfortunately, irreconcilableness, because, of course, this objective or this content brings positive changes, and we regret that, therefore, the law, which also has some positive characteristics, is sufficiently inconvenient or inconvenient, that the question is whether it is able to pursue positive qualities that the law, of course, should pursue. In doing so, I should also point out as an introduction to the debate on this law that we assess that both characteristics, namely liquidity and the new method, could be positively beaten or enacted by a greater consensus or normal procedure. In this part of the year, criticism of the government, as regards the pursuit of the secondary objective of the Act, of course, receives the support of the Slovenian National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u61	Thank you, Mr. Pechet. We have completed the presentation of the views of the members of the groups and are moving on to a second reading, this is to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled, which we will lead on the basis of the review of the amendments of 22.11.2005. I am putting forward the debate on Articles 4 and 3 of the amendments of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia to Articles 52, 52 and 52.s. Who wants a word? Nobody. Mr. Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Members and Members of Parliament. The amendments we have proposed are trying to address the problem created by the government. Of course, the government, by law amending and supplementing the value added tax law for a specific group or for those who in the last 12 months do not exceed 50,000 tolars, but decided to introduce a different system, a system of wages and realization. Previously, it has been said to me that, of course, as long as the government estimates that the tax situation and income trends are such, we do not have a problem with the decision to introduce the paid realization, but we have a problem that the system is double. We also wonder in this regard whether the appropriate limit is exactly 50 million tolars. We know that some countries have a much higher threshold, so that we would like to eliminate, with support to this amendment, the cap on the added value after the paid realization, and thus all taxpayers, regardless of the amount of their turnover, could choose to charge the value added tax after the paid realization. We are aware of the objections, these objections were, of course, also presented on the Finance and Monetary Policy Committee itself, so that this could have a major liquidity shock. We also understand the Government's objections that such an introduction or full choice would in some way violate several directives of the European Union, but then we do not understand the government and the ruling coalition, why it did not join the opinion of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, which proposes that this limit should not be 50 million, but 80 million, so that it would be necessary to establish in the debate on these amendments the reasons of the Government, why exactly 50 million, the government is silent on this in the document itself. Perhaps the only possible explanation is simply that the government has made a decision because of limited public financial resources, due to a limited liquidity settlement of the budget, to place this on 50 million tolars. So that the debate that should be held in this amendment should in fact be a debate on the real reasons for introducing this legislative change is a legal change, which some say is necessary in order to address financial non-discipline. If this is indeed the goal of the government to eliminate financial non-discipline, the government should say something else in this law in its individual articles, in particular to ensure that independent entrepreneurs and micro-entrepreneurs, to whom this applies, do everything in the management of public finances, in order to reduce financial non-discipline. With the introduction of the border proposed by the government, with the introduction of 50 million tolls of tax transport, we fear that financial non-discipline will increase, that there will be mutual settlement and that effective payments will be made to suppliers to their subcontractors. By not understanding the government and proposing an amendment that in some way gives medium and small enterprises the opportunity to choose a way of achieving paid realization. Another additional argument why we consider that there is no fear of such a large use of the method of paid realization is simply that most companies, key companies, especially those that are public companies, are quoted on the stock exchange for a variety of other reasons, especially for showing their financial statements, are now choosing, with the introduction of international accounting standards, as the only meaningful and logical method of accounting for transactions of the method of calculated realization, so that this fear of the government is completely exaggerated here and with the support of the amendment by the ruling coalition, you will really confirm that you are doing more than you wanted the Prime Minister to receive one applause at the trade fair. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u63	Thank you, Mr. Squeakle. Mr. Friday Milan.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u64	Thank you, President. So, I am one of those who have experienced changes for 30 years, additions to a systemic or slightly less systemic solution in the field of burden or burden of services, and I myself have been many times the one who was angry or begging the country that introduced the VAT system before the service was paid. By realizing that it was the problems of the State, which must ensure a regular flow of funds. Unfortunately, even in the past, I must admit, she could not arrange payment discipline with other instruments, as well as the current government, at least so far in that year, she could not do so, and, as it seems, she will not be able to do so in the future. It is sad that it is those payers who are actually recipients of public finances, whether they are ministries, or whether they are institutions financed by public finances, that are in large breach of payment deadlines, that do not pay. This is a particular problem in construction when large investments are not paid in time or are paid in marked delays. Such large operators bring these, of course, unpaid obligations to small ones, in which case the government wanted, if I understand correctly, to satisfy small and medium-sized enterprises. Although objectively limiting the value to 50 million does not satisfy medium-sized and small enterprises, it tries to flatter a certain population represented by entrepreneurs or micro-enterprises. Why they do this is clear to every layman. Because the electoral votes are also important to these populations. Unfortunately, I do not think that this is a systemic measure, I would say, one sporadic small measure that does not bring any positive shift in our tax legislation and does not mean, of course, any stimulation or move towards realisation or improvement of the conditions for the economy. The government has repeatedly promised to change and improve the conditions for the economy by means of its actions, and has now had this option. It had it in such a way that it would therefore include in the concept of paid realization all legal entities, not only those limited to 50 million. Or, if it already considered that the liquidity gap in the state budget was too large to at least increase this value to some other reasonable, commercially interesting, in fact, commercially interesting heights which I think should not go below 100 million. She didn't do it. So she made some compromise, which I call a "distorted" compromise or a "distorted" move, which brings nothing. In particular, because the public finances clearly have a very good situation, the revenues are higher than they expected, so it is structurally possible to cut into a certain part of these revenues, to avoid these problems, which would result in the loss of liquidity, and therefore would be a systemic measure that would give all market players the opportunity to operate equally and equally under these conditions. That is why I am attaching myself to the amendment that we have tabled in the Liberal Democracy, realizing that, of course, it will probably not be accepted, because this coalition bond works in a coordinated manner. If not, amendments, even if they may not accept them, would say, in some way, an appeal, in some way, to the government, an invitation to the ruling coalition to, in accordance with the reform measures, act in such a way that it actually takes care to relieve the economy, but not that one part of the population will actually satisfy little for makeup and the rest remains unfulfilled. So, I propose and give my consent, or I attach myself to the amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u65	Thank you, Mr. Friday. Mr. Horvath. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u66	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Minister with fellow Members, distinguished fellow Members, fellow Members! In the New Slovenia Group we cannot support the amendments to 52.o, r.o. and so on. On the one hand, we are pleased that the applicant in some way attaches and welcomes the change in the value added tax also on the principle of paid realization. As already stated by the government representative today, the European Directive allows and allows for this. However, it makes it impossible for some, precisely this European directive, some of the proposals that are in the proposed amendments. In fact, we are committed to a coalition agreement because we have committed ourselves to preparing, arranging a more friendly, better environment for the development of especially smaller companies, and claim that we are going to meet these companies with the proposed amendment of the VAT law. These small companies are often located in a cooperative chain and then also in the payment chain, especially as regards service companies. As far as the payment of their services is concerned, they are somewhere in the last or the last section of this chain. By becoming an entrepreneur under this new law, I am sure that he will be accepted, be able to decide whether the VAT will be charged by invoiced or paid for realisation. However, I would like to say, in my words, that this law and the package of tax laws that we have on the table are not tax reform. The tax reform was last year and something very important had to be wrong with the new tax legislation adopted by the government in 2004. Too many experts and businessmen and interest groups, foreign citizens, are dissatisfied. The former Minister of Finance must certainly feel uneasy, especially when he looks at the 2005 statement form. While it is generally known that tax systems are becoming increasingly complex and opaque. The longer they're in effect, the more they hold it. That is why occasional tax reforms are needed. One of the main reasons for this is simplification and transparency. Slovenia may be a special feature of this. The last tax reform in 2004 seems to have given us a more complex and clearer tax system. It is quite general that it would be really good to adopt the tax system to simplify and make it clearer last year. The proposed novel is a step towards this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u67	Thank you, Mr. Horvath. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Gantar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u68	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Minister, co-workers and co-workers, and of course also respected viewers and viewers of the third television parliamentary programme! Of course, I support the amendment of the Liberal Democracy, because I think it is going in the direction that the government actually wanted to go to, but it has not yet had the courage to take this step. In order to move on to this idea and to make the work of the Slovenian economy actually easier by moving to a paid realization. Obviously, however, she does not accept these articles, nor has she proposed, has she accepted a small change to increase this limit from 50 million to 80 million, which would not be much more than it has been so far, but rather slightly better than ever. I certainly believe that I have expected bolder changes in this law in view of the criticism it has experienced - in some segments certainly justified - of the tax legislation adopted by 1.5.2004 before joining the European Union. In view of the criticisms of this legislation, in view of all that we have heard, the forecast, i.e. a larger and broader reform, we have expected the so-called big bang, which unfortunately gave rise to incriminalism or, as economists call it, dedualist change. Of course, I believe that this type of amendment, including our amendment if adopted, will not solve some problems, particularly in the area of payment discipline, possibly exacerbate them as an unintended consequence. But I trust the expert opinion of the Minister and the professional services, and I believe that these reluctances will not arise as a result, and, because I believe so, of course, I support our amendments and I suggest that you accept this amendment, or perhaps in some process, if possible, you can supplement it or amend it by at least increasing this limit value to which the value added tax is charged in a new way. In short, for this reason too, in order to come together to a new solution, I better support the LDS proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u69	Thank you, Mr. Gantar. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u70	Of course, now on the procedure, I hope that the government will also come forward, although apparently the government has decided at least on the order of the discussers not to discuss the amendments, so we regret such a decision by the government. However, since, of course, Mr Horvath's colleague mentioned something about this so-called tax reform, which was of course introduced last year, it would be correct to say that, of course, the law itself on amendments and additions to the value added tax law was not part of this reform, that this law was introduced in 1959 as part of the conditions for entry into the European Union and that, of course, this amendment of the law is in fact a relatively large, large system change in this law from value added tax. This systemic change is even more problematic because, after the introduction of value added tax in 1999, a whole series of sub-laws and other acts have been prepared to enable Slovenia to achieve one of the highest rates of tax efficiency in the value added tax and, of course, it is necessary to ask what the government is actually doing by introducing a new method of paid realization. We have said that we agree with it if the government has assessed that it has the ability in the tax administration to prepare the sub-laws, but obviously we will be in a situation that is classic whenever laws are adopted by means of an emergency procedure, that the government, once adopted, will try to introduce the law in some way with some sub-laws or even instructions from the tax administration. The tax reform itself in 2004 has had a key impact on the fact that, in this year, with the changes proposed mainly in the corporate income tax, we can say, to a certain extent, that we may even easily interfere with the system. I hope that the government will be able to explain why it decides to introduce the duality of the system in value added tax, why the tax on the income of legal persons greatly increases certain types of relief and why it even excludes a specific group of taxpayers from income tax. So the amendment we are proposing is the goal, as has been said. If you have already decided to introduce the duality of the system, then give this duality of the system to make it possible for everyone or raise the threshold so that we will truly capture small businesses as a whole and part of the medium-sized enterprises. This is the content of this regulation or such a way of regulating other legal systems, and of course this is not proposed by the government. As I have already said, the government even considered the proposal of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia to be simply unacceptable and since the government has decided that it is 50 million, it is only 50 million. So, again, I propose to the Members and Members of Parliament, particularly the ruling coalition, when we vote on this this this afternoon, to this evening, to support the proposed amendment and, of course, to allow the third reading to try and do something else with the border itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u71	Thank you, Mr. Squeakle. Mr. Veršnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u72	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr President, Mr Minister with fellow Members, distinguished colleagues. I want to make a call because again what should not be happening in the past is happening. I do not support the LDS proposal alone, because I believe that this party has been the one who has taken too little account of the opinion of both the economy and all the others affected. The European Union's legal order allows for the possibility of charging VAT on the basis of a paid realization, and certainly for some reason, this reason has not been taken into account so far. I think it is high time that this government listened to craftsmen, small entrepreneurs who, not only pressured the government, pressured us Members in sent offices to sue us for their status because the latter were in the chain, often threatened or at the risk of being threatened. This move has passed. It's not populism. It's gone according to a plan the government has made. The government has set up a group to deal with these issues and the results are here. I remember that many times respected colleagues started these questions in the same national assembly and asked when something would happen. Today, when we meet with amendments, it is said that these moves are populist, that they are quickly accepted, that the government is in a hurry, in short, I do not know when the right time is actually coming when everyone will be right to make some changes happen. I think that this government proposal needs to be supported, but I myself will reject the proposal proposed by the Liberal Democracy Club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u73	Thank you, Mr. Versnick. Mr. Testen, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u74	Thank you for your word. Nice to meet you again. As this debate has slowly spread to all tax laws, not just VAT, I would like to say the following. All tax laws introduce or provide additional relief to taxpayers. I have to say that I am even more concerned that the Ministry of Finance and the government will have a difficult budget, because if we look at all these laws, the benefits are relatively large. However, as for the 50 million, the limits to 50 million, my opinion is that this is very correct, especially for this reason, because they are covered by most of those taxpayers who have started their st.-is or minor d.o.o.- is out of the question and for them means any default or any payment also a major problem in cases where they have a buyer who pays them poorly. For this reason, I believe that the true debtors are covered, after all, only the number and volume of these debtors show that this is the right category. I believe that companies that are larger and have better capital bases can also transfer tax payments in a different way or after invoiced realization. Perhaps he would also mention that when the ministry offered 50 million as some kind of censorship, there was an immediate desire of 80, 100 to justify everything or to pay everyone on the basis of a paid realization, which I find to be unfair to the government and to the state budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u75	Thank you, Mr. Testen. Mr. Rezman, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u76	Thank you. I have already said before that I intend to support - and also my fellow Members - this bill. Now I would like to say why I won't be embarrassed if I don't respond to the mammy sirens so that everyone will be excused without exception to be able to choose this paid realization. First, it must be said that, and I think the data we are reading is correct that it was the first opportunity to do so, in 1999. She was late at the time, and there was no such proposal. The Directive does not require that either. The Directive allows for a derogation from the general principle for two cases. Therefore, in order to allow this for certain transactions or to enable this for certain categories of debtors, this seems quite logical. And this proposal is logical, and it follows. That's one reason I won't respond to the sirens. But another reason is that by the other numbers that have been transmitted to me, this is an important relief, an important part of our population that creates value. It's over 90% BC, and that's what I've been serviced with, and for half the companies, or 60,000 people, or 70% of those who are in debt. But that's not a marginal group. This is something that can mean an important shift for a large part of our population. And if I just stop at the third thing. Whether this 50 millionth limit is right or not, I don't know that. Probably nobody knows that. In any case, this is at least partly arbitrary, even if the government had proposed 45, I would probably have supported it, and if I had proposed 60, I would probably have supported it. What is the right measure is likely to show the history that is yet to happen and why any adjustments may have to be made.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u77	Thank you, Mr. Rezman. Mr. Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u78	Thank you very much again. Your Honor, I would really like to try a few words, a few words more to say to this amendment and to what would be good for all of us to do. Look, this law, like most tax laws, is of course a complex law. This means that when you adopt laws, you can never 100 percent and accurately anticipate all the effects of wanted, unwanted, wanted and unwanted, because the reality is too complex and the law may be, I would say, in a way, as far as possible, is simple and also an intervention into some complex reality. It is therefore right to monitor the laws, to watch what is going on, what works, what does not work, where the effects are opposite those we have expected and so on, when we achieve some other goals rather than those we wanted to achieve. And from this point of view, it is right to criticize and critically value all the tax legislation that has been adopted, and we do not have a dilemma in this regard. I myself remember that they were, although I did not participate too actively in this, because I had other areas, that this discussion was about whether the paid realization was appropriate or not, and I remember experts saying that in certain segments this could be an even greater payment non-discipline, because they will say, "I will not pay you anyway, because you do not have to pay the tax and therefore you can suffer a little more." I believe that this is not the case, and I believe that this will not be so, but it was the wrong assessment, that this level of mutual responsibility in the economy and commitment is generally higher. That is why we propose and support this idea that this whole economy is an economy on this model, and I note that Finland has such a model, but I believe that this model, although good, is not feasible, is not empirically feasible due to the problem of revenue, so we suggest that we check and raise this limit if not already in the third reading, if not already in this reading, with more than 50 million, this is, as has been said, an arbitrary limit, but this arbitration means that it is for entrepreneurs and craftsmen with one to two, the most three employees, taking into account salaries, material costs and so on. That we have here covered a commendable segment, but a very small segment and less than promised, but we could do more on the basis of what we know today. And, of course, I wonder, because of this highly diplomatic approach, whether you will not actually disappoint those you have promised them yourself that you will do more and better than the previous government. We believe that without any difficulty, if this limit could be raised higher, and that this would not expose the budget and budget revenues to too much risk, as the previous tax legislation adopted by 1.5.2004 had been, we must recognise that if I read the Minister of Finance's report correctly, it provided very stable and good tax revenues, which is good for the country, but, clearly, worse for taxpayers. If you think it's necessary [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] change I agree, let's change a little bit more than you think. [[..]] Therefore, once again, I support this amendment also in the light of the fact that in the third reading we can make an amendment that will set a higher and better limit on this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u79	Thank you, Mr. Gantar. Here you go, Mr. Bajc.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u80	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Gantar, I agree that this is arbitration, and every time we deal with or accept something, we arbitrate. At the moment or at the time of consideration of this proposal, the law on amendments and amendments to the law, as well as the amendment tabled by the Liberal Democracy, we are talking about some kind of arbitrariness and say whether it is 50 or 80 or so, as proposed by this amendment, that it is deleted completely and that everyone is paying for the paid realization. However, I emphasised when I also represented the position of the Group of Members, and I think that a colleague from DeSUS also mentioned that any arbitration or any border on the other hand has something to do with it. And given that so far existing legislation, which is full of mouths, how good it was, what we are changing and which we are improving the status, we have said that natural persons, small and micro-enterprises are changing things. So, so far they've had to pay for the invoiced situation, now it's said that, and I think the estimate was 3 to 4 billion, it was said, at 50 million or arbitration, 3 to 4 million is out of revenue in the budget. Probably because they would reach out with a larger limit or an arbitration rate of 80 or 100 million, it would be likely that this amount would increase significantly because those who operate with more funds are actually larger VAT payers and probably this would not be 3.4 million, but 10, 12. We're arbitrating again or we're thinking. I estimate that, at this point, the limit of 50 million is appropriate, as far as the time is right, I will say, implementation of this law, and I think that there are also reforms in the field of other legislation, but then it will be determined, and as regards the financial, budgetary and the impact of this law on taxpayers themselves, and it will potentially change this limit.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u81	Thank you, Mr. Baitz. Mr. Stab, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u82	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! That kind of protective thinking bothers me. I would call it old socialist thinking, protective thinking towards the country, as Mr Gantar put it. We are obliged to protect the economy and the economy had to pay taxes in advance to the State. The State, of course, was not interested in protecting the one who paid in advance in order to ensure that he would also get paid his service or product. Now the situation is changing and the approach should be precisely reversed, gradually such that there would be no restrictions at all and that, as in some other normal countries, the country would somehow protect the one who did the service or sold the product and this would not be paid within the time limit agreed on the account. I think we need to change our thinking completely. Protect an economy that can thus operate normally and pay taxes, and the country will also be able to operate. However, I understand that in the current situation there is a need for a transition that will show experience during this transitional period, but of course it is necessary to sanction, in an effective and practical manner, those non-payers who do not respect and do not yet have an orderly business morale. In this way, the country will solve this problem in the most appropriate and elegant way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u83	Thank you, Mr. Stebeth. Mr. Starman.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u84	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, I will not support this proposal because it is inconsistent with the Sixth Directive. Secondly, because of what we have seen and heard from the data, such a change as proposed in this amendment could amount to a loss of state revenues of more than 70 billion tolars, which is certainly uncontrollable and would be a question of how to drive. Third time. How to be feasible and replaced. Fourth time. I think that the number or 50 million to start is the right amount for an individual to decide on this tax system after a paid realization. It covers the group of small businesses that are obviously the weakest in the face of large systems and are difficult to defend, I think they are children who can grow into large businesses. I do not see any reason for this number to change in the coming years if there are any money options for this and it will also continue to show an interest in such a way of paying the tax. So I will not support this proposal, but I have already said before, it will probably have to be completed in the coming years or changed the number. I would like to say something else, these are minor changes to the so-called package of tax laws, which, I would very much like to move as quickly as possible on to more thorough changes. They give our taxpayers some additional, better opportunities or reliefs. However, I would like us to move forward as soon as possible or to start adopting the first acts with real tax reforms. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u85	Thank you, Mr. Starman. Mr. Squeakle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Allow us, of course, to say individual Members, but let's say bob beans. The criticism that when the value added tax was introduced, we did not allow two methods of calculated and paid realization shows a misunderstanding of the situation at the time. At the time we had a transport tax and one of the main purposes of introducing value added taxes was, of course, to reduce the grey economy, because the introduction of value added tax with, of course, entry, exit taxes, if you want necessity, of course, the issuance of invoices, so that you can charge exit and entry taxes, has significantly reduced the grey economy in Slovenia. This is also the main reason why in the countries of the European Union, taking into account all principles of good governance, if you want public expenditure, as well as the implementation of a good method or good tax systems, the European Union has led to the introduction of value added tax, as opposed to some other countries that are still in some form of transport tax, should this be a consumer tax or anything like that. So this simply needs to be remembered here, the calculated realization, as a method, was, of course, the only meaningful method at the time. That is why, of course, we say, and studies mainly by some experts who talk about it can, of course, quote them to you further in today's debate, say that this is not the right answer to reduce financial non-discipline. That's not the right answer. Let me tell you, of course, that what the government has told you is simple deception. 60,000 so-called entities with traffic of up to 50,000 also include 20,000 registered but dead d.o.o. And of course they include a series of s.p.'s, which are, tens of thousands of s.p.'s, which are registered just like that. This will, of course, affect a much smaller amount of the taxpayer. With regard to the protection of the economy, Mr Šteba, I fully agree with you and, of course, we should support this amendment, because you are really protecting the economy, with this economy in accordance with the liberal standard you give the right to choose, of course, the method of accounting. I said earlier, the main part of the economy, especially those that, as of 1 January, passes on to international standards of accounting, those who, of course, have external owners, will not choose these methods, because they will not have two methods of expression in the system and, I would say, special tax methods. So don't worry about it. Now he is concerned about the liquidity deficit and what Mr Starman said he is concerned about the state budget. If you are really concerned, Mr Starman, the state budget, let me tell you that this failure, I must correct you, it is not a loss of revenue, it is a liquidity loss of revenue, it is a delay of about two months and this liquidity outturn will return to the state budget. But if you are really worried about the loss of revenue, then of course I would advise you that you are much more conservative than the chairman of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy in taxes on legal persons' income. Since, in the case of corporate income tax, Mr Starman, in accordance with the abolition of two years or, if you want to be extended, or the introduction of a transitional provision to reduce the tax benefits imposed by the 2004 tax reform, it is simply consistent with the need for additional capital to be taxed in Slovenia in order to relieve work in order to eliminate the tax on paid salaries, this has an effect of approximately 50.60 billion, but not a liquidity but a real reduction in revenue in the national budget. I will not talk much about this, but when we discuss the tax on legal persons' incomes that this will at least, in our opinion, reduce about 50 billion of the state budget's revenues in 2006. Since the reduction or if you want to introduce a transitional provision is not included in the draft budget for 2006. That is why we say that we have some confusion in the tax area, in fact, because the system that was brought into existence at first in 1999 and in Slovenia as you know, we had three reforms, the first in 1990, 1991, when we introduced the income tax, the second in 1999, when we introduced the value added tax and the third, so-called, last year's reform, which is crucial to ensuring that we have good stable revenues so that we can introduce the euro on 1 January 2007 and this reform is now in some way disrupted by some confused corrections. Numbers, yes, because it may be funny, but I will also find it very funny when we find somewhere in September 2006 that there is a need for a budget rebalancing down because there will be no income from corporate income tax, from value added tax income and, of course, we know that for 20 billion, we will have a tax drop on wages paid. We don't know exactly what will happen to the income, because the income depends very much on how we vote tomorrow afternoon. So the situation in which we are is that we have some, in saying, "Janšev" the first attempt to correct the tax reform, yes, like those of the Marbles or the Robbers or the Gaspari or Drnovškov or the Kranjčev reform, because it is known, of course, the reform of Mr Kranjc and the reform of Mr Rope, but all of these were Kranjchev, Ropov, it is Janša's first tax reform that will create much confusion. This confusion will be very significant because it is exactly the opposite of what another Janša reform will do or, if you want, Damjan's reform, if you like it better, which says that we will be in the value added tax, that we will be in the corporate income tax, that we will end all possible exemptions of relief at income and everywhere, that is also the certainty of the system and introduce a single tax rate. Well, Mr. Starman said he was waiting for this real tax reform. I hope that we will never see it again, because we will already in 2006 to correct the mistakes that we will accept today and tomorrow, or the government will have much work to do to ensure that these corrections provide stable public finances. I have something else to say about this so-called last year's reform. I hope we all agree, and the Minister is here and on the Committee on Finance has said that this reform has provided a solid foundation for public financial movements. I agree that these foundations are even perhaps too solid, which in the end also resulted in a possible change in the political option in Slovenia, but do you know that if we take the euro more calmly because of this on 1 January 2007, it was a real reform and figures once and for all confirm that it is possible to do so. The figures for 2005, the Minister knows them well, confirms that for 60 billion more revenue than was planned, that the balance of the state budget could therefore be distributed for a variety of purposes of these 60 billion, and that these estimates were adopted in the balance sheet this July, according to data for nine months, likely to be exceeded. So we have a good public financial situation. Now you're making a mess. However, this confusion will result in the necessary corrections already in 2006. Now, just a quote from Mr. Velemer Bolet, the Economic Movement, October 2006, which tells everything. Tax on added value between a tomato horse and the difficulty of checking self-assurance. To simplify, the value added tax has been and is one of the most effective taxes we have in the Republic of Slovenia due to the system that Durs is the successor. It is a tax which is also fully respected and therefore says Mr Bole that it is illogical in some way to verify by these attempts of this government actually the introduction of wages and realisation and therefore in some way the self-evidentness of this tax is being verified. The value added tax is a good tax, ensures that those who are subcontractors get paid at least when they have to pay the tax, and that we have some system of entry and exit taxes and proper accounting. You are introducing a paid realization and, as economists say, as Mr Bole says, it is not necessary that this will have an impact on solving the problem of financial non-discipline. Therefore, we believe that the answer you have given or what the government is proposing is inappropriate. So I think it would make sense, however, to say this, on this occasion, that the tax reform in 1999 introduced a calculated reality for us to reduce the grey economy. We have achieved this and now you have made some moves that will go the other way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u87	Thank you, Mr. Squeakle. Mr. Friday, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u88	Thank you, Chairman. Looks like I'm gonna be talking in the back of my buddy Hwauc. So when I listen to the debate about the amendments that touch on the law as a whole, the question of what was the purpose of the legislator or the proposer that this law should have been brought forward in the first place. I understand that, for example, the European acquis requires us to sort things out in some way, but that does not mean that we have to adopt such a law as a matter of urgency. When we read the Government's explanation, which also called this necessity, it reads: "Because it is a proposal for a law that will prevent difficult remedial consequences for the functioning of the debate." When I listen to this debate and listen to the debate on the amendment, I do not actually see any serious consequences for the functioning of the country. Where this country is now affected by the urgency of this law, of course, it is one of the issues that will arise and I hope that Minister Bajuk will only come forward later and say something about it. When we speak and Members of the LDS justify this amendment, which we believe can introduce the principle of paid realization for all legal entities, this is exactly what Mr Stebe stressed in his thinking, even though I do not see where he saw these arguments for the claim that he was protecting the economy with this law. Such additions do not really protect the economy because, in fact, even payment discipline does not improve, nor does an important segment of economic taxpayers to pay the tax thus cover a small segment which, according to my assessment of the size of the business of 50 million, does it have any major problems at all. These are all small entrepreneurs, small s.p.s, who, in fact, expose these invoices to more individual users of these services and they are regular payers, so large already on the spot as says colleague Gantar and these are regular payers and we will not actually significantly improve this situation because you are not really needed. However, those economic fortunes, which are affected by whether they are medium or small or even large enterprises, of course, are not getting any improvement in this law, nor is their payment discipline improving. As I said before, this country, which is, of course, represented by either ministries or bodies in its composition, or those contracting authorities that are paying by public means, is more macho to these companies, is in breach of this legislation rather than actually doing everything to make this law, but other laws, including those on courts, on tax procedures, etc., enable the economy to operate better. For this reason, I do not see any real reason for us to adopt such a law with minimal corrections. Why does Mr. Squeakle call him "Janche's marriage"? Because it was given at some point at the Celje Fair, when the Prime Minister wanted to give a little flattery and achieve political applause and received it. So, there he said, I think Minister Bajuk didn't even know at the time that he was going to have to change the law later in order to meet the Prime Minister, who made a statement on one occasion. So today we have a law that is nonconsistent, non-systematic, that saves nothing, so we believe that it would be necessary to correct it, as our amendments foresee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u89	Thank you, Mr. Friday. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u90	Of course, if the government were willing to say something, it would be best to withdraw this law. It is interesting that, of course, it was the Slovenian economists who responded immediately and also said that this law would have this liquidity gap, but they note, of course, that Mr Bole in particular, that this law would actually have negative effects due to the introduction of the paid realisation, in the sense that it would increase the balance or increase the grey economy because it would, of course, be necessary to control what they are doing. The problem, of course, is that when one part of the debtors has another method, the method of paid realization, it is said that when in some ways it is not possible to easily cross all accounts, much more will have to be done to the extent that it has so far been for the larger debtors to control their business with the small debtors. And another information from this same study that confirms this, or an article that confirms what I said earlier when we introduced value added tax, we had the accrued realization immediately at the beginning of the introduction of this in the Slovenian system the state of unpaid liabilities of the circus 8% of all flows. This August, August 2005, the state of outstanding liabilities is four times less than or 1.8% of the point. We can, of course, go here in a way of a public bet, because of what you are about to do now, we will have a larger state of unpaid obligations in August 2006 and, of course, I would love to ask you, first of all, the government and the minister, next September, about this information and, of course, about the meaning of this "Janšev" law. I hope that the government will understand our warnings and that, of course, the government will simply withdraw this law from the procedure before the third reading, because this law does not solve anything, this law simply seemingly facilitates financial discipline, reduces financial non-discipline and, in fact, it will increase its responsibility and be borne by Mr President and, of course, by his Minister of Finance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u91	Thank you, Mr. Squeakle. Mr. Janc.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u92	Thank you very much, dear President, colleague, colleague. I don't know, so much as one polytein manure now on this story, and I don't think that's as bad as Mr. Squeakle has just explained. I think that this is a step forward, a step further from what Slovenian small companies are meeting in their business. Payment discipline is certainly a major Slovenian problem, and it will certainly be tomorrow when this law is passed. And last but not least, this limit that some of you want to increase to 80, 100 million. You have to stop it somewhere, you put a limit or it's 40 or it's 60 or 70, because the government has decided on 50 million, I think there's a simulation here, but why exactly 50 million, it's probably some number, some reasonable information that says, although you ask me, I would still have it, I'd certainly rather have 60 than 50, but I agree that this thing was well placed and that it makes sense, and that the action of the government, which will provide a further step for many Slovenian small businesses, is more likely to be able to survive these relatively, I will also say unfavourable payment conditions that they have, or discipline, and thus somehow operate effectively in favour of a small economy. After all, the government has committed itself to being more friendly to the Slovenian economy, especially to this small economy, and this is the measure by which the government could positively help a small economy that has such and different problems, especially in the case of s.p., d.o.o. And so on. In short, I see nothing wrong here and if this step will also financially withstand the liquidity of the budget itself is then certainly for Slovenian companies what we are talking about as a more friendly environment, this is one of those pieces of mosaic in this common story of a more friendly environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u93	Thank you, my friend Janz. Mr. Stebbe.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u94	Thank you very much. I responded to Mr Gantar's debate earlier. I've been called twice, maybe misunderstood. But, gentlemen, I have over 50 years and have been listening to smaller craftsmen and entrepreneurs about this problem, payment non-discipline and after the introduction of value added tax on the inadequacy of paying this tax in advance, when there is no real protection and no right measures at these events are very common when the service is not paid. And this practice and non-action in these decades has also led, among other things, to some companies demanding payment in advance, which is not the most common in the world. For example, when it is not possible for some to explain that we are municipalities, at least some, business payers and pay for services and matters within the time limits set. So we don't go into illiquidity and inability to pay. We know, however, and I do not want to cite cases that are very common, that the country has been accustomed, even deliberately not to pay large sums, even because of illiquidity, but also intentionally, only so that some operators can pay higher services with late interest. But that's not the topic today. I think that the expectations of these small craftsmen - I have had with such talks - were precisely this way and the promise - I was present at the opening of the fair in Celje, the Prime Minister was logically the latter to these demands. And here there is no doubt that it will be very welcome, with these, especially craftsmen and small entrepreneurs, and your debate that this will be exactly the opposite is, in my opinion, a diversion and pure demagogy.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u95	Thank you, Mr. Stebeth. Mr. Squeakle. Mr. Gantar, you will receive your word immediately after Mr. Squill, as you wish. Here you go, sir. We're going in order. [[...]] Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u96	First to Mr Janc briefly replicated and then to Mr Štebet. [[...]] Look, Mr Janc, I would agree with you if, of course, I did not have a study in my hands that speaks the opposite, which speaks the opposite. And it is interesting, of course, that this study is known to the professional colleagues of the Ministry of Finance, and this study and these studies were one of the grounds why we decided in 1999 to have a method of accounting for realisation. This study also discusses, of course, that if you want to control, you also have some opportunistic control costs. And now that you've released 50, 60 thousand, in ordering, committed to some other system, of course you'll have in the vast part of the system those, speaking quantitatively, pardonably, in those that are of course the greatest value and you'll have a problem controlling them. And so, of course, says the study that it is not clear what the opportunistic costs of controlling this will be. Therefore, of course, the true author, on the palm of his hand, that changing the specification of value added tax to taxation on the basis of the realisation paid is an important and not ordinary exception. Important and not the usual exception. The government accepts it following an emergency procedure, the government accepts it, it is said that in the year when the most critical year is before entry, before the euro is taken over, and therefore, of course, we feel that, as has already been said, this is not the right decision. And briefly, what Mr Štebe said, I quoted earlier, you may have overheard, the financial non-discipline has been reduced four times since the introduction of value added tax. Value added tax is a known method of reducing financial non-discipline, but of course it is not the only method. Now, if you want an urgent condition to reduce financial discipline, not a sufficient condition. A sufficient condition, Mr Štebe, is, of course, this, and of course, the Prime Minister should speak to craftsmen in order to provide additional resources for the good work of the courts, so as to ensure, of course, that, through the executions and the ongoing work of economic courts, in particular economic parts of the courts, financial non-discipline or protected small and medium-sized enterprises, particularly in disputes with large ones, will be reduced. But Mr Štebe, the ruling coalition rejected the proposals of the Supreme Court, which we have gathered with the opposition Members, at the time of the 2005 budget rebalancing and the 2006 and 2007 budget amendments. Rejected. You have refused to have additional resources at the Ljubljana and Maribor District Court, where we have the largest scale, to be able to hire 17 professional colleagues. These are the facts. We can look at the magnetograms, we can look at the votes on the finance committee where we've dealt with this, and you'll see that this is all rejected. So if your President, Mr Janša, promises what he promises, then I propose that he promises what is known in practice and in theory as the right method for reducing financial non-discipline. And the introduction of VAT has taken an important step, which has been necessary. A sufficient step is, of course, to do what Mr Sturm says, that even for this political commitment, as it is called, is politically responsible for reducing the backlog. The reduction in backlogs is crucially linked to whether you, as a ruling coalition, are prepared to provide additional funds to these courts. We will vote on this in ten days, fifteen days in this National Assembly, and then you will be able to vote accordingly to reduce financial non-discipline, but not by some populism law, which after analysis of experts does not give the right answer and means, again, I quote'significant and unusual exception'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u97	Thank you, Mr. Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u98	Thank you very much. In fact, I would like to reply and replicate to Mr Štebet, who, in my view, mentioned me by mistake in this second performance, and then replicated my speech twice, which I consider to be in particular time. All I'd say is that. First of all, it is clear that it is precisely what you are dealing with, Mr Štebe, with these changes, that we will help at least up to 50 million. These are small entrepreneurs, craftsmen who normally provide services and services that are paid on the spot if I do a bit of banalising; repair shoes, umbrellas, I don't know what and similar things, barbers, etc. Services, services in this original meaning of the word. These are usually prices of up to 50 million. To the extent that there is little more than that, realisation immediately reaches more than 50 million and they will not decide on this solution at all, because it means nothing to them the difference between the calculation of income and the payment before or after the paid realization, because it is the same. We understand each other. If we really want to help this, as you say, then at least we need to raise this limit if we do not fully eliminate it. At least raise this limit to a higher acceptable level if you want to fulfill the promise that has been made. It is not necessary, we have not given it, but we agree with it and we want it to do so if you say that there are no reasons and fears that this will not cause any other side effects. So much for that. Around taking care of the economy, I would just say that, in my opinion, economists, when they hear us talk about caring for the economy, are becoming slightly concerned. I think they'd rather see us leave them alone and not change every law every year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u99	Thank you. I ask, one of the Members and Members wishes to elaborate on Article 4 and the amendments of the Liberal Democracy. [[No, no, ……]] Then I ask, given that several times the government has been called on to explain, if any of the Members and Members object to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia giving an explanation or a supplementary explanation. Who's up for it? [[No, no, ……]] Then I give the Minister of Finance 10 minutes. Minister Bajuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u100	Thank you very much and thank you very much also to this national council to allow me to further explain certain things. First of all, I'd like to talk about the Sixth Directive. The Sixth Directive clearly provides, creates the possibility for Member States to change and apply a different criterion for certain transactions than for the day of invoices - for certain transactions. This is an entirely excluded possibility that this would be for everyone. So, as far as this is concerned, everything we have heard so far and related to the proposal is to introduce such a possibility for all, completely in violation of Article 10, paragraph 6, of the Sixth Directive. So, as far as the government's concerned, it's final. Then there is the possibility and the question opens, to where, and to which are the specific transactions for which we would create this possibility through this legislation. Well, that makes one decision. The government has proposed 50 million deals in the last 12 months because this covers 70% of the total, and at the same time causes liquidity outflows, which we estimate as much as possible between 5 and 8 billion. If we increase this, let's say, 80 billion, as was the proposal, this drop of judges out there somewhere between 8 billion and 11 billion. This government cannot propose precisely because of what I have repeatedly pointed out that, at this point in time, we cannot actually afford a high risk of any possible unforeseen loss of income and that is why this is our proposal. In fact, there will be these 50 million, 61,455 VAT-debtors generating liabilities of 44.9 billion, and if we take 60 days as an average, then this would cause such liquidity to fall out. What does that really mean? It means that the government is prepared to amend the rules of the game as they have been in force so far, in accordance with the options that the European Directives actually create for certain people and with them share the fate of the consequences of non-payment discipline to a certain extent. Does this in itself solve payment discipline? Certainly not! I would like to repeat here, as I have already mentioned many times before, and it is right that it goes to the Magnography of the National Assembly, but not only what committee, that the problem of payment non-discipline is common knowledge throughout Slovenia, was also a subject of great concern at the Ministry of Finance before we took responsibility on 3 December. A few months later, I was also aware of the efforts made by the Ministry of Finance in the previous period, and I must tell you that my predecessor Dr. Marble suggested that we do this, in the previous composition of the government, he proposed and wrote to his colleagues - there is documentation at the Ministry for this, so I was also informed later, it was not made public, at least I do not realize that it would ever be - and he wanted to do so. In fact, payment non-discipline should be said what is being stricken in Slovenia, in some way it is necessary to apply some systemic legislation from the obligation code on the law of pre-emption settlement, but unfortunately there was no obedience and the matter was abandoned. There was not enough political will to do this. What are we doing now? We already have a working group from the Ministry of Justice, in this area we are working, and we hope that in the near future we will also come up with one concrete proposal for amendments to our legislation, which will help us to actually reduce this payment discipline in Slovenia, which is indeed one of the things that still increases the risk to the private sector and, of course, nothing helps our global competitiveness. Is this then the final solution? Yes, of course not! However, we are convinced that, as much as this burden is on the shoulders of the country itself, this will also be a little greater than it is without any better systemic solution in this area. For the time being, this is one aid, direct assistance to those entrepreneurs who will be able to make up their minds. How many are there? It is not an expert who can set this today with some degree of precision, because there is no such precision, but we do know that this will be very helpful in particular and above all those who actually operate only within our borders, because we well know that, on the basis of the Sixth Directive, all those transactions going across our borders with the European Union countries, at least those decisions cannot apply because the global system in Europe requires this to go after the invoice date. So we cannot support this amendment for these two reasons. If we see that this is simply deleted, each border - we are in violation of the European Directive. However, if we lower it, we are creating too much of a risk that the government - and especially on my proposal as Minister of Finance - we are not prepared to take. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u101	Thank you. We still have an hour and 46 minutes left to deal with the third item at today's meeting. I ask Members and Members, does anyone else wish to make a statement within the time available, i.e. hours and 46 minutes? Comrade Squeakle, you have the floor. [[five minutes]] .
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u102	I thought you were giving me half an hour and 46 minutes. Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. In my last statement on value added tax, I would like to comment on what was said by the government. Mr Minister, we are aware of what the Sixth Directive says, so we say we can do it. Because what we are proposing to pay for realisation would apply in one way or another only to domestic transactions. And since Slovenia is known for approximately 70% of its gross domestic product or imports or exports, it is said to be in international trade [[We have about 68% exports, imports slightly less]] It is logical that we are still within these European directives. It is, of course, a matter of discussion then, with the representatives of the European Commission. The other thing I would like to comment on is the implementation of a minister who says that the government cannot afford 8 to 11 billion revenue reductions when the government is peacefully able to afford 70 billion incomes in the income law because it is being eliminated [[...]] [[Back-up advertising.]] Mr. Bajc, you can come forward and comment. 70 billion is out, and this is the final drawdown, not the payment of interest on bonds at the time of the maturity of these bonds, about 9 billion at the annual level. And when this government can afford with the provisions of the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons, a drop of about 50 billion per annum in 2006 and 2007. So we have a government that can't afford an additional 3 billion because 5 to 6 billion or between 5 and 8 billion can, but it can't afford 8 to 11 billion. And this same government, of course, says that it is therefore necessary to oppose all amendments, both our amendment and the amendment, which by the Chamber of Commerce wanted to raise the border to 80,000 tolars. And the last thought of what Mr. Minister has explained about this financial non-discipline. Mr Marble has indeed written to himself in many ways, and Mr Marble will say and may say why he has not proposed a double system. Because this is not the way to respond to problems of financial non-discipline. That is why, in recent years, Mr Maramor has provided through the budget the level of funds required and actually drawn on by the courts, and therefore there has been a reduction in the backlog. That is why, of course, I would like, first of all, Mr Minister of Finance, instead of having to bring the Presidents' proposal into law, to consider whether this is really the most meaningful proposal of the law. Therefore, let him consider himself sovereignly and simply propose to rule this law withdraw from the procedure. However, it would be good for the Minister of Finance to say, of course, in this law, if we already accept it as a package linked to the state budget, that there is no decision in this law on how we will ensure in 2006 and 2007 a deficit of the state budget or a loss of income of at least 30 billion. Thus, of course, the government is primarily trying to solve the problem of financial non-discipline with the wrong method here, and the difference between Minister Bajuk and Minister Marble is that, of course, Minister Maramor has listened to some Slovenian economists, and the Minister has obviously not read it or does not want to read it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u103	Thank you. The next is Member Joseph Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u104	Thank you very much, Mr President, honourable Members, honourable representatives of the government. Once again, I would like to say that the New Slovenia Group will not support these amendments, once again we must get used to respecting the European directives in your legislation. There's been a lot of debate, not even self-serving, but maybe mine will be in the next few moments. I would like to say a few words in defense to entrepreneurs who were at the international trade fair in Celje. I have been following this session for some time, although I have not been present this year, but I call it the holiday of Slovenian craft or the holiday of Slovenian small and medium-sized entrepreneurs and businesses and to report to the Prime Minister that he experienced a round of applause there and, on the other hand, you ignore this applause, you almost read it as if it had been carried out by mercenaries and thus ignore small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. We just can't afford it. I think that this government and this national assembly should carry small and medium-sized enterprises or entrepreneurs who "furgle" these companies on their hands. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u105	Thank you. Member Aloys Sok has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u106	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear fellow Members and Members! I have to say that when I listen to this debate when I look at the media, I find that we are really living in a strange country and that there is really some strange state of debt in this country. Today I read, say, in Finance - negative personality of the week as for weeks, Andrej Bajuk. And it says: in voting for the negative personality of the week, the majority was 65.68%, received by Finance Minister Andrej Bajuk, because only 60 laws were passed by the National Assembly from January to September, most of which were simply amendment, and only a handful of them were completely new. This is said to be a negative assessment for how many laws the National Assembly has passed and is the most negative person of the week. I don't know if you really only listen to you, Mr. Squeakle, or what's actually going on in this country. You say, Mr. Maramor, Minister Maramor has listened to some of the Slovenian economists, so you said. Indeed, he listened to some Slovenian economists, did not listen to craftsmen and small entrepreneurs. It is said that those who, in fact, will benefit most from this law, who tell this Slovenian public all the time, what is actually going on, that they have to pay value added tax when a business event occurs, not when they receive a real payment. You've had gentlemen from Liberal Democracy for so many years in power, you've made decisions about all of them, but you didn't want to listen to craftsmen and entrepreneurs who have constantly warned of this injustice, discrimination, actually deliberately destroying small businesses and crafts. You didn't want to do this! Now that the new authorities have done so, you say it sucks, that this is bad, that it has to be withdrawn from the procedure, and on the other hand you suggest that it goes to even greater sums and so on. So, basically, you don't know what your proposal is anymore: either it's a larger sum or it's not actually a debate about this law. In this way, some responsible opposition, I will say, does not act unless it wishes to generate a negative opinion in the public on all the measures currently being taken and proposed by the Slovenian government. But I was also at the Celje trade fair, and with this news announced there by the Prime Minister, I actually experienced that all the craftsmen and entrepreneurs present there were spontaneously applauding. No one has asked them to applaud this, but what has been announced and what the finance minister has now realized and proposed here in the National Assembly, this is what they have always expected, and your authority, ladies and gentlemen, has not realized this. True, you have listened to some economists and small craftsmen and small entrepreneurs were not interested in you, especially those big ones, you are able to talk about Jankovic every day [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u107	Comrade Sok, please, if you stick to the subject matter of the law. As long as you continue to do so, I'll take your word for it from the witness. Today we are not discussing the popularity of Mr or Dr. Bayuk, nor how we will increase this popularity. I suggest you leave this debate to some body of your client. But I'm asking you to stick to the content that's on the phone right now. You've already caused some replicas with your speech. I'm only going to let one replica, then I'm going to break this point.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u108	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. If you would hold to this counsel that you have given me now, how fine it would be to work in this national assembly! Now you've taken away some precious seconds from me, but whatever. Thank you very much, I will respect this warning, and I also hope that you, as chairman of this House, will follow this advice and I will be very happy. Let me finish. We will be very pleased to support this bill, and we will oppose the amendments proposed by the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u109	Thank you. There's a reploco with a colleague of mine, Squeakl, by giving the same warning. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u110	[[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] Mr President, in my replica, I will only talk about the law and not the popularity of the Minister of Finance. [[..]] I think that the key content of this law is, and what Mr Sok said would be the best way to synthesize: if you believe everything you said, then you are voting for our amendment. Because if you vote for our amendment, then you can be in third reading, we can write together as a legitimate proposal to propose a correction, an amendment to an amendment, and we can raise this limit to 80, 100 or 250 million, which is, say, the situation of some countries. Mr Sok, there may be 2 billion, but it is up to the Minister to propose some restrictions or changes in other laws in the meantime. What has been said, of course, is that there is an inadequate duality of the system. This duality of the system, as has already been said several times in this cited study, is mainly the case of private agricultural producers, as protruding but also very common exceptions, being joined by all small undertakings. Small and micro-soldiers. I must say that the majority of craftsmen and independent entrepreneurs who were at the Celje Fair did not know that the limit would be only 50 million. She did not know that the limit would be 50 million because otherwise the Chamber of Commerce would not have proposed a higher limit. So I suggest, Mr Sok, if you really want and believe what you have said, join our amendment tonight. This will create an opportunity for you to design an amendment and raise the border. Mr Minister says he has no room to raise the limit from 50 to 80 million because he does not have three additional billion, but he has 70 billion seats in another law to share funds. Therefore, of course, we believe that this law is an inadequate response to the reduction of financial non-discipline, in order to, of course, by introducing a change in our amendment, ensure this in some way if, of course, the government did all that Mr Janša did at this trade fair. Thus, some interim solution, which will in particular create many problems and, as Mr Bole, of course, has unduly increased the costs of controlling the debtors, especially the larger debtors, when they deal with other taxable, small-time debtors. I hope, Mr President, that I have remained within the content of the law and that I have not talked about the popularity of the Minister of Finance, because I hope that the National Assembly cannot really influence those who vote on the Finance website. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u111	Thank you for the debate. Since we have exhausted the list of additional entries to the word, I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote after the end of agenda item 6a. This concludes this agenda item. And we're moving on to 6. Period of the day - it's on a defensive proposal for a law on amendments to the bill on pay-out tax, on an urgent basis. In doing so, I inform you that the debate is scheduled to take place for two hours and 40 minutes. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I therefore give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation. Minister of Finance Dr. Bayuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. With the proposal for a bill amending the Law on the Tax on Wages paid, no later than 2009 it will stop charging and paying the tax on wages paid, which in the current system represents a considerable burden of work. There has been a great deal of talk in this national assembly in recent months. The proposed law's decision to reduce the rates of pay tax over a period of three years means that the taxation of salaries and thus the cost of work will be reduced for all salaries of more than 165 thousand dollars. Thus, in 2006, the rate of tax on paid wages will be reduced by 20%, by the first to 3%, by the age of 165 to 400 thousand, in the same class in 2007 to 2.3%, and then by 1.1% in 2008 and from 1.1.2009 onwards. As for the second class, over 400 thousand tolars to 750 thousand tolars, from now on 7.8% to 6.3%, in 2007 to 4.7%, in 2008 to 2.3% and none from 1.1.2009. As for the highest grade, over 750 thousand, from the current 14.8% in 2006 to 11.8%, in 2007 to 8.9%, in 2008 to 4.4%, and from 1.1.2009 to none. Therefore, following this proposal, the law on the gradual abolition of the pay tax in 2009 was based on the priority of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in order to ensure the financial macroeconomic conditions in force during the period when Slovenia is in ERM2 and takes over the euro within the period foreseen. We also estimate that this burden on labour costs will gradually increase the employability of highly skilled workers, which brings development and enhances the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy, while also ensuring conditions for employment growth and the preservation and creation of new jobs. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposes that this National Assembly support the proposal for a law amending the Law on Taxation on Remunerated Wages in the amended proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u113	Thank you, Minister Bayuk. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. I ask the chairman of the committee, Bojan Starman, to present the report of the committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u114	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! At the first meeting of the 10th urgent meeting on 17.11.2005, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on Finance and Monetary Policy considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the tax on paid salaries submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the national assembly for consideration and reception, proposing that the law submitted should be examined and adopted following an urgent procedure. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service, which examined the law submitted in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal order and the legislative and technical aspect and commented on Article 1 of the Act. On the basis of this comment, the Committee has drawn up and adopted the amendment set out below. The Committee was also given an opinion by the Commission of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia on the economy. The Committee was also assisted as additional materials by the amendment of the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club of 15.11 and the Social Democrats' Group of Members of the European Parliament of 15.11. The meetings were attended by representatives of the Ministry of Finance, who pointed out that the tax in question, which heavily burdens the taxpayer and reduces the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy, had already been extensively discussed and that the Ministry of Finance had decided to place such a proposal in the National Assembly to phase out the tax on salaries paid, without any further charging and payment since 2009. The debate focused on whether this tax, or whether this idea of abolishing the tax on paid salaries, could be implemented more quickly, following a faster procedure, but it was found that, above all, it was in terms of compensating the deficit, which is significant in the State budget - about 130 billion means this tax on paid salaries at the annual level - so that a 20% drop of about 25 billion dollars per year can be replaced and that is why we have adopted such a proposal as here with the amendment, which I mentioned earlier, that from 1.1.2009 the obligation to pay back is terminated. The Committee of the Other Amendments has not adopted the amendments of the House of Members of the Liberal Democracy and the Group of Members of the Social Democrats. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on both articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the text of the amended law, which also includes the adoption of the amendment, is prepared. This proposal forms part of this report. I propose that the National Assembly also approves this proposal on the proposed content and with an additional amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u115	Thank you for the report. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. We will first hear a presentation of the position of the SDS Group of Members. Member Dimitriy Kovacich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u116	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr Minister, Members and Members of Parliament. The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group will support the proposed law amending the law on taxation on paid salaries. The government coalition programme is geared towards reforms that will ensure the accelerated development of Slovenia in the future, at the same time allowing greater prosperity and higher standards for people. One of the measures taken to achieve the government's programme objectives is the decommissioning of the economy, resulting in planned development and increased competitiveness of the Slovenian economy. Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party therefore welcome the proposed amendments to the law, as their implementation will reduce labour costs, while at the same time encouraging employers to invest more in development research and employment of highly skilled workers will increase. However, the State will have to compensate for the loss of public financial revenue from the pay tax by reducing public expenditure and also by increasing other public financial revenues in a certain part. The rational result of the tax burden reduction brought about by the adoption of this law will also be the increased austerity of the country, because we believe that everything has been too wasteful and that its expenditure can be reduced in many ways without consequences for its efficiency and effectiveness. In many areas, the current government has also set itself a target of saving and appreciating its services. Some of the objectives in this direction have already been achieved, such as stickers and notary services, while others are still in preparation. The government's reduction project in public administration employees is also one of these plans. Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party note that the proposed law is one of those who reduce public burdens while at the same time promoting competitiveness and economic growth, so we will support the law. We also believe that this transitional period or transitional period of three years is just right for the transition to this system. And we believe that the proposal of one of the parliamentary groups to shorten this transitional time to one year is inadequate and means a rapid transition, which would mean too much burden and too much government revenue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u117	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the position of the Member Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Mag. Milan M. Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u118	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Secretary, Members and Members of Parliament! I will briefly present the position of the Liberal Democracy Club of Parliament. We'll support the marriage. We will support the law because we ourselves proposed this June a law on the termination of the tax on paid salaries and the rate of tax for 2006. This law, if adopted in June, July, would mean that Slovenia would significantly burden the economy at the time of taking over the euro. Members of the ruling coalition have rejected this proposal in the first reading of the law this summer; someone would say, with disgust, what does the opposition have to suggest reducing tax burdens! Well, it is interesting that after the government said in a written opinion followed by members of the ruling coalition that you cannot adopt this law, the same government proposed a practically identical law less than two weeks later. She suggested that a reduction in the tax on paid wages, which, by the way, is one of the basic postulates of the economic programme also by some political parties in this Parliament, is said to reduce the burden of work by abolishing the tax on paid salaries. However, due to its inadequate operation in the preparation of the 2005 budget rebalancing, and in particular through the preparation of the 2006 and 2007 expansion budgets, this government was unable to propose a substantively equal law on the termination of the 2006 salary tax and tax rate, but decided to even transfer this problem to the mandate of the next government. And that's why we have a law before us, which gradually, we would say, too gradually, slowly reduces the burden of the economy by tax on paid wages. We estimate that this tax could be abolished as early as 2007, if the government only acted more restrictively. We therefore propose an amendment to ensure that the pay tax is abolished within the next two years. By doing so, we are merely sharpening the responsibility of the government, which, if it is already talking about increasing the competitiveness of the economy, should also prove this by action. There are enough arguments to support this amendment. In Slovenian public finances, we have good revenue trends due to tax reform in 2004, and this allows this tax to be abolished by 2007. If the government took a little look at the data available, it would even find that, in the context of the 2005 budget rebalancing and implementation of the 2005 budget, even a lower limit of 165,000 tolars could be possible, a limit raised from 2004 to 2005 by more than 30,000 to raise that threshold by the end of 2005 and thus relieve the economy in 2005. And then, on the basis of good developments in 2005 and assuming that the government on the expenditure side is acting restrictively, effective savings could accelerate the reduction of the tax on paid wages. We hope that you will support the amendments and thus, as the ruling coalition, commit the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to support the words on promoting the competitiveness of the economy. We hope that in this way you will really support our amendment, but, as I said in the introduction, we will also support the abolition of the tax on paid salaries, if it is also gradual, in the final version with the support of the law alone, because we believe that this is the correct course of action of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, although it is not sufficient, if you want, binding, but at least the direction is right as opposed to some other tax laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u119	Thank you. We are moving on to a presentation on the position of the Socialist Group of Members. Ambassador Janko Weber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u120	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to the Minister and to my colleagues and colleagues. The amendment of the pay tax law is certainly one of the more interesting laws. Thus, the current amendment to the law under consideration has been considered in a way that reduces the costs of employers mainly to work in intensive industries where wages paid are relatively lower than in other activities. It is important, both in this law and in the case of pay taxes, that wage taxation is not subject to coordination with the European Union or European Union legislation. That is why it allows us, on the basis of a realistic assessment of the economic situation, to create the content of a law that will improve the competitiveness of Slovenian companies and, above all, allow us to make up for an unreasonable decision by the government not to help businesses in difficulty. An excuse for doing so has been given by the government in European regulations, which make it impossible, say, to double aid and similar solutions. And that there is no interest in solving firms in difficulty is also shown by the budget line, which, of course, does not have a single tolar in the budget. It is therefore also a great opportunity to reduce the tax on wages paid to enable businesses to cope with the crisis and to find appropriate capital and market measures, which, of course, will preserve their activities in the future. While the government proposes to reduce the tax on paid salaries in 2006, 2007 and 2008, for all salaries paid above 165 000 tolars. In our view, this is not an ambitious measure, and we have also proposed an amendment that increases the income thresholds of zero wage tax from 165 to 200,000 to 200 thousand. We are also proposing a gradual reduction in 2006 and 2007, but a definitive abolition of wage taxation in 2008. With this, we are confident that we will allow businesses to reduce their skills and, of course, increase their competitiveness mainly by working intensive industries. We will ensure the social security of workers, preserve many jobs and reduce unemployment in regions that already have the highest unemployment rates in the country. As a rule, these are also regions with major development problems. We believe that the financial consequences of increasing the threshold are significantly lower and more acceptable because we keep jobs, rather than sending the worker to the employment institution and then spending billions to help the unemployed and to find many others and often unfortunately ineffective measures to re-employment of the unemployed. That is why, of course, we want the amendment we tabled to this law to be adopted precisely because companies can realistically plan their development. The reality is that after 2008, this tax on paid wages is no longer available, which means, of course, that they can adapt their business policy to these starting points and achieve those standards that are simply necessary to manage the market and are competitive both in the domestic and foreign markets. Let us hope that there will be enough ambitious thinking among other colleagues and that this amendment will be supported and that we can indeed do something very good for the Slovenian economy, not for a short period of time, as the government proposes, but for a longer period.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u121	Thank you. We are moving on to a presentation on the position of the New Slovenia Group of Members. Member Martin Mikolitch, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u122	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister with fellow Members, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In the Parliamentary Group of New Slovenia - The Christian People's Party we will support the changes to the law, which gradually abolishes the tax on paid salaries. This is certainly one of the many important measures by which the Ministry of Finance or the Government wants to put the tax burden on the over-the-counter economy in the first place and thereby increase its competitiveness. Too high labour costs for a product or service pose a major problem for our companies, economic associations, to survive in an uncompromising competitive fight on a domestic or foreign market. Under the existing law, a tax was levied on salaries paid over 165 thousand dollars gross at three different rates according to gross wages. Today, those economic operators with a highly-educated human resources structure make the most of their contribution to the state treasury tax on paid salaries. For a wide range of employers, this tax also poses an additional financial obstacle to how to hire and also provide financial resources for the highly educated professional staff. Only the maximum added value of a product or service will bring us effective competitiveness on the market, and this will be achieved only by investing in development, innovation and adequate personnel. We know that around 125 billion tolars per year run into the state treasury tax, which means that this is one of the important items on the revenue side of the state budget. The Government's proposal to gradually reduce tax by 20% in 2006, 40% in 2007 and 70% in 2008, of course in 2005 in the New Slovenia Group, we fully support the planned amount of revenue shortfalls, as it will be possible to replace the reduction in public finances and the corresponding increase in other government revenues. Some 54 billion tolars will need to be replaced in 2006 and 2007. In the Parliamentary Group of New Slovenia - The Christian People's Party a few months ago, we rejected the proposal of the LDS Member Club to halve the tax in 2006 and in 2007 and now the LDS Club proposes the same or the same content of the amendment. I would like to say that in recent years you have had the opportunity to abolish this tax, as you now suggest, overnight. Perhaps you, as we like to say, did not come out of mathematics or did not think this measure was important to you, although it would probably have kept some jobs or some company, which is today because of all of us no longer known problems. However, we know that many of these companies also had a gross salary of over 110 or 165 thousand tolars. Measures in the field of tax legislation are aimed, as I have already mentioned, at decommissioning and increasing the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy. The measures are prepared to the extent that the lost revenue can be replaced by alternative resources. In the New Slovenia Group, we are convinced that the proposed solution to the gradual abolition of taxes on paid salaries will be a major incentive impulse for the economy. At the same time, this solution also provides a balanced budget for 2006 and 2007, which will be addressed in this National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u123	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group, Ambassador Bajc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u124	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Nice greeting to the representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues again. Also in this law, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia decided to phase out the tax rates and finally abolish the tax on paid salaries. This provides for a transitional period until the end of 2008. The Slovenian People's Party has always stressed that such a tax, at a very high level of income with social security contributions in our legal order, has no place and therefore the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to phase out this tax welcomes and supports. In particular, the Slovenian People's Party underlines the commitment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which it submitted under point 3 of the introduction to the proposal for amendments and additions to the law in question, namely that this tax on salaries paid from 2009 onwards will not be charged. Nevertheless, the Slovenian People's Party estimates that this tax should be abolished more quickly. Of course, we are fully aware that the abolition of such a tax, which represented 1.83% of the gross social product in 2004, is not, in particular, simple from the point of view of public financial revenues. Nevertheless, it is probably not quite easy to eliminate such an important tax source, which represented 4.63% of all tax sources in 2004, as fixed budgetary obligations are so high that they could jeopardise their funding. Of course, we would like to see this tax eliminated immediately, as it would save our economy 113 billion SIT, both public and private. The Slovenian People's Party estimates that the proposed amendment to the pay tax law represents a good compromise between wishes and financial possibilities. Above all, it is important that we partially burden the economy of this tax burden already in 2006. It is the fact that the government estimates that around SIT 54.4 billion in the financial years 2006 and 2007 will result in a budget deficit of around SIT 54.4 billion, which will thus remain for employers, and the Slovenian People's Party expects at least most of this savings in the economy to go to research and development and the opening of new jobs, which is also one of the government's intentions to change this law. If this is achieved, the Slovenian People's Party believes that the main purpose of the amendment of the law will also be achieved. On the basis of all of this, the members of the Slovenian People's Party's Group will be supported by amending and supplementing the Law on the Tax on Wages paid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u125	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the position of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. Comrade Bostian Zagorac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u126	Thank you for your word. Your Honors are here! The law before us has three characteristics. The first is that a person is difficult to oppose. Another is that it is one of the few laws we adopt in this reference and the EU does not tell us how to adopt it. And the third is that, as long as we adopt this law, there will be simply more resources left for employers to modernise and develop. What bothers me about the adoption of this law is that a similar law with a very similar name has already been discussed in this reference to the National Assembly and has not received support at that time. At that time, the government did not support the bill and opposed it because it was not possible to foresee a budget deficit. A few months later, this budget outage was found very quickly and we have it listed, 54.4 billion Slovenian tolars. So it's one of those ways of operating this government, which we've already gotten used to - not to - not to accept, but even if it's good, if it's another party's proposal, and doing something similar, if not the same, and then supporting, so that we can talk about who made such a law. Of course, the amendments proposed by the opposition parties are also worth considering. We will identify ourselves in the Slovenian National Party in the course of the debate on this law. As I have already said, one of the fundamental features of this law is that it simply cannot be opposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u127	Thank you. We continue to present the views of the groups of Members. The position of the DeSUS Group is to be presented. Ambassador Willy Rezman, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u128	Well, this marriage has a ten - year history, and perhaps now is the time to make an in-depth analysis [[but it's not]] in relation to the results: either for the budget, or for the pension fund, or for the labour-intensive sectors concerned, or for those sectors where there is a need for greater technological development, and so on. We believe that this law needs to be supported and we will also be supported by all votes, but we will say, in particular, about the individual amendments that have been tabled, including our views that will make this support conditional. Several amendments were tabled to the law. So it has already been said that the amendments to this law were foretold that they had been rejected once and that they were something that could be said to have been seen. The essential difference between what the government proposes and between the amendments presented is in the speed of implementation. The amendments of the LDS and the amendments of the Democratic Party are thus acts of accelerant amendments, and they want to accelerate this period to zero. For us, it is a very important question, not just for us, but for all the other things that will happen with relatively large resources in the future, whether the same savings will be paid to investment, whether they will be paid to investments in those sectors where it will be possible to provide more jobs, i.e. in labour intensive jobs, or in those where it will be invested in technology, perhaps even as a result of job cuts, or whether there will be a significant part of this even in increased and potential unnecessary consumption. We believe that about 30% of those under this law are essentially neutral, that those with a gross salary of up to 165,000 dollars do not gain anything, for the remaining 60% to 400,000 gross are positive effects, for the 10% of those with a gross salary of up to 750,000 are already significant changes by 2%, but those with over 750,000 tolars of gross wages are, perhaps, even extreme savings. This is also very important for the state budget, especially because it is more than 50 billion. These are not marginal amounts, but amounts that really need to be considered thoroughly. And the government has considered this by promising to make up for what now turns out to be a replacement by expanding the tax base. But we are worried about everything in order, I hope, whether it is those who seem to be neutral that the changes are up to 165,000 or up to 400,000 gross wages that will follow. If the effects of greater competitiveness and longer-term employment, in particular the employment of those who are higher and highly educated, this is worth supporting. For data suggests that all educational levels in some way in the structure of the unemployed have either stagnated or declined, except in the 7th and 8th stages, where the unemployment rate is dramatically increasing. If a large proportion of these funds are saved, thus diverted to the employment of these people, and I believe that many young people are barely studied here, then this will be given our support. We therefore support this with reservation to monitor how this will be achieved in the coming months and years, and we will probably be forced to propose any changes if this is not known to the highly educated staff in terms of greater employment.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u129	Thank you. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a second reading, which is to discuss the articles and amendments tabled, which I will lead on the basis of the amendment review of 22.11.2005, so I am putting to the debate Article 1 and both amendments. Who wants a word? Comrade Webber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u130	Thank you for your word. In my presentation of the position of the Socialist Group of Members, I have pointed out that this is a very important law that can really burden the Slovenian economy and, of course, enable it to perform more competitively in domestic and foreign markets. This is important because, in fact, we do not find other appropriate measures to try to monitor the problems and situations of the labour-intensive sectors in particular. At least so far, we have left this line of thumb in this mandate, as the new law on helping businesses in difficulty to restructure their activities has been even more difficult for us in this law, and the result is that the government does not actually plan resources to solve businesses in difficulty. That is why this law is extremely important for us to eliminate, for the first time, this unreasonable act and thinking, for the second time, because it is a law that we are not coordinating with the European Commissions and we can really shape our own I will say national policy on how we will burden our economic societies. In the amendment we are proposing, we are thinking about increasing the gross monthly salary threshold, to which the tax rate is zero, from 165, as proposed by the government, to 200,000 tolars. However, we propose that, for the next gross salary from 200,000 to 400 000 - that the tax rate is 2.4%, the government proposes a 3% rate here in 2006. In the range of gross wages from 400 000 to 750 thousand tolars, we propose a 5.1% rate in 2006 and the government proposes 6.3%, which means that we are somehow following the fact that we are trying to raise the threshold in the first phase and a little less burdening the next ranges of gross wages. We are aware that Slovenia is in this situation when we take over the euro, but it must take care of public finances and that it is not possible with some not sufficiently deliberate measures to cut too much into this system. Our proposal is, of course, to reduce this tax slightly in 2006 and 2007, in the first two years, as proposed by the government, but we are in favour of the view that this tax is no longer needed in 2008 and that the tax rate is zero. This, of course, allows businesses to shape their long-term policy, because, while we are still maintaining this tax in 2008, it may be that the government would also propose a change that would make this situation worse, so I think it is much more prudent to think about the long-term measure, that it is a measure that also allows very concrete negotiations with business partners in a particular company, that it can gain either new investors or, due to competitiveness, also win new markets and thus improve its position. Therefore, we believe that the amendment is much more developmental than the concept of government law itself, and because we also estimate that Slovenia still has an extremely stable financial position, we would like to see this tax rate lifted in 2008 not jeopardised by public finances in Slovenia. The fact that we need help mainly in the labour-intensive sectors is the fact that we are actually meeting this year from month to month, luckily not from week to week, but from month to month. A number of companies went bankrupt this year, and these bankruptcys caused a large number of unemployed, a new number of unemployed, individual municipalities. These numbers move around 100, 200 and 300 jobs are lost due to bankruptcy. And despite the fact that these companies and these municipalities visit both the Minister of Economy, the Minister of Labour, and the other departments that are supposed to be involved in the aid, they find that they do not actually have any mechanism to alleviate the hardship. Reducing the difficulty of the Ministry of Labour trying to create some programmes that would allow the unemployed to acquire either additional education or somehow be qualified to gain a job elsewhere, are usually linked to very long-term procedures, are also associated with high costs and often with an ineffective last phase in order to actually achieve employment. The biggest problem in this is that those who have been in the employment office for a long time also lose their interest in trying not least after a few years intensively to solve this problem of unemployment, because you lose contact with production, you lose contact with your colleagues, you withdraw from an environment where you have been active until yesterday, and this is a very big change for each individual or especially for a family that has, say, a bankruptcy company, both spouses are employed. Therefore, the abolition of the tax in 2008 is certainly cheaper than if we are trying to create some employment policy, which we can conclude at this point that there is not actually any regional employment policy on the basis of which we can also implement precisely certain and appropriate measures to tackle unemployment. Just because someone does not leave the company, does not leave the job, remains active and is not left behind from the Ministry of Labour’s misplaced activities, it is very important that we also try to maintain jobs by reducing the tax on paid wages, and, above all, as I have already said, a greater number of employees in jobs and thus maintain them in good relations with the employees, with the place and also with the environment where they create them. So much nicer, much more appropriate, I hope to say, even a much cheaper measure than tax evasion. As an example of what we can also experience in the coming days and weeks, it is also an example of the textile industry, which follows somehow the problems that are happening to the labour-intensive industries and the textile industry at the southern border, i.e. the most sensitive area of the state territory. Recently, the White Krajina suffered a bankruptcy that greatly affected the area. In the neighbouring region, Kočevski is also looking forward to the bankruptcy of Trikon, but it is interesting that this company needs only 28 million dollars to survive this winter period, which is also somehow the worst for textiles. However, it is not in the Ministry, which would provide these 28 million and save 150 jobs. This is the problem, which shows that the Ministry of Labour does not have effective job conservation mechanisms, that the Ministry of the Economy is proposing laws that do not allow businesses to be restructured in difficulty, and therefore it is extremely important that this law, which is before us today, is indeed adopted and implemented in practice. Of course, it is very important that, again, I emphasise, it is not 2006 and 2007 but we must think more in the long term that since 2008 this burden is simply not in our companies. This is an effective response to all or, above all, to the labour-intensive industries, that they can continue to plan their development and, lastly, also a message to many employees in these companies, that the state has not forgotten these industries and that they are concerned about their jobs, their existence, and also for the future development of Slovenia, which is to be one of the most successful in the circle of European countries. I therefore reiterate that this long-term measure is needed to abolish this tax and to allow many of those companies that are in difficulty today to mature into a greater perspective in the future and thus prove that Slovenia is a successful and important economic country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u131	Thank you. The word has magic. Milan M. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u132	In our amendment, we have explained the reasons why we believe that this amendment can be accepted. We believe that it is not true that the abolition of the tax on paid wages will result in a reduction of income by 130 billion, as the Chairman of the Committee on Finance has already said, but that these effects are only 80 billion, because internal accounting needs to be eliminated because it is 45 billion revenue from the public financial sector. Since the public financial sector represents expenditure in the state budget, the net effect on the state budget is only 80 billion or 80 billion, it is necessary to reduce the expenditure of the state budget in order to abolish the tax on paid salaries immediately. We propose that, as we have said in the introduction, the government is actually much more determined to speak out, because there are many words about increasing the competitiveness of the economy, taking a step immediately more boldly and abolishing this tax on paid wages within two years. None of us doubt that one of the major problems in the Slovenian economy is the burden mainly on the labour intensive industry, with taxes on paid wages and then also in the service sector, especially in the sector where wages are relatively high and also the burden of paying taxes on paid wages. It is necessary to say that the tax on paid wages had some history, that this history was based on the fact that in 1996 we reduced employers' contributions in order to accelerate economic growth and that this tax on paid salaries had to be replaced. When we froze the relationship between the euro rate and the tolar rate in 2004, it was time to speed up the reduction of the labour burden by tax on paid wages. You are aware that the first step was taken by the previous government when the lower limit, over which or, if you want, the threshold over which the tax on paid wages is charged rose to 165 thousand dollars. With the amendment, we believe that there would indeed be a certain amount of government revenue shortfall within two years, but this lack of public finances can be replaced by a slightly different position of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to individual solutions in other parts of today's and tomorrow's meeting of the tax laws under consideration. If the government had decided to join our amendment to abolish the denationalisation exemption, if the government had made a decision and, perhaps, slightly differently as envisaged, made changes in the corporate income tax, the tax on paid salaries could have been accelerated. A particular problem that we have if you do not accept this amendment that we do not really understand how you intend to support reformists' proposals as a ruling coalition in less than a bad year. Reformers are proposing even worse than we are proposing. We propose to abolish the tax on paid wages within two years and then, of course, to maintain the progression of income. Reformists, however, are proposing not only the abolition of taxes on paid salaries, they are proposing an immediate cessation of progress in income and therefore more than 100% increase in the taxation of those goods that are currently being charged with lower value added tax rates. We therefore believe that if this amendment were adopted, then in Slovenia in 2007 we could think mainly about how, with minor changes in the way Dr. Kranjec proposed, to accelerate the competitiveness of the economy and still maintain the fundamental principle of the tax system. This is, on the one hand, to maintain tax competitiveness and, on the other hand, to maintain the principle that everyone should contribute according to economic power to finance public functions. Since I asked the Prime Minister this question yesterday, I cannot help but comment on what he has said that we are very resourceful in the opposition to find ourselves more. In the opposition, it is very easy to act when the government proposes to reduce competitiveness in four years' pay and, on the other hand, the same government proposes not to say stupid, but certainly only for the richest tax solutions, which is the exemption from interest tax, while, as we will talk tomorrow about income tax or income tax, each of us is taxed to pay interest. Gentlemen of the ruling coalition, if you support this amendment, then we can avoid the hard and sharp measures of reformists. Since reformists say not only will this amendment be implemented in 2007, because they propose it as of 1 January 2007, they propose a single tax rate and the abolition of the tax on paid wages, but they say, in fact, that at the same time they will do so, they will make some other moves, and we very much need to tax or raise the lower threshold or the lower scale of the value added tax. The amendment is kind of short. However, if it is adopted, it will also make additional efforts if, of course, the Ministry of Finance wishes to do so. And this is to look at, in view of this year's developments in public finances, how to increase the competitiveness of the economy already in 2005. And perhaps with a very small change in the first sentence in the third sentence of this article, it would simply raise the lower limit from 165 to, say, 200,000 tolars, and this amendment would state that up to 200,000 tolars of this limit are zero and that, of course, this line is already in use in 2005. These are, of course, all possible variations if the government were ready and the government - and I think it is time for the government to know this - to know exactly its balance sheets, revenue trends by the end of the year and, above all, estimated expenditure by the end of the year. I think that these data should be made available to the government, especially the Ministry of Finance. Therefore, as a member of the ruling coalition, it is up to you, with the support of the amendment, to prevent much stronger proposals, the reformists' proposals, from being followed if you support the amendment, even though this is the amendment of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. We regret that your government has not been more courageous and that even within its mandate, it is said, by 2008, if this mandate continues until 2008, it has not been able to include all tax reliefs, but it has carried this forward to the first year of the next government's mandate. The amendment we are proposing believes that it supports the competitiveness of the economy immediately and more appropriately. The only solution in marriage, however, is a solution that, along with other solutions, is not really a dick, not a mouse. While the competitiveness of the economy is slightly increasing, as a result of the introduction of the paid realisation, it is likely that financial realisation - or at least the costs of checking wage realisation - will increase because, on the other hand, income creates major problems in the economy in the sense that, suddenly, the pressure on wages will increase because of the savings on workers will increase, and because, on the other hand, the corporate income tax will greatly increase the burden of all financial intermediaries, which will affect the increase in interest rates, we believe that the end result of all these changes in the law will actually be what we have said several times: these changes will be a disappointment for Slovenian taxpayers, the effects we all need, and these are stable public finances in 2006 and then in 2007, will not be worse. If our amendment and some other amendments related to other laws were adopted, we believe that we would maintain solid public finances, and we cannot judge this or talk about it very hard in 2006. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u133	Thank you. I give my word to Mr. Dimitri Kovacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u134	Thank you so much for saying that. In the debate on this amendment proposed by the Liberal Democracy, we listen to all possible criticisms at the expense of the government, at the expense of everything that the government has done. I doubt, however, that this amendment is prepared on a very serious and thoughtful basis, because it is very difficult to avoid the question, but what is this political group that now criticises everything that this government has done - although it says it will support the law, is at the same time critical of the whole debate - and what this group did when it was alone in power, when it could do so itself, but it did not do so. I think that this is a deliberate measure by the government, which has decided to abolish the tax on paid salaries, which has therefore done something that the previous government has not done. This was decided by this government and not by the previous government. Otherwise, I accept that there may be an opinion that this law could be even better in order to suggest a shorter transition period. However, I think it is right that things are thought-out and that this is a transitional period so long that it is actually possible to carry out everything during this period, so that some unforeseen revenue shortfalls can not occur and so on. All this debate, which is intended for the government to prepare this law earlier, when we proposed it months ago, and you rejected it, reminds me of the story of Christophe Columbus, who, after returning from the road, after he discovered the new continent and the court of Spain was reading to him, because it is nothing like what you did, because that could be what we could have done. And then on the case of Columbus' egg, he showed them that there was a difference between what you could do and what I did. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u135	Mr. Kovacic, although the story is very interesting, [[...]] [[Intermediate speaking.]] But please stick to the content that's ahead of us today. [[...]] Believe that the relationship that a party might have in the past cannot and will not affect the decisions on the individual amendments that we are currently discussing. Comrade Kovacic, please stick to the content of the amendments that are currently under discussion.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u136	Thank you very much. I stick to what has been said and nothing else in the debate. And of course, as far as this marriage and amendment are concerned, that's all I can say. In this case, too, the difference between what this government has done, so this government has decided to abolish the tax on paid salaries, unfortunately the previous government has not remembered it and has not accepted it, even though it could have done so, but has not done so. That government is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u137	I think you've used this government extremely often, and the previous government, and the fact is that we have amendments to decide on before us. We continue with the list of applicants. A replica? I ask you, Comrade Kovacic, did you name him? Then I advise you to apply to the debate when the time is right. However, Member Cyril Testen has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u138	Thank you for your word. Those of us who remember the discussions that we had had when this law, which was already proposed by the LDS Group of Members, found that the adoption of this law in 1996 was a mistake, and because of this, there was a lot of debate about how other tax revenues could be obtained, such as taxation of luxury and similar things, which did not happen because it was too complicated. As a result, it was most easy to impose a tax on paid salaries. This law was later amended many times, and it was often corrected mainly because of the difficulties faced by the labour - intensive industries and the need to find certain solutions or to offer certain reliefs to make it easier to survive. This was generally the case every year with those lowest rates changing or exempt from taxation. Today the issue is upside down. Although we are still partly talking about labour intensive industries, there is a problem in large wages, in those salaries which are taxed at higher rates, so that all the justifications arise mainly for this reason. Many times it has been mentioned today, Mr LDS said that it will be necessary to work on a balance in the coming year because tax revenues will be too low. At the same time, they are proposing additional reliefs that go in the direction of further reducing these tax revenues and simply do not understand their thinking because we feel that the basic objective is to harm the budget, to harm the government and to harm that coalition. I believe that the proposal made by the government to abolish this levy on paid salaries within three years or four periods is appropriate. In our parliamentary group, as Mr Mikolić has already said, we will support this law in such a form, and we will certainly oppose the amendments proposed by the LDS Club and the Social Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u139	Thank you. Member Martin Mikolić has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u140	Thank you very much. In the Parliamentary Group of New Slovenia, the amendment of the Social Democrats, as well as the amendment of the Club of Parliament of Liberal Democracy, will not be supported. However, I would like to say that it would also be appropriate, by the proposaler of the Liberal Democracy, to explain the amendment in the same way as it was written. Now I don't know if I have, I don't have the right, because the argument that the pay tax will be abolished within two years is not true. But you suggest that the tax be abolished after one year. This is an essential difference, and please, it is also right that all those who listen to us are properly informed, including what this means for the deficit in the state budget, which needs to be replaced. That is to say, in 2006 - 40 million and in 2007 - 80 million, if, of course, I have deducted those revenue that actually employees in the public sector need to be deducted, given that they will not have to be allocated to the State from the budget. I am very disturbed, but somehow we are not consistent in carrying out certain lectures here or some prophetic hints for the future. Once we explain what will happen in the future with this tax package, we explain, on the one hand, that a large income drop will be based on these measures that the government has prepared, and on the other hand, we want to implement these measures even more revolutionaryly or even more tax reliefs. Therefore, somehow I do not understand this consistency in interpreting certain arguments or certain content of the law or amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u141	Thank you. It is my duty only to warn you, as I said at the beginning of the second reading, that I am leading the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled on the basis of the amendment review of 22.11. And we are continuing the debate. Member Christian Janc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u142	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Minister, colleagues, colleagues! We are talking about this amendment proposal, we are talking about point 22.11.2005. I certainly support the additions to this law, as was the previous point when we talked about the country's more friendly attitude towards the economy, especially the smaller part of the Slovenian economy, that this is the continuation of this story. Gentlemen with the amendments are proposing something that I find unacceptable and inappropriate at this time. It just doesn't drink water. For it would be best to abolish this tax on 1.1.2000, that would be ideal. Who's against it? I don't think he's in this room. I'll be right with you. However, we know about some reality of the budget and the morality of the revenue of this budget. Not least in December, we will be adopting the 2006 budget, 2007. Will you also take into account colleagues and colleagues at that time in order to be more patient with the budget and with new and new concerns after placing new items in the 2006 and 2007 state budget? This kind gesture, which is a step and gradualness, which I think is real, objective and certainly difficult to expect among Slovenian employers, because this story is already being told and planned and will finally take effect. I think that many companies, many entrepreneurs and ultimately our employees will be happy. And this sequence is the right step, the right path, and I am happy to support it. However, these proposals, which, of course, have colleagues, are of course excellent, loving, populist, but unfortunately do not drink water, because it is somewhere to take enough to just suddenly "scan" all the taxes. It is best that all taxes be "scanslam", then we will be an ideal government, an ideal parliament, but from then on all the rest of the story, but I think it is necessary to be quite correct and understandable here on some of the things the government has prepared, which the Ministry has prepared, and because I believe that it has made some projection, that in 2006, 2007 and 2008 the budget will be the kind of one that both Members and the government want, and especially our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u143	Thank you. The word is Milan Squeakle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u144	Thank you very much. True, I wasn't talking about Columbus, but I was talking about reformists. And sometimes I feel like they really do work like Columbus - they go somewhere and they don't know exactly where they're going. That's why I suggested that the amendment we tabled, which in two years would have abolished the tax on paid wages and thus burdened the work, would have allowed you in the ruling coalition to restrict the reformists a little bit to tell them, go west and discover America! That's what reformers do. Many of you have debated - and I will just call you to say that there will be no repetition of this fear, Mr Testen, Mr Kovacic, Mr Mikolič - at the end of the day, even about how we are proposing an additional relief on one side, while at the same time reminding us of the public financial crisis. Look, gentlemen, let me tell you what the logic of this is, and I suggest you listen carefully so that you don't have to repeat it. We propose what you say, as the reformists say: it is necessary to relieve work and additional burden on capital. But what the Minister of Finance suggested, he suggested that we unload the capital, unload the richest. [[...]] [[Back-up advertising.]] The richest, yes, Mr. Ambassador! In addition, they have taxed the poorest or, if you want, those currently most burdened are in the most difficult tax situation, and these are employees in the small, medium-sized economy and especially in the processing industry. Since some measures, first of all by not allowing the acceleration of tax reductions on paid wages, do not increase the competitiveness of the processing industry sufficiently, but at the same time do not burden more capital, you simply run out of money. We therefore propose to accelerate the burden of work, but we do not support the burden of the richest, we do not support the introduction of a new rate of income and the decision to exclude beneficiaries of denationalisation bonds from the income system in order to exclude them from the system of payment of interest, thus saving at least 9 billion at an annual level or a total of 70 billion. In the case of corporate income tax, however, this government, which is talking about the need for capital to be burdened and the burden of work to be eased by decisions on corporate income tax, has eased capital mainly - we will look at which industries, we can also look very closely - let's say to this so-called service sector, for an additional about 50 billion tax exemptions, because it retains an effective tax rate of about 12%, as it was before the reform was introduced in 2004. And this 50 billion extra - of course it is, Minister, look at the data! Let your colleagues at Beethoven do this calculation, listen to them, I strongly recommend that you listen to them, because you have increased the relief and the effective tax rate, which is one of the lowest in Slovenia, will remain the same as it was in 2004, and you will see that in 2004 you had a tax deduction from the corporate income tax of 110 billion, and in 2005 you will have 160 billion. And that difference is 50 billion. You do have some kind of "finto", as I call it, because now even with some amendment, I just got it on the bench, you decided that some financial institutions will be eliminated, but that is irrelevant. What matters to you is that you've unloaded the capital further, and you're not burdening the work as quickly as you can. And I object to that. We deny that you are bowing up against the big capital owners against the richest in Slovenia because you want to relieve them of the interest tax and because you have unloaded the capital. And that is our opposition to these proposals. That is why we said that if this government really wanted to unload the work, then it would not have changed the corporate income tax, but would have come to this Parliament with a law on the abolition of the pay-off tax in one or more years. Mr Mikolitch said about this so-called, whether in two years or one year. Look, it depends on how you count. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia once said that it would do so in four years, 6, 7, 8, 9, and in fact it would do so in three years and one month, because 1.1 in 2009 there is simply no more taxes on paid salaries. The problem, of course, Mr Mikolić, is that in 2008, once it is called its mandate, this government will still have about a quarter of the resources under the payroll tax, and only in 2009, will the new government no longer have this resource. That's why I'm saying that she simply "burdened" in a narration to find savings of about cca. 30% of this tax or 20 billion of the next coalition, whoever and whenever it will be composed. Well, I don't doubt that if you're going to successfully worship the richest so that you won't succeed in the next election. We just don't know what the result will be. I think our proposals are very consistent and consistent with what we have been committed to. Mr. Kovacic said earlier, "Where have you been?" Look, Mr Kovacič, let me explain to you that the signed social agreement for 2005 had two key assumptions and on its basis we had in 2005, with the exception of this sentence, which we will have now, relatively peaceful year, the year in which the results of the good and public finances base are solid, and this is that we have reduced the burden of the poorest by raising the threshold or by reducing the burden because the new threshold has been raised and because we raised the threshold of 130 to 165 thousand tolars for the taxes paid. As a result, in the 2005 budget, when it was drawn up in 2003, 35 billion savings were made as a result of the loss of these resources. Mr Testen said that in 1996 it was a mistake. Of course, I can only tell you this and look at the magnetograms that the Members of your predecessors and some of the customers here have, of course, rejected another proposal, namely a proposal for taxation of luxury goods, cars and so on. That was against it. We have proposed a so-called motor vehicle tax that would essentially compensate for the retirement tax, which was necessary to accelerate economic growth from 1996 onwards, and of course this is confirmed by data. Therefore, a tax on paid wages was imposed because it was not adopted in this House and, of course, the opposition was the one who was very opposed at the time. We know what the ratio was in 1996, we know how the then coalition and the then coalition were formed, it is before the elections themselves in 1996 and after 1996. There was no will, there was no will in this House, so the wage tax, along with some other instruments at the time, was the right answer, the right response to take on value added tax and the introduction of value added tax in 1999, which then allowed further inflation to decrease, reduce the grey economy and all that we have already said this year. Therefore, I think that our amendment is fully in line with the philosophy of burdening work and increasing the burden of capital, which, of course, is the only thing that makes it possible for us to increase the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy. Your philosophy is different, it is simply to be subordinated to the richest and to worship in connotations to those who obviously play games from behind in Slovenian financial, capital and other markets. I think I've responded mainly to all the questions, but of course I'll be happy to hear your answers further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u145	Thank you. Member Kovacic has the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Now in this debate, Mr Squiel was said 90% of what is not the subject of the current debate on the amendment, but was not interrupted in the debate, but I will answer just a few questions. We have heard a very interesting thesis that the previous opposition was guilty of this or was unwilling and that, therefore, those ideas, those ideas of the then government, were not realized. Yes, it is strange that the opposition has prevented the ideas of the previous ruling suit from being realized. That's an interesting thought. And once again, all I'm saying is that there's a fundamental difference between what someone could do and what someone did. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u147	Member Boyan Starman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u148	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! I support both articles of the bill amending the law on taxation on paid wages. At this point, I think that this possibility, which has been given here to such an extent, is optimal that no greater scope is possible. I reject the amendments and consider them unrealistic. I had the opportunity - without going back to the old governments and so on - to discuss two similar things at the two meetings of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. A month ago, we had 270 amendments to increase the state budget; if we did, they amounted to over 100 billion. Today, or at the last meeting of the Committee, we have witnessed the second hundredth proposals to reduce the revenue of the State budget with additional incentives. I don't think it's normal for people who are practically proposing this at the same time to say it, and it's not possible to take these proposals into account, because they're completely pointless; I think that's perfectly clear to everyone. Once again, I support and hope that companies - and these are mostly highly-educated companies - will probably be more pervasive and advanced companies in Slovenia - correctly apply this tax exemption, this reduction in costs, and these funds will primarily aim at increasing development activities and opening new jobs for these people mainly with higher education, because these companies will be the ones that will save the most. I think that this is one of the concrete precisely calculated costs for each company and, once again, I support this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u149	Thank you. The last one on the list of debaters so far is Mr Janko Weber. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u150	Thank you. I would like to answer some questions as to whether the amendment we tabled is serious or not serious. Once again, I would like to point out that we have thought very seriously about this amendment when we tabled it. I think the content is also very correct. It really allows for a reduction in the tax rate in the first two years and then the abolition of this tax in 2008. Each company planning its own development needs a year or two to establish an appropriate mechanism, which it then implements. However, the third year is certainly the one that is already essential for the start of the funds invested in development to be recovered as effectively as possible, so that it can carry out all the relevant procedures set out by the company. So thinking about the fact that only the content of the law presented by the Government is the only right measure that we can talk about is, of course, very questionable from this title, because we do not really know exactly how this effect of the law proposed by the Government will be measured in practice. If we had these explanations, then we could really talk today about the possibility of an amendment of the Social Democrats being something that fundamentally deviates from government policy. However, since there is no such explanation, it is unreasonable to speak of amendments that are not appropriate because they are being tabled by the Social Democrats and because they are supposed to have too much influence on public finances. Let me just remind you that at the moment when we are discussing the tax law on paid wages, the amendment of the coalition has already come to the table to the law on the income of legal persons, which is substantially different from what the government has written in its laws proposed in this tax package. It is also explained in this law that the budgetary deficit in the exemption from the tax on paid wages or in the reduction of the tax on paid salaries will be offset by a reduction in public financial expenditure. Okay. There were also stickers mentioned, which did not, therefore, help because of other measures that were then introduced; then by increasing other government revenues, we do not know which revenues will increase here, especially because we received an amendment that interferes with the public revenue that this source is intended to provide, and in particular by expanding the tax base for other types of duties. What other types of benefits? If the contents of the laws were much more reasoned, then I would understand such discussions, but I say that there is no basis for rejecting amendments in such a way that they are inadequate and why they have too much interference with public finances. I submit that, if we allow the reduction of taxes on paid salaries in 2006 and 2007 and this tax is no longer available in 2008, these consequences are exactly as manageable as the government proposes. The impact on companies is certainly significantly greater, as they can plan their development with much greater boldness in 2008 than is foreseen if they are still burdened with a certain rate of tax in 2008. I expect that if the amendment of the Social Democrats is already rejected, this rejection is significantly more substantiated than it has been so far, because we really believe that this amendment is significantly more ambitious, significantly more appropriate than if we carry a tax a year longer than it would certainly be necessary for public finances.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u151	Thank you. Member Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u152	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! First of all, I would also like to draw attention to the incoherence between the written proposal by the amendment proposed by the LDS MPs and during the oral explanation of this amendment. I still don't know if it's written or oral. Probably in writing, where the speeches about one year of the tax on paid wages were to be extinguished, this is 2007 and in oral explanation it has been repeatedly said that it is for two years, it is said to be nonconsistency. Indeed, in 1996 Slovenia introduced, I will say, a hidden tax on human capital with a so-called salary tax. Sitting on the salary is very easy, it says, is a very easy way to collect taxes and has a progressive rate. In general economic debates there is much talk about the meaning of human capital for development. The question, however, is that human capital should also be taxed. If the formation of human capital is subsidised by the State, such as free education, it is indeed a question of whether it would not make sense to return part of the human capital income to the State in the form of a tax. In principle, the tax imposed on human capital is possible, but in practice it is quite unusual. Our human capital tax, the pay-out tax, is highly disstimulating and increases the cost of high-paid work for businesses. Of course, it also has so-called allocative effects, as the country is thus significantly hampering the employment of workers with more human capital. In Novi Slovenija, we are very much in favour of the tax on paid salaries being abolished for employment and development reasons. The new law drafted by the Ministry of Finance and the Government has submitted to the National Assembly for adoption is going this way. I will support the proposed amendment of the law by the government, but of course I cannot support the proposed amendments, because they simply do not seriously propose how to compensate tax revenues with some other revenues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u153	Thank you. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the 6a vote. We move on to the 6th A-point of the agenda - REVELATION OF THE PROPOSAL OF AMENDMENTS AND SUPPORTS OF THE LEGAL REVENUE Tax Act - following an urgent procedure. With regard to this item of the agenda, three draft laws were tabled in the legislative procedure, namely the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Taxation of Legal Persons - second reading, EPA 162-IV, submitted by a group of Members with the first-signed mags for consideration by the National Assembly on 18.3.2005. Milan M. Squeak. Another time. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on corporate income tax by emergency procedure, EPA 512-IV submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the National Assembly on 21.10.2005. And the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons - second reading, EPA 508-IV, which was submitted by a group of Members with the first signed by Barbara Žgajner Tavš to the National Assembly on 21.10.2005 but earlier than the same law, was submitted by the Government. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy decided, in the course of its deliberations on those proposals, to deal with them in accordance with Rule 117, paragraph 3, of its Rules of Procedure. At the same time, he decided that the follow-up procedure in accordance with Rule 127 of the Rules of Procedure would lead on the basis of a proposal for a law submitted to the National Assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Rule 117 of the Rules of Procedure, in order to further explain the draft law, I call on all co-proposers of the bill, namely the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the representative of the group of Members with the first-signed mags. Milan M. Sziklom and Barbara Žgajner Tavš. I give the floor in the first place to the Minister of Finance. Representative of the government, Dr. Bayuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u154	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! The new Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons, following this special form, which we will be considering today on the basis of what has been concluded on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, contains the following key solutions. First of all, as regards amendments to the existing institutes. The provision shall be amended as to how long the taxable person must not change the tax period from seven years after the applicable law to five years. The period during which the debtor may cover the loss from the following five years over the next seven years shall be extended. The recognition of depreciation for tax purposes is regulated by the way that the total cost of depreciation is recognised as expenditure for tax purposes as well. Provisions concerning the non-recognition or recognition under certain conditions of depreciation of obsolete or used tangible assets derived from non-residents shall be deleted, thereby removing obstacles to which the debtors and the professional public have been alerted, as well as a group of experts led by Dr. Mark Kranjc. This eliminates situations where double taxation occurred, since certain revenues that have not been recognised in the past are thus exempt from the tax base, so they have already been taxed once, such as penalties. The second chapter is new solutions, in particular due to changes in the legislation governing accounting. Firstly, the taxation of differences is regulated; the tax base will be included within three years, which will result in new income accounting according to international accounting standards and modified, otherwise not fully published Slovenian accounting standards. Taxation of differences resulting from changes in accounting policies and error correction shall be determined. A new development aid is being introduced to invest in R & D. In the form of a reduction in the tax base for a certain percentage of certain investments, 20% and higher percentages of reduced bases are foreseen for the debtors in certain regions with a lower gross domestic product per capita than the national average, which will enter into force when the European Commission gives approval because it is State aid. For 2006 and 2007, relief for investment in equipment is increasing, with the exception of certain equipment from 10% to 20%. And what is very important is that the provision is also deleted that the debtor that enforces investment relief must not distribute profits. If it was distributed, it had tax implications in the past, following the legislation currently in force. Third time. The proposal is also coordinated with the European Merger Directive on the percentage of the minimum capital value of the company taken over, which must be held by the company after the replacement of the capital shares, in order to ensure that the shareholder who trades securities may benefit from the law of certain entitlements. Finally, transitional provisions. The debtors chosen in 2005 to distinguish their tax period from the calendar year are also committed to the non-removal of the selected five-year period, which is also more favourable for the debtors. Amortisation expenditure shall also be recognised as old or used tangible fixed assets acquired in 2005 from non-residents of connected persons and non-residents of persons not considered to be related. Tax losses incurred in 2000-2005 may be covered in the following seven tax periods following the period in which they occurred. Such a solution is more favourable for the debtors. Long-term deferred revenue for accepted tax support for the purchase of fixed assets and other fixed costs shall be considered in 2005 in a way that does not increase the tax base. The deletion of the conditions for non-distribution of profits for participation in profits shall be provisionally regulated so that, as from the date of application of this Act, the period within which profits should not have been allocated ceases to run. If the debtor enforces relief, there are no consequences if the debtor shares the profits, even if that period has not yet expired. The provision defining the payment of tax deductions from interest on loans leased by banks from other banks is deleted. In order to promote investment in research and development, which will increase the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy, while increasing interest in investing in the Slovenian economy in foreign investors, the proposal provides for a new or expanded form of development relief, which means a reduction in the tax base and consequently tax. In line with the proposed relief, the taxpayers who will invest in R & D will be able to reduce their tax base for a certain percentage of investment during the year of investment, but mostly at the level of the tax base. They will be able to transfer the unused part of the tax relief within five of the following tax periods. For all these reasons, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposes that the National Assembly adopt this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u155	Thank you. I ask both co-proposals of the so-called hybrid law whether they will participate in the presentation. Comrade Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u156	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Secretary, Members and Members of Parliament! The law that we are considering today is a hybrid, because it also includes amendments and additions to the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons, which we Members - including me as first-signed, colleague of Lahovnik, colleague of Slavinec, colleague of Cveto Zalokar Orazem, Mark Pavli and Paul Gantar - submitted to the hearing on 18 March 2005. I am pleased that after eight months the content of this law is included in the hybrid law, the law amending and supplementing the law on corporate income tax, because the content of the provisions of our proposal is necessary and consistent with the content of what was inherently those who are experts in the tax field. The law that we proposed in March is trying to solve the problem of inadequate application of the OECD Directive, namely the introduction of a tax evasion on banking institutions, into banking transactions. In its own justifications in the Rapporteur on pages 16, the Rapporteur number 19 of 23 March 2005 describes in more detail what the content of this Act is. The simplest is that in Slovenia there are domestic banks, banks that can be in debt either at home or abroad, but not with their mothers abroad, in a subordinate position. That is why we reasoned, Members of Parliament, that we have proposed that the actual taxpayer should pay the tax evasion in Slovenia on the basis of the legislative and objectively subordinated position that these are, in fact, domestic, Slovenian banks. Since we have an extremely complex, highly competitive position in the Slovenian banking system and, in fact, it is extremely difficult today to sell resources by means of more than EURO LIBOR plus 100 basis points, this meant that domestic Slovenian banks, those who naturally do not have their mothers abroad, would gradually be in a totally subordinate position. Of course, we said that the law that followed its intention of the OECD Directive wanted to tax foreign financial institutions in Slovenia in principle, but that is not feasible anywhere in the European Union and in Slovenia. Why is that? Because, of course, it is not possible in the single monetary area of the European Union to transfer additional taxation of a domestic tax system to a foreign financial institution in the competitiveness of individual institutions. Therefore, in March, we proposed a law that was substantively consistent with established European practice and the removal of the negative effects of the previously introduced Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons and Tax Retirement on the International Business of Domestic Banks. By the way, this meant, of course, that banks, which also own Slovenian countries, would therefore be a priority for this Slovenian country. We have proposed this law in order to re-enable interbank transactions by implementing this law and to establish an equal tax and consequently competitive position of banks in Slovenia, irrespective of ownership structure. Therefore, the main aim of the law was to eliminate the unequal situation of domestic banks, where it seems to take account of the facts in force in Slovenia. Let me, of course, tell the Ministry of Finance experts that nowhere in the European Union has this law been enforced in spite of the OECD Directive. The last country to try to introduce this was Germany, but after eight months, as in Slovenia, it abolished it. In our consideration at the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy itself, on the basis of the second reading, we also suspended the discussion with government representatives of the law on amendments and additions to the law on corporate income tax, the first reading, EPA 162-IV and the previous week hybrid content of the law have also been appropriately incorporated into the hybrid law. Therefore, as a proposaler, as the first-signed proposer, I am pleased that, in this part, we will adopt a law amending and supplementing the law on corporate income tax in a substantive manner. I will speak later as one of the representatives of the parliamentary groups about the other amendments or other additions to the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u157	Thank you. There is still a third co-proposer of the law ahead of us. Ambassador Barbara Žgeiner Tavš, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u158	Thank you so much for saying that. In fact, at the outset, I would like to express some kind of criticism that we are adopting such laws under urgent procedures. As the first to be signed in the amendment of the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons, I have also introduced laws and, within the framework of the Slovenian National Party, we have tabled the law on a regular basis. But because today this law is included in the so-called government or hybrid law, it is also right, so allow me to focus in this opening presentation as a co-proposer in fact only on the part which relates or which we have proposed in the Slovenian National Party. We have prepared a new law that comes primarily from a constitutional provision. Constitutional provisions that Slovenia is a social state. On the other hand, I believe that, in fact, everyone in this National Assembly wants a normal integration of people with disabilities into society. Employment is certainly one of the most important criteria in this area. Until the adoption of the law in force in the previous year, i.e. in 2004, disability companies were exempt from paying taxes. With the new legislation that disabled companies have classified as liable to pay 25% of the income tax, we have taken a clear step back in the Republic of Slovenia, despite the government seeking compensation in some others for the newly introduced reliefs. Disability companies operate at an entrepreneurial level, according to market law. From this point of view, in fact, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia could be attached, but another sentence or continuation of the sentence should be added. In the case of disabled companies, account must also be taken of the social note or the achievement of the social objective, for which the State must provide an appropriate policy for economic incentives in the operations of those companies. It is a specificity of both people and businesses. Therefore, it is essential to say that the compulsory payment of the disability tax is not a serious exercise in order to eliminate distortions of competition in the appearance of operators on the market. The Slovenian Government should also be aware that, due to the above-mentioned specification, disabled companies do not achieve comparable results with companies that do not essentially pursue a social objective, but tend to achieve only greater competitiveness and profit. Therefore, compensations are necessary, compensations to reduce the productivity of these companies on the market. Let me re-emphasize. The disability undertaking must, on the one hand, take into account the working capacity of persons with disabilities and, on the other hand, must act in accordance with the principles of the market and this is the compensation mentioned above. And because in the introduction to the Minister, I heard a sentence about why the government had actually tabled that law. This is basically about increasing the competitiveness of Slovenian companies. You know, 25% of the taxes paid by disabled companies are unfortunately not included in this framework. The abolition of this tax would allow those companies or those companies to perform more competitively and enter the market between Slovenian and foreign companies. And let me make one more point, I'm going to say, a ridiculous statement, as stated in the Government's opinion of 15.11.2005. The provision that disabled companies also belong to taxpayers for tax purposes constitutes a contribution to the more transparent operation of these companies and a reduction in the possibility of tax avoidance. Let me remind you that the status of a disabled company is granted to the company by the Ministry of Disability Care and it is sad if the same minister or government does not have an insight into the records and operations of these companies. Well, lastly, I must say that I am genuinely pleased that we have found a common language on the working body, despite all of this, at least for certain changes that we have proposed within the framework of the Slovenian National Party; that Minister Bajuk, despite the initial opposition, has turned on the green light for Article 2 of the novel of the Slovenian National Party Act, which is to clearly record the so-called disability purpose in the context of Article 52. With this, disability organisations, of which 15 have so far acquired representative status, which has been placed in a discriminatory position to date - with the amendment adopted, this discriminatory situation has been eliminated and I believe that this amendment, which has been written down in the amended proposal, will also help them to make business easier. I appeal once again, and as the first to be signed by the law or co-signatory, that you will also consider amendments, I believe that, to collect so much common sense and wisdom, and to follow, if not to the other, at least the social note that the Republic of Slovenia must have, and to support the amendments of the Slovenian National Party, which, lastly, is also following the objective of the law being introduced.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u159	Thank you. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. I ask the chairman of the Committee, Ambassador Bojan Starman, to present the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u160	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Respectable. At its 10th meeting on 16.11.2005, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on Finance and Monetary Policy considered the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on corporate income tax submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. At this meeting, the Committee considered the following item on the agenda as its mother's working body - dealing with proposals for laws under the third paragraph of Article 117 and Article 127 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly - it is said that we had a hybrid treatment. As a material for this item of the agenda, a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on corporate income tax was submitted to the Committee - the second dealing with EPA 162-IV with the first-signed mag. Milan M. Cviklom, a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on corporate income tax - the urgent procedure of EPA 512-IV of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on corporate income tax - second reading - EPA 508-IV of the proposers of the group of Members and Members with the first signed by Barbara Žgajner Tavš. The Committee was also provided with material, the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and the opinion of all interested parties involved in preparing for amendments to this Act. The Committee was invited to propose amendments from the Slovenian Insurance Association, the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, the Association of Investment Funds Companies and the Association of Securities Exchange Members. The Committee was also presented with amendments tabled by the following proponents: the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia of 15.11.2005, the Social Democrats' Group of Members, of 15.11.2005, of 14 June 2005 and the Slovenian Democratic Party of New Slovenia, of the Slovenian People's Party, of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners. At the time of its consideration of this item on the agenda, the Committee decided first, in accordance with Article 117(3) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, whether the draft laws would be dealt with under the same item on the agenda and adopted such a proposal. Furthermore, in accordance with Rule 127 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee decided at that meeting also on the basis of which one of the proposals for legislation would produce a validated draft law. The decision - and the conclusion - was to prepare a supplementary proposal for a law to be drawn up on the basis of a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on corporate income tax - was an urgent procedure submitted to the national assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The decision was because this proposal contained the most articles we could apply, and then we voted on the content of the other bills to be included in the draft law. Sections 1, 2 and 3 of the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Income of Legal Persons shall be inserted in the draft law, the second reading, the proposal of the group of Members and Members with the initial signed Milan Cvikl, and paragraphs 1 and 2 of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Income of Legal Persons of the Group of Members and Members with the first signed by Barbara Žgajner Tavš. On the basis of the joint proposal prepared, the Committee has thus carried out its consideration of all articles and amendments. Here I would point out four points from all three laws. One was previously explained by Mr Squikel, on the abolition of interest on interbank interest - this proposal was adopted. The discussion then also took place on the subject of taxation due to profits generated on the basis of revaluation, on the basis of the application of new accounting standards, in what way and how to tax this, which was then dealt with and adopted in an additional article of the coalition. Then we discussed additional rights for the debtors or the exemption for the disabled, as well as the proposal, how to change or increase the exemptions for those regions in Slovenia that are less developed. Following consideration of the amendments, the Committee adopted amendments to Articles 4, 10, 12 and 14 of the Parliamentary Groups of the Slovenian Democratic Party, New Slovenia, the Slovenian People's Party and the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. However, he did not accept the amendments of the Liberal Democracy Club to Article 4 and the amendments of the Social Democrats' Group of Members to Articles 10 and 14. When voting on the individual articles of the bill, the Committee adopted all the articles. In the light of the amendments adopted by the Committee, pursuant to Article 133, paragraph 1, a draft law which forms an integral part of this report and which includes all amendments is prepared. In order for the National Assembly to consider the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on corporate income tax after an emergency procedure at its 11th meeting, the Committee also decided, after the second consideration of the proposed law, to include in the agenda of this meeting a draft law, the applicant of which is the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia has thus decided to propose to the National Assembly that this proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on corporate income tax should also be included on agenda 11. [[EPA 512]] . As a result of the decisions taken by the Committee, the legislative procedure for the two draft amendments to the Law on the Income of Administrative Persons is a reasonable conclusion, and the following two decisions are also proposed: the proposal of the Law on the Complementation of the Law on the Income of Administrative Persons, the second reading, the EPA 162-IV, submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the Group of Members and Members with the first signed by Milan M. Zvikl, is not suitable for further consideration; and the conclusion that the proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Income of Legal Persons, the second reading, the EPA 508-IV, submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the Group of Members and Members with the first signed by Barbara Žgajner Tavš, is not suitable for further consideration. Both decisions are proposed for the National Assembly to decide upon the conclusion of the examination and adoption of amendments to the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u161	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The first is the presentation of the position of the parliamentary club of Liberal Democracy, Dr. Milan M. Cwickl, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u162	Mr President, Mr Minister, Members and Members of Parliament! The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax on the Income of Legal Persons is an important law. With the hybrid that we are dealing with today, in fact, in some ways we are improving certain things in this law with our left hand on the one hand and, on the other hand, because of the impact of this law on the entire tax system, we are actually breaking down or the government is destroying what it is building with our left hand. First of all, there is no doubt that the tax on the income of legal persons makes sense to invest in research and development and equipment, but, as the law itself states, it is only a delay in the payment of these allowances. Second. It is good that in this tax we will abolish tax evasion on interest, which weakens the competitive position of domestic banks and allows for an important advantage at home in Slovenia to foreign banks. This correction was acceptable to Dr. Kranjec’s professional group and was finally adopted into this hybrid law. The article is closed, meaning that the coalition will have to vote that, of course, there is no difference between domestic and foreign banks in the taxation of resources, and I am pleased. In fact, however, that is almost all that is to be commended in this law. This law is a new tax on bank reservations, which is particularly controversial that the government has decided, after 17 years, since 1988, when we started introducing real bank reserves at risk, that the government has decided that now in 2006, due to a completely random story related to the introduction of international accounting standards, it will also be taxed on a new high scale, after some data of 60 to 70 billion reservations, which means approx. 17 billion resources for the state. These reservations were made by Slovenian banks during the 15 years of the operation of Slovenia alone and are a unique income by nature, so it is particularly inappropriate that this new government decided to use this family silver in 2006, 2007 and in part 2008, and in this way, in fact, in the years after 2008, the new government left a poor legacy. I am asking all of you if the extent of the security in the robbery at the Housing Municipal Bank will not be sufficient, the branch of the large French bank of the SKB will cover the loss from the robbery. Normally that would be the burden of reservations. The government has decided to tax these reservations. I ask you what will be the burden on banks or banks, as in the case of the Vrhnika leather industry or in the case of Steklarna Rogaška, where, of course, they have become liable through the compulsory settlement of the owner, to cover the loss due to the losses of these two companies associated with reduced competitiveness at the burden of the reservations. The government has therefore decided to influence an important part of the resources in domestic banks with tax laws and thereby create uncertainty in the Slovenian banking system. Another important weakness of this law is that the government has decided to maintain a low effective tax rate in 2006 and 2007, despite its principled declaration that it is necessary to relieve work and burden capital. We do not understand how the government that proposes in 2006 to abolish tax reliefs will, at the same time, abolish all tax reliefs on the basis of the reform package in 2007. So we have at least a law, which, on the one hand, with the left hand, builds something, and then with the right hand, primarily because of the mutually incompatible measures proposed by the Ministry of Finance, with the measures proposed by the reformists of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, undermines the entire tax system. And in this sense, we do not think that the law, despite some good solutions, cannot be supported, because the law is only seemingly solving problems and will in particular have a very negative impact on the situation of thousands of debtors and Slovenian banks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u163	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the position of the Group of Members of the Social Democrats, Mr Janko Weber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u164	Thank you for saying that again. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on corporate income tax is certainly one of the most extensive and demanding measures in the field of tax legislation in this package that we are considering. At the same time, it must be said that Slovenia currently has no difficulties in meeting the conditions for taking over the euro. This is an extremely important starting point and therefore it is still so incomprehensible that it is stated in the explanation for the procedure itself for the adoption of this law, because it states that the law is imposed by an emergency procedure because it is a law that will prevent the difficult consequences of the functioning of the State. This explanation does not go well with me or in the Social Democrats we do not go along with the actual situation in the country, because we find that there are no problems at this point in time for us to adopt the most demanding project, taking over the euro during this period. It is true, however, that in a more precise analysis of the law, we find that there will indeed be difficult remedial effects on the functioning of the State when this law is adopted and, in particular, if adopted at a higher level, in the form set out in the Rapporteur. As long as this law has not yet been adopted, we can talk about having a stand-alone and national banking system in Slovenia, that we have investment funds that play an increasingly important role in the national stock exchange and are important investments for 350 000 shareholders, especially within these shareholders, also for KAD and SOD, which we have mentioned extremely frequently in recent times. So, in our opinion, this is a reckless and one-off decision that will have long-term implications for the functioning of the country. In fact, the government has found the basis for this in international accounting standards, which are supposed to be like the argument that some legal persons in Slovenia are additionally taxed, but of course are extremely important for our further successful development. As a result of the increase in the tax liability, the capital adequacy of banks will be reduced due to the taxation of bank reserves. And of course, there will be a capital mismatch between banks, which means that we are likely to be looking for additional capital abroad, but this capital will come to us under substantial favourable conditions, because the banks will not be eligible for capital. We cannot, of course, agree with this one short-term measure, where we are reducing the capital adequacy of banks, in order to meet the needs of the 2006 and 2007 budget, and then we will no longer wonder how we, as Slovenia, will ensure the adequacy of our banks. The increase in the tax base in the area of insurance is also extremely questionable. Insurance companies will receive a 7 billion outflow, as insurance technical provisions are being taxed. So, we tax something at a time when we face natural disasters every year, very large catches and, of course, we tax reservations that are specifically intended for extreme damage events. So we can talk again about a short-term measure that will tax these reservations, and in the long term, of course, we can talk about the systematic exhaustion of insurance companies. This impact can, of course, be replaced only by an increase in insurance premiums, which means that all insurers will pay higher premiums or that we will seek new owners of insurance companies from abroad. So here, too, it obviously opens up to foreign owners to enter our insurance companies, which are now extremely important and stable. Both the taxation of investment funds and the third measure, which is equally extremely affecting our capital market and also opens up a denationalisation hole to an even greater extent than today, of course, we cannot agree with such content of the law. Despite having some good solutions, these are extremely bad for the long-term existence and development of the country.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u165	Thank you. Following the presentation of the New Slovenia Group, Cyril Testen, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u166	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Messengers and Members! New Slovenia's Parliamentary Group - The Christian People's Party supports the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Taxation from the Income of Legal Persons. We also support the amendments adopted by the home finance committee. The proposed solutions are necessary in order to implement the EU Directive, to amend other tax laws and also to adopt European accounting rules that will apply from 1.1.2006 onwards and to promote further development. One of the most important changes is Article 4, which provides that, in determining the tax base or the recognition of the taxpayer's income and expenditure, the amounts representing differences due to changes in accounting policies and the corrections to the errors for which the net profit transferred is converted or other components of the capital are included in the tax base. On this basis, the single incomes of banks, insurance companies and investment funds will be taxed in particular. The revenue generated by the changed method of drawing up accounting reports must be included in the tax base in the three successive tax periods, at least 1/3 in the first period and the rest in the other two. Important relief for banks is the abolition of interbank taxation [[?]] interest. According to the data available to us, there were cca taxes during the first nine months of this year. 570 million, representing 760 million annually. This, in our view, is an important relief that will increase the competitiveness of our banks. The proposal also amends the tax period chosen by the debtor in accordance with his/her needs and cannot be amended for five years before it was seven. It is also very important to extend the possibility of covering the loss by reducing the tax base to 7 years. According to the proposal, it will be possible to take into account the total cost of depreciation as a tax expense if it is calculated up to the maximum amount calculated using the uniform time depreciation method and the maximum annual rate of depreciation established by law. In order to promote investment in research and development, which is intended to increase the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy and to increase interest in investment, the proposal provides for an extended form of development relief, which means a reduction in the tax base and also of the tax resulting in 20% for 2006 and 2007. It is also very interesting to see the so-called regional relief provided for up to 30% for those regions with a gross social product of up to 85% on average and 40% for those regions with gross social product below 85%. In our view, this proposal is somewhat problematic in terms of large differences occurring within individual statistical regions. Nevertheless, in the New Slovenia Group, we will support the bill, but we propose to find a solution for such cases in the future. As such a problematic example, I refer to the Court, which belongs to the highly developed statistical region of Goriška.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u167	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group, presented by Mr Josip Bajc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u168	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the Ministry! In the context of the package of amendments to tax legislation, which are also directly linked to the 2006 and 2007 draft budget, the government has also taken action to amend the Law on Taxation of Legal Persons. The proposal for a law extends, inter alia, tax incentives to promote research and development with a view to ensuring further economic development and allowing for greater competitiveness of the Slovenian economy. Even with special pleasure in the Slovenian People's Party, we support the additional increase in the benefits, the introduction of so-called regional reliefs. In view of the Slovenian People's Party's commitment to decentralisation of Slovenia and more coherent regional development, we believe that these provisions bring substantial changes and opportunities for the development of those parts of Slovenia which, for various reasons, are lagging behind some other parts of our country. The scheme for the implementation of regional relief is certainly also an opportunity to compensate for the urgency, but for some parts of Slovenia also unjustified orientations into more developed cohesion regions. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we would also like to draw attention to the provisions of the law governing the transition to international accounting standards. Certainly, the State should not give up on revenue that should have been included in the budget years ago, but it is necessary to bear in mind the fact that the legal system has allowed and permitted such evaluation. Therefore, we believe that the gradual integration of unrecovered capital gains into the tax base is the right decision, but we pay particular attention to the specific situation of investment companies, while stressing that in the event of an appropriate solution, we will also support any changes to the law under consideration. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we will, as we say, support the proposal for a law such as that adopted by the mother's working body.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u169	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the position of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. Ambassador Barbara Žgeiner Tavš, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u170	Once again, everyone has a very nice greeting! Well, under this law, I'm going to take another call. Allow for a short period of time on behalf of the Slovenian National Party Group. I will once again express my disappointment that we have reached the so-called hybrid law. Otherwise, certain changes proposed by the government are certainly welcome. This will also result in the decision of the Slovenian National Party whether to support or oppose the law. Well, at the outset, let me focus on the competitiveness of Slovenian companies, which is also one of the main objectives of why the government has introduced this law. I am convinced that, as I have said before, the government is so elastic or flexible that it will find such good will and propose or support those positive changes that are proposed in the framework of the amendments that we will accept or confirm in the debate itself. Allow me to focus here again on disabled people or disabled companies. Disability companies are in fact some kind of specifics, which, unfortunately, I will say, are operating under the company law. And I must say that the matter must not be so one-layered or look at the whole matter as one-layered from the point of view of competitiveness. The Constitution speaks of the need to look at the social rights of people and people with disabilities are certainly a category that deserves or should deserve the protection of the state. The European Convention on Human Rights also speaks of people with disabilities who deserve special protection. From this point of view, it is certainly reasonable to support the law which is today in the procedure, a law which, as I have already said, has supported the positive change of the Slovenian National Party. However, allow; we have proposed another amendment and we would like to include it in the so-called government hybrid law. This is a tax-paying disability company, 25% tax. The fact is that disabled companies do not generate high added value and that, in fact, any measure that imposes additional taxes on disabled companies may reduce the costs, in fact, allowing a competitive existence on the market and also preserving jobs. And I still have so much time to tell you another story. I am afraid that the proposal, unless the government adequately protects disabled companies, will also be abolished by abolishing 25% of the tax so that there will be more such stories in the Republic of Slovenia. The Maribor disability company employs more than 40% of the disabled who come from the wider Maribor region. In fact, the company is one of the few in Slovenia, which offers some of the more than 50 disabled people social security. Despite the management's claims that the company is doing well, there has been an increasing tendency to bankruptcy by local February and high government officials. Why? Because there is supposed to be, I will say, a specific trend of foreign capitalists, because this disabled company is at a very good location in Maribor, so respected colleagues and colleagues are entitled in the Slovenian National Party [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] - or we urge you to support positive legislation, which, of course, tends to protect people with disabilities. [[...]] We will support this law in the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u171	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the position of the DeSUS Group, Member Willi Rezman, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u172	Thank you very much. It will be a rather brief position and we can honestly say that for the sake of this, because we do not quite understand how to react. In fact, some things are already late and can no longer be fixed, while some are still in the air and we judge that they can still be accepted. But first, let me say that perhaps, although some things have already improved in recent days, even with what has been adopted on the Committee, it would certainly be much better if these laws were adopted more calmly. It was, I am not the first and not the only one who is embarrassed by the fact that five tax laws are adopted by emergency procedure, but we all know that these are laws that are difficult, which are complicated and which have long-term implications. And all we're going to do now is eventually get back to us with negative repression. So we regret that there is no more time to think, more opportunities to discuss, and probably more opportunities to accept any of what the opposition has mentioned and recommended. If we're going to separate things now. Let me first of all say that, of course, we have a lot of embarrassment in our parliamentary group when we should reject what ratings for those who are disabled, disabled. While we respect the opinion of the legislative and legal service, we also respect the position formulated by the Government, but we consider it necessary to have a special relationship, a special treatment for these groups and also for companies that enable them to participate in normal life. With regard to some other changes already mentioned by the predecessors in their discussions, supported by the DeSUS Group, such as the facilitation of investment in development, technology, the consideration of depreciation as a relief, as well as the fact that losses can be transferred to the coming tax periods if they cannot be remedied within one year. So the whole species is in the law of good proposals, and we support that. However, such proposals are also of a kind, which have been of particular financial industry today, of those who live on them every day, and which have a better view of their area, at least from the vast majority of Members and Members. We think that too many of these initiatives have been rejected. We do not think that the financial industry would be able to reduce costs, we do not think that they would be able to improve the way competitiveness works, etc. However, it is questionable whether we need to bend the screw to this extent in order to actually shout from their kind, as if we want to push them right to the ground. We are convinced that more discussion with them and more listening to their comments, which have been made and which have been adopted and proposed by other groups of Members in the form of amendments, unfortunately some have been rejected. Some of the amendments are still open, including those proposed by the opposition, and we estimate that there are such amendments among them, that they are indeed oppositional, that they are worthy of our support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u173	Thank you. A presentation of the SDS Group's position is yet to be made. Member of Parliament, Bojan Starman, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u174	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Respectable. The Slovenian Democratic Party will support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on corporate income tax. It will also support the amendments adopted by the Committee. We note that certain changes made by this amendment to the law improve the conditions for management mainly by reducing the investment base, including the possibility of dividing the settlement of losses into seven years and even a number of other alignments with the right order of the European Union. The whole range of issues is which are and will positively affect the competitive capacity of our economy. Of course, the taxation of interbank interest has also been abolished under these laws or in this law, which was also a rather meaningless law in force. I think that this is in terms of the competitive capacity of Slovenian banks in particular, that they are placed in the same position, that this is smart, and that it can affect the lower costs of capital. As regards the basics, or the taxation that arises, or would remain on the basis of the revaluation according to the new accounting standards, certain amendments to this law have also been adopted, which make this matter easier and will also be supported by members of the Social Democratic Party. Here is the dilemma of these so-called profits, which can also be fictitious. Of course, I personally think that taxation of some of the fictitious profits generated by the change in standards is necessary, but not sooner than these profits are being remunerated. I somehow can't understand it, and I would predict it would be wise for these taxes to be paid when these profits are being paid and we can't all be forgiven. Once again, the Slovenian Democratic Party will support the amendment of the committee it approved and the proposal for a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u175	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a second reading, which is to discuss individual amendments and articles of the amended bill. I will lead the debate on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled, of 22.11 this year, but I think that all Members have received a review of the amendments. We subsequently received the amendment to Article 6. I am putting to the debate Article 2a and the amendment to Article 2.a. Who wants a word? Barbara Žgeiner Tavš, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u176	Thank you very much again. In fact, I have already appealed to you, Members of Parliament and Members, and I believe that, even in the introductory two explanations, at least as much as I have described the issue in this area, which could be addressed by the adoption of this amendment. Allow me once again to explain that disabled companies pay 25% of the tax and that the disabled company, which by law is an economic company, is of particular importance, or social importance, as defined by the Employment Rehabilitation Act. Because in fact, it has to employ 40% of the disabled from all employees. It must operate on the market, provide its services, sell its products and be aligned with all companies and must also have certain tax exemptions or incentives to carry out its function with a purpose or purpose. This is primarily to ensure social standards. Disability companies are not subject to or should not be subject solely to capital interests, thus the 25% tax mentioned under the current legislation actually falls into a discriminatory position and cannot participate equally in the labour market or compete with other companies. Once again, this is a specificity of disabled companies where people with specific needs are employed. That is why I once again appeal to you, honourable Members and Members, and, of course, to the government to support this law, or amendment, which abolishes 25% of the tax on disabled companies. And let us, after all, we had this arrangement before the law on corporate income tax entered into force and companies were easier to operate. The fact that it is a more transparent business, or record of disabled companies, because they have to pay 25% of the tax is "lari fari". The Minister is the one who grants the company the status of a disabled company and the Minister is the one who has to have a hand and an eye on the business and, of course, also the payment of the taxes of these companies. That's how much I'd have. Once again, I hope that the government, as I have already said, is so flexible that it will introduce this positive change into the so-called hybrid law and help, or facilitate this battle in the competitiveness market also for disabled companies.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u177	Thank you, Mrs. Squires. Mr. Pache has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u178	Your Honors are here! The tax rate can also be seen as some kind of instrument, a government tax instrument to regulate, whether it encourages or blocks a certain economic operator on the market. And according to our assessment, or according to the assessment of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has unfortunately used this instrument in the past to the extent that it has, of course, prevented the development and success of such companies. This cannot, of course, be proud and must by no means become the practice of the Slovenian government in the use of tax instruments. On the other hand, it is necessary to mention that from this city, all together, as legislators and not least the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, should focus their tax policy on incentives, thus taking a positive approach within the framework of fiscal policy, to which the only competent branch of power and the legislator has a role at the moment when it decides on the proposals of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Therefore, given that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has not come alone with such a positive view of the use of financial or tax instruments, we call for the approval of the proposal of the Slovenian National Party and thus follow the coalition agreement signed between the coalition partners, as well as the end of the Republic of Slovenia, which still provides in its normative work that Slovenia is a social state. When we gained the views of the various market operators and the views of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, as well as of the professional public, in the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, the only serious argument at first was by the Government, why this should not have been, because the number of so-called disabled companies had grown rich and the status of disabled companies had begun to be exploited. However, as my predecessor, Ambassador Barbara Žgajner, had previously said, it is clear that the Ministry of the Interior assigns this status. So it is really not wise, to say the least, by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to point out that the number of disabled enterprises has grown in a negative direction, while the Ministry of the Interior shares this status. Therefore, according to the assessment or belief of the Slovenian National Party Group, it would make sense to adopt an amendment and to strengthen the granting of a status to a disabled company that, in the past, abuses of such status would not have occurred in the future. It would also make sense to apply tax policy in terms of incentives. I believe that, at the final stage, every Member of the State's Parliament and Member of the Council should be trying to do so. We therefore ask you to assist or support the amendment to Article 2.a. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u179	Thank you, Mr. Pechet. Mr. Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u180	Thank you for your word. Well, disability companies really play a very important role, not only because they employ, as prescribed in the law, 40% of people with disabilities in a business that has the status of a disabled company, but also because it has a very favourable impact on other companies who, due to market conditions, cannot maintain disabled persons in those jobs for which they may be the most qualified, but simply do not achieve those standards that are necessary for companies to be competitive. As a result, there are already some concessions for disabled companies, but we can all see that there are still major difficulties in the operation of companies with disabilities in order to compete successfully with other companies on the market. Thus, many times it may even happen that a disabled person may even have to give something of himself in this company to survive. It is not the purpose of this company to impose additional burden on the disabled, of course it is the purpose, at least I hope, of the countries, to further burden these companies and tax policy is certainly one of those that is the far most appropriate instrument for facilitating these companies. It is not up to you to apply for an invitation to tender annually, depending on the fact that you do not have known conditions until now when, say, the invitation to tender has been issued, but it is back to a long-term measure which, of course, allows business policy to be established in the company. So the importance of a disabled company is truly multiple, multi-layered, not only for the disabled themselves, but also for other companies, which, of course, can also employ a certain number of disabled people to relieve their production and achieve better results of course. So, on the basis of all the concerns raised by the legal and regulatory services, I believe that these additional reliefs are in no way interfering with our legal system in a way that, for example, distorts some market law, or even exceeds those rules that the European Union requires in order not to allow for any unfair competition or similar. Therefore, there will certainly be no unfair competition with disabled companies, even if this additional relief is accepted under this law and, of course, I will also undermine this amendment and we support such solutions in the Group of Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u181	Thank you, Mr. Weber. Mr. Friend has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u182	Thank you, Madam President, Your Honor, colleagues. Based on the fact that Slovenia is a social state, the basic preamble should be the employment of people with disabilities who are not at the back of the country. Of course, the abolition of such a tax obligation or the addition of such a tax obligation to disabled companies is not in line with common sense, as we know that it is also a social integration for disabled persons if they are employed, so if they work it is also a factor in particular. I come from a company where I used to work, these are Slovenian railways, which also have a disabled, disabled company. And I must state that if this company were not, many people would not have in fact a basic peace, a basis for mental stability, and they would feel alienated from society. So, if this is the case, then of course the current regime, which abolishes tax relief for disabled companies, is in no way appropriate, and would therefore appeal to fellow Members and Members to support our amendment, which speaks precisely of the fact that the debtor, who has the status of a disabled company, is in fact exempt from these tax exemptions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u183	Thank you, Mr. Friend. Mr. Squeakle has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u184	Mr President, if we can only find out procedurally first, I suppose there will be no open vote, although it is stated so and that there will be a final vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u185	Indeed, the chairman also said that there would be a final vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u186	Good.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u187	Half an hour after the conclusion of the discussion of the 6.a point.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u188	Look, of course, we would like to support Article 2a what was proposed by the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, we believe that this is actually in force in the law and we will explain other matters in the following articles. However, it would be very important for the government to clarify its position, given that it was somehow unclear on the Finance Committee whether or not the government supports it in this form, as it was now known, so that the discussion of the articles could be conducted on the basis of full information. I think it is right for the government to also make a statement on the amendment to Article 2.a. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u189	Thank you, Mr. Squeakle. Mr. Rezman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u190	Thank you. Well, I will repeat what I have said on behalf of the Group of Members, namely that we do not know how to be unfriendly to such initiatives, such proposals that make life easier for those who are handicapped. The Law on corporate income tax, according to this version is 1.c, has also been assessed by the government. And I have said that I understand what the legislative and legal service has written, what the government has written very largely, but I think that, as we have already done to one part of this Act 1.c, we should also be inclined to show favor to this amendment. It is simply that, I suppose, the benefit for disabled companies is significantly greater than would be the handicap for the budget if we did not have this tax, sorry if we had this tax. Since this loss, this budgetary impact cannot be significant, it is necessary to show favouritism to disabled companies and, apart from continuing to mention that it is of some particular importance, let us mention that we recommend positive discrimination when so much discrimination is said to be positive. In fact, we will only return the bonus that these organisations have already had. That is why I think it would be right if there were as many of us as possible who would support it, at least so much as to be one of the more who would reject it.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u191	Thank you, Mr. Rezman. Does anyone else want to discuss Article 2a and the amendment to this Article? If not, then we are going to discuss Article 4 and the amendment of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Here you go, Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u192	This article and the deletion of this article, if you support our amendment, is linked to ensuring that in Slovenia after we have abolished the tax withdrawal on interest for Slovenian domestic banks, including their respective solvency status. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has decided that as one of the few governments in Europe will propose the introduction of international accounting standards already in 2006, and the only government in Europe and probably also in the world that uses international accounting standards for tax returns. Theorists, practitioners and economists who know this area have responded quickly, and we have quite a few articles that show that this government, led by a minister who is obviously no longer here today, is actually using the methods envisaged by the new or the newly mentioned international accounting state, particularly as a step forward for collecting more taxes. We do not think it appropriate that, in 2006, when we move to a new accounting standard, we tax the volume of reservations we have made in Slovenia in the last seventeen years. Let me remind the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Members of the ruling coalition that in 2001 the situation was similar. At that time, the recapitalisation of capital was abolished and that government could be proposed similarly. We have some disposable income and let us tax this one-off income. However, for the Slovenian economic sector and for the Slovenian domestic financial sector, domestic banks, domestic financial institutions, it is much more important that we then kept the revalue as part of the capital, as the basis on which the trust and solvency of the Slovenian economic, financial sector are based, and therefore we believe that it is necessary to act as conservatively as possible this time that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not take advantage of the opportunity it offers, or the opportunity it has faced to introduce international accounting standards among the 25 European countries as the basis for tax returns, and that the government would not tax reservations that actually cover potential losses from unknown events. I have already spoken from this box about the need to ask those so-called safe owners at the Housing Municipal Bank at the SKB Bank, from which resources, if not from reservations, will the SKB bank cover the loss, to the extent that insurance is not high enough, and the answer is, of course, only one. This loss from the reservations would be covered. Now this government has been taxing these reservations since 1 January 2006 and, of course, there will be no adequate resources for this. We propose that the article be deleted by deleting an article on the tax base for changes in accounting policies, corrections to errors and revalued in order to simply delete this article because it is inappropriate to include in the tax base the net profit transferred. We think that the government here has gone along the path of expansionary fiscal policy, and that this government is in fact causing instability in the Slovenian financial system. It'd be kind of funny if you weren't tragic. The Slovenian banks will be limited in further development, the Slovenian financial institutions as well, and because at the same time they are ruling under the Income Act, of course we will talk more about this tomorrow, taxing interest, we will have two shocks in our opinion in the coming years. The first shock will be the shock, it is said, that people will be taking money from banks, because they simply will not want to give every fifth toll saved interest to Mr Janša, and to Mr Bajuk and the government at their disposal, and of course this will be linked to the fact that at the same time the volume of capital will be reduced, which will reduce the ability of the Slovenian financial system to promote economic growth. We believe that deleting Article 4 is a way to ensure that, of course, the ruling coalition, with the support of our amendment, would do something similar to what you proposed together, or even beyond us, under the so-called Article 14. The only difference is that in Article 14 of the Slovenian financial system we have several more prominent directors of companies who have hoped to reach you and convince you, with Slovenian banks, I suppose that is due to the political changes you have made, for example, because if it is not, we would, of course, replace the President of the Supervisory Board of the Association of Slovenian Banks, Mr Aljoš Tomaž, I would not doubt that he would not be sitting at today's meeting in the National Assembly and supporting the direction we are proposing here. So obviously, by rejecting this amendment, you will create quite a few problems in the Slovenian banking system and, as I said earlier, if we come together today with our left hand to end the tax evasion on interest, luckily we will no longer be able to submit amendments, with the right hand with the rejection of the amendment, which would end the overtaxation of reservations, we will in fact create negative effects for the Slovenian domestic financial system. I can't imagine how, on the basis of today's adopted amendment, pardon, today's adopted law, without the adoption of the amendment, the new leader of the privatisation group for the New Credit Bank Maribor will be able to find any serious buyer at all, because the key value of this bank is right in high reservations. As these reservations will be taxed because the state budget will spend them, it will, of course, be much less seized from the privatisation of state property. Otherwise, by the decision made by the government for the new 11th Article in Article 4 of the Law and by the non-confirmation of our amendment, the sale of the family silver held by Slovenia is decreasing the value of the State as owner in certain financial institutions. We hope you will support the amendment. If you do not, we will, of course, have, in the following year, the other problems that we discussed earlier in the VAT and, of course, the corporate income tax, and the salary paid tax, of course, due to legal persons' income tax decisions, a few problems in the Slovenian financial system. Mr Bajuk said at the meeting of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy that there should be no Member and Members' fear, they already know what they are doing. Of course, I have to say here, because of this effect, because there will be liquidity shock and because there will be solvency problems, there will be an increase in interest rates in the domestic banking system. And remember, the achievement of the so-called Maastricht criterion at interest rates is one of the conditions for us to take over or meet the conditions for taking over the euro in 2006. I have a feeling that the government doesn't know what it's doing, or that the fight for an additional 17 billion revenue, when you gave some other 70 billion in denationalisation or 29 billion in Mercator, is actually how you close holes in Slovenian public finances. This is a misfunction and consumption or, if you want, sells family silver to close holes in one year. Please reject this article and confirm our amendment to delete Article 4, which simply introduces the wrong basis for calculating the tax. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u193	Thank you, Mr. Squeakle. Anyone else want a word? Mr. Webber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u194	Thank you. I want to express my support for this amendment. We have already pointed out in the introduction that the law itself refers to the necessity of adopting this law because, otherwise, there will be difficult remedial consequences for the functioning of the State. Of course, these will not be the only ones if this law is not passed. It will be necessary to plan the 2006 and 2007 budget more realistically, and in particular to plan it in a way that preserves this situation when we talk about the fact that Slovenia currently has no financial problems and that its situation is indeed extremely good, especially compared to the other countries that have recently become members of the European Union and which are seeking to take over the euro as soon as possible. If this law is adopted as it is written, there will indeed be difficult remedial consequences for the functioning of the State. Both the banking system and the insurance system and investment companies are certainly one of the key elements for the successful development and operation of the country. There is absolutely no need for us to sell our assets cheaply and thus reduce the credibility of the Slovenian State, not least, compared with other countries or capital interests, when we discuss how and what measures should be taken to enable Slovenia to acquire some quality capital. If you are an unsettled interlocutor because you do not have adequate capital banks, this is a very bad starting point and is actually being used to make a profit for state treasury, for public finances, very small. And because this is a one-time action, it is the 2006 and 2007 budget period, although we do not know for 2007 what is going to happen in the area of public finances, but, today, what we want to do is to provide some billions, so that we can meet those narrow expectations that are sometimes bound to just one mandate, not to say, a year before some elections and so on. I think that all these solutions, which are enshrined in this law, would really apply, would be re-examined, and the deletion of Article 4 makes this possible. It provides for further analyses, of course, to consider how additional resources could actually be provided for all the commitments planned in the 2006 and 2007 budget. Unless, of course, this will be done, I repeat, I think that we can really talk about the difficult consequences for the functioning of the country, but this must certainly not be in our interest, at least not if we look at it in the long term, at the development of the Slovenian state, and we are particularly aware that the current situation is one that really allows us to play a relatively serious and important role in the international space. So the deletion of Article 4 is almost to be called, more than necessarily. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u195	Thank you, Mr. Webber. Anyone else want to discuss Article 4 and the amendment? Mr. Rezman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u196	I don't think it's necessary for him to speak very long and not to choose any dramatic words about how the collapse will take place, if what is proposed is not taken into account, but I think that in this law on corporate income tax, a number of unfortunate solutions have already been made to those we supported, so that they can, with the support of this amendment, only contribute to the improvement of this law. I will support the amendment, it is also supported by our Group of Members and we propose that it be supported by others and that we remedy some of the potential weaknesses arising from this if this article remains in law.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u197	Thank you, Mr. Rezman. Anybody else want to discuss this? Then we go to the debate on Article 10, because there was no amendment to Article 6, we apologize for the previous announcement, so I am opening the debate on Article 10 and on the two amendments, which was tabled by the Social Democrats' Group of Members, and the second amendment was tabled by the LDS Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Squeakle. Mr. Webber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u198	Thank you. We have also tabled an amendment to Article 10. We are talking about an article that is truly developmental and provides regional relief, which means that we are investing in development in those companies or that we are allowing investment in development in those companies that are based in areas where, of course, they are not creating a gross social product at the level that is on average measured in Slovenia. So it is an extremely important decision that these incentives are made in such areas in companies and that technological development is certainly what can help to make the Slovenian countryside, where 52% of all Slovenian people live, more successful, especially because it will be possible to employ people who have higher, higher or even higher education, which is possible and, of course, to exercise their knowledge successfully then in these companies, which are based in regions that do not achieve the average gross social product in Slovenia. Of course, this measure is highly questionable because of the simple fact that the government proposes that these incentives are only possible in 2006 and 2007. It's an extremely short period. The company's business policy, whether it chooses to develop technology, cannot be changed radically only in one or two years, and also, if you want to acquire a frame, you cannot acquire it because you will have these reliefs possible only in two years, but it is possible as long as it is a long-term measure. And also in our amendment, we propose not to limit this regional relief for 2006 and 2007, but that this is a systemic measure which, in the long run, creates business decisions for the company, in particular decisions aimed at the development and employment of highly educated staff. This is the measure which can certainly achieve this desired objective, which is enshrined in the interpretation of this Act, especially in the knowledge that these additional measures are necessary, these regional incentives can also be presented to the European Commission, negotiated for these measures, and I am sure that these negotiations cannot be conducted in a qualitative manner within one or two years, for each undertaking will therefore have to prepare its own programme, justify it and then try to successfully defend it before the European Commission. So the procedures are extremely difficult, which justifies the justification of the amendment, which we have tabled, not only for two years, but rather for talking about a systemic solution that will really mean a major shift in the Slovenian space. On the other hand, it is also clear that without development, without the incentives intended in this way, which are envisaged in this way, as set out in this law, it is really difficult to say that in Slovenia we will achieve a balanced, coherent regional development so that individual regions will have the opportunity to align their opportunities with other regions, because, say, motorways are taking place because they foresee development axes and similar measures that we are talking about. We forget, however, that the current system of regional organisation in Slovenia is, in fact, somehow adapted to the fact that a larger centre is trying to manage this statistical region, and that we also often lose real information about the situation in the region as a whole or in specific areas. The government will be able to determine for itself what region it is, within which it will then also try to approve or propose as some kind of development measure. It is therefore a very great responsibility that the government will have, and I say that, to the extent that this is just and only statistical development regions, this measure will, of course, be inadequate, too small and, above all, will not reach those areas that really need effective regional incentives. Let me just say that if we combine the information that we can get in the area of the White Krajina and that we can get in the area of Kočevska, where we are talking not least about the area where 50,000 people live, of course this area is not detected in the south of the eastern statistical region as an area with major development problems. However, if this area is, of course, defined as a region that needs special treatment, even through these tax incentives, this information is, of course, comparable or even worse than in the Pomur region. This is the region that we are talking about many times that really needs help and needs it, but unfortunately we forget that there are completely comparable areas in Slovenia, both on the surface and by the number of inhabitants, but not least with much more complex relief and other natural conditions, such as Pomurje, they do not meet these standards, so that the government decides that this is a region that needs special attention. Therefore, I would also like to draw particular attention to the fact that, of course, the government has to think very carefully about where it will implement these measures, particularly because these measures will then be effective. However, I would like the amendment that we have proposed to be truly adopted, because only a systemic long-term solution allows businesses to plan their technological development and I repeat that they can also adequately advocate this encouragement before the European Commission through quality-prepared technological development programmes. This is extremely difficult in one or two years and if the government may have in mind certain pre-determined companies already preparing for this measure, then of course it seems to me that such an approach is inappropriate and will certainly lead to an increase in regional differences in Slovenia and will not reduce them in any way. However, it may also be unfair competition, after all, within the framework of an approach which is open to the government to define these regions and, of course, I would also like to see any response to this issue, whether the government is already considering certain companies that will be able to prepare programmes for their technological development in a very short time in a way that will, of course, meet all the conditions that will need to be defended before the European Commission. If that is not the case, then of course I think this amendment is even more necessary, or necessary, for admission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u199	Thank you, Mr. Weber. Mr. Squeakle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u200	Thank you very much, Mr President, Members and Members. We have proposed an amendment with which the very simple number 20 would be replaced by the number 40, but this is not the case. It is about facilitating investment in R & D, I hope that you will accept this amendment to support the amendment, if indeed, Mr Minister of Finance, along with the Minister of Science and Higher Education, support investment in R & D. We have included this because, of course, we find it extremely difficult with other instruments proposed by the government to stimulate research and development, so it is best to simply double the R & D facilitation with a simplified instrument. By voting on this amendment, you will, of course, in some way either confirm or deny the intentions of the Minister of Finance and the Minister for Higher Education and Development. We regret that this proposal has not been adopted on the Committee, so of course we repeat it here today, and we believe that you will be able to support the increase in research and development. Why this type of relief, because the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has even appointed its Director of the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and former Deputy Mr Jožet Damjan, Mr Janez Šuštaršič, as so-called Mr Lisbon and Mr Lisbon, should provide the relevant tax instruments and this is such a tax instrument. We simply believe that the implementation of the Lisbon Strategy makes sense to increase the incentives for investing in research and development in Slovenia, but that these facilitations should be truly appropriate but not as low as the government itself has proposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u201	Thank you, Mr. Squeakle. Mr. Testen, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u202	Thank you for your word. I'll be very brief. The purpose of regional relief is provided for in this Article. What this amendment proposes, proposed by the Liberal Democracy, will virtually destroy the meaning of this Article in terms of regional relief. We understand and I understand the regional facilitation for R & D in the sense that this attracts new investors to those areas that are less developed. So, we are opposed to such a general amendment, which in fact gives relief to all investors throughout the territory of Slovenia, such a proposal completely loses its meaning that we do not agree with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u203	Thank you, Mr. Testen. Anybody else want to discuss this? No, no, no. Then, we turn to the debate on Article 14 and the three amendments to Article 14, which were tabled by the Group of Members of the Social Democrats, the Club of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia and the Third Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, New Slovenia, the Slovenian People's Party and DeSUS. Mr. Squeakle, please. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u204	I'll be very brief. I would suggest that, of course, these amendments are defended by the MPs of the ruling coalition because they have linked the amendments of the Liberal Democracy. However, the justification is, of course, the one that we have explained. I see that you are even more generous, so I suggest that Members of the ruling coalition defend this amendment, but I have no doubt that it will not be adopted in at least one form. Of course, this amendment is substantively reflecting what I said earlier that financial institutions are at least hoping to reach the ruling coalition, and the banking institutions are obviously so scared by changes in Slovenian economic life that they have not been able to fight for the fourth article we have proposed. I propose that the Members of the ruling coalition, which you have signed the same amendment, defend this as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u205	Thank you, Mr. Squeakle. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u206	Yeah, there's not gonna be any discussion, more of a joke. Those of us who have signed, we will vote on this, we will not defend this in particular now.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u207	Thank you for the brief discussion. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u208	I would suggest procedurally if the government could still say something about the amendments that we would not, as if we were, say, be in disgruntled.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u209	Anybody else want to discuss this? Does the government want a word on this? Mr. Weber raised his hand. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u210	Thank you. Well, I'm actually pleased that there's been another amendment tabled by the ruling coalition. Because the warnings we received from investment funds on the Finance Committee were really extremely serious about what will happen on the Slovenian capital market or what will happen to the bond market and similar securities that can be traded on the Slovenian stock exchange. The Slovenian stock exchange is already as sensitive and as it was planned in the basic law, it would question the existence of the stock exchange even more and thus make sense of all the measures we are taking in Slovenia to somehow join possible financial steps or measures to try to elevate funds, shares and similar things in a globally comparable way. In particular, I would point out here that it is also a very important influence on the Slovenian compensation company, which is also a shareholder in investment funds. And if we start to add up the amounts for which the Slovenian Compensation Society is deprived of its decisions, both in Mercator and in this case, due to additional taxes, the uncoordinated profits of investment funds, these amounts are extremely high, we are talking about tens of billions. And if we are aware that the Slovenian Compensation Society has a very large obligation to try to reduce the denationalisation hole, then such a measure, such a proposal as proposed in the basic text, is extremely difficult to understand. For the interest of the State must certainly be that this denationalisation hole, however, reduces the fact that it puts these obligations within a realistic framework, so that all those who truly expect something from it will also receive the resources they are expected to create through the operation of the Slovenian Compensation Society. It is far more unfavourable and very unfavourable, in fact, for public finances, insofar as Slovenia has to assume its denationalisation obligations directly from its budget. This measure, which is proposed here both by the LDS and by the coalition in the form of amendments, is much more appropriate than what was planned at the outset. Of course, the explanation for this amendment of the coalition is extremely short, but it is a fact that they are aware of the very difficult situation in which the investment funds will be placed under these additional taxes, and of course we do not get an answer either, of course, how the government will compensate for the loss of these revenues it has planned to balance this package of tax legislation, including the 2007 and 2007 budget. Here is an important issue that should certainly be explained more qualitatively or not to say very clearly, both by the government and, of course, by the proponents. In fact, even if Members and Members have decided to take into account the serious warnings of the investment funds, of course the government should also take a position on these amendments and say yes, we agree, but of course we will try to replace this loss of revenue with other sources. Which are your sources, of course, we don't know. We know, however, that we are thinking and that in certain areas of the budget we have closed obligations in the way that, in fact, some are extremely pleased that they do not have any comments on the budget at all, while others, of course, have to cover within their obligations certain decisions that have been taken in the coalition contract or otherwise detected in the field, do not have the right quality resources beyond those necessary for additional funds to be obtained in the budget. So that these questions, or answers to these questions, are not given in such an important package of legislation, because it is certainly not the right attitude of the applicants or, above all, the government, to the National Assembly, and, of course, I expect that we will get more information, more information and more reasonable reasons for and against, but not just for that reason, we will not support it because it was proposed by the positioning party, but if it is coalition we will support it. The reasons for and against, especially in that financial sense, of course, are always lacking here and this is what we miss in this debate. But, as I have said, we want to support the amendment of both Liberal Democracy and, if this is not accepted, the coalition as well. However, our amendment itself, which is tabled in Article 14, saves me to recall that two-year period, which in my opinion is really too short for regional relief to be implemented in enterprises, which then allocate these funds to development and, of course, by deleting it, is allowed to become a longer-term measure, not a two-year measure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u211	Thank you, Mr. Weber. Anyone else? I'm closing the debate. The amendments will be decided today, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, in the framework of the vote, which will begin in half an hour, that is at 17.25. I'm adjourning the session of the assembly, which will be resumed at 5.25 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u212	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! We are proceeding with a meeting of the National Assembly. Please calm down so we can end this day as soon as possible. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. We are moving on to the end of the 1st item of the agenda - this is on questions from Members and Members. Before we go to the vote, I ask Members and Members to check the functioning of the voting apparatus, namely, the orange light must be on the right hand side of the card. In this case, a vote may be taken. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of the Mag. Milana M. Szwikl, the assembly will decide on the next proposal for a decision. The National Assembly will hold a debate at its next regular session on the response of the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Janez Janša, to the question of mag. Milana M. Szvikla, on the decisions and actions taken by the Government in the field of tax and economic law, for the lives and work of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Would you like to explain on behalf of the House of Representatives?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u213	Of course, I would further explain this procedural proposal if [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u214	We are in the voting phase and you can explain your vote, Mr. Squeakl. And I ask whether in my own name or on behalf of the Member of Parliament [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u215	on behalf of the Group of Members. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u216	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u217	On a procedural proposal, the Group of Members will vote in favour of a discussion on the inadequate response of the Prime Minister to my question, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 246. Why? Because, of course, we do not doubt that the Prime Minister should not meet with anyone from the economy, but we do want to discuss, of course, what the consequences of his meetings are, and therefore we believe that it is necessary to discuss the President's response, because it has not explained how harmful and why it works in the economy, as is clear from the case of Operation Mercator. We also believe that it is right to discuss, in response to a discussion by the Prime Minister, the harmful changes made by Mr President of the Government in the National Assembly. And we need to talk about who's gonna pay for all this? Who would cover an additional 600 billion tolls of public debt or 300,000 tolls on each of us, and who, if not exactly taxpayers, who we're going to charge tomorrow by paying one tolar per tolar to the country, will each have to pay for it. So is that young family who saves for housing as a pensioner or a pensioner. We therefore, of course, believe that if you support this decision, we will be able to discuss the consequences of government decisions and actions in the field of the economy, in the field of tax legislation. We believe that, of course, this debate, where the Prime Minister will still have to explain why he is acting primarily in the best interests of the wealthy, why the middle layer and the poorest will be burdened by taxation of interest and, in particular, as Mr Janša said yesterday, by the framework of reforms to increase prosperity in Slovenia, but we are afraid that, due to the introduction of a single tax rate, he will tax the poorest among us in order to increase the burden on food, on children's clothing, on housing. I would therefore suggest, Members and Members, that you support the proposal, because, of course, it is not appropriate for us to have a government that does not explain how it spends, and everyone else must save for this government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u218	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to explain their voice? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 45. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision. In accordance with the proposal of the Member, Mr Miran Potrč, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the response of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Janez Janša, to the question of the Member State's relations with the Roman Catholic Church. Anybody want to explain their voice? Mr. Potch, on behalf of the delegation?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u219	Yeah. Thank you very much. Very briefly. We will support the proposal in the parliamentary group. It is not only a matter of government relations with the Roman Catholic Church, but also of the obligations our country has until the return of property, including the Roman Catholic Church. And I particularly believe that this should be done because I was really surprised that the Prime Minister, with all the apparatus that the Government has, does not know and does not know the officially published data from the Rapporteur of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia published a few years ago, the last time in the number 91, 21 November 2001, where everything related to the denationalisation has been carried out until then, and that he doubts whether anyone else is collecting this information in any other way. I suppose if the Prime Minister doesn't know that maybe one of the Members and Members of Parliament doesn't know that and the public does, then I think it's useful to have this debate held. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u220	Thank you, Mr. Run. Anybody else want to explain their voice? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 44. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision. We continue with the adjourned 2nd item of the agenda - the consideration of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Road Safety Act. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled. We first decide on the amendment of SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 2. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 77 Members and Members present. They were voted 48 against 20. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 20.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Group of Members with first-signed Matjaz Han to Article 2. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 77 Members and Members present. There were 27 votes against 41. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that the Second reading assembly did not accept the amendments or adopted the amendment to Article 2 of the amended law. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table an amendment to this article? [[No, no, ……]] I find that no amendments were tabled in the third reading. On the basis of paragraph 5 of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the legislature and the Government have not informed me that the law on the grounds of the amendment adopted would not be harmonised. That's why we're moving on to a decision on the law. Mrs. Potrata, would you like to speak on behalf of the Group of Members? In my own name. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u221	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I will not support this bill for a simple reason, because it seems to me that in these times of globalisation it is extremely important for an individual to be given an identification point. The classification of the local coat of arms, the municipal coat of arms on the registration plate is one of such options. The second thing I'm not going to support is not to say a controversy about letters on the license plate. The requirement that foresters be placed on the registration plate, which is technically possible, has been met by some Members and Members of Parliament on concerns, since foresters are not important for the development of the Slovenian language. Certainly not for development, but they are for the tradition of this language, which has hazelnuts as written signs for special votes. And why does this seem so important to me? This is the time when our siblings in Italy are fighting for the right to use noise in their identity cards, we argue that this is not important. This time, when our local cousins in Austria are fighting for labels on local tables, it seems irrelevant to us. This seems important to me, and I raise my voice against this law in order to point out how important some things are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u222	Thank you, Mrs. Patrati. Mr Zagorac, on behalf of the Group of Members or in his own name?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u223	On behalf of the Group of Members. Thank you for your word. Your Honors are here! We will fully support the law in the Slovenian national side, mainly because an amendment has been adopted on the home labour body, which introduces the international code Slovenia as an SI. As I have already said in my presentation of the position following the international recognition of the Republic of Slovenia, the ISO, an international organisation for standardisation, also a voluntary member of the Republic of Slovenia, has set our country a two-letter SI code in Standard ISO 3166. Despite Slovenia being a voluntary member of this organisation, it is still necessary to respect certain rules of the game and culturally, and it is moral to stick to what we have committed. It is therefore appropriate to introduce a new SI marking. As for the debate on the coat of arms of individual municipalities, I have also said, I cannot agree with the fact that coat of arms are such an important identification, and that this is the only reason why the coat of arms of each congregation should be introduced, says 193 congregations, because then I am very interested in how many Members and Members could describe the coat of arms of all 193 congregations. As I said, the SI code is the one for which Slovenia is internationally bound, so we will support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u224	Thank you. Anybody else want some? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. 76 Members and Members present, 52 votes against 12 [[..]] [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against 12.]] I take it the law has been passed. This concludes item 2 of the agenda. We are moving on to the continuation of the 3rd item of the agenda - to the consideration of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the value added tax law. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LDS Group to Article 4, which is the first amendment to Article 4. Anybody want to explain their voice? Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u225	Very briefly. We will support this amendment. I hope that you will also support it in the ruling coalition so that the proposals of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, which proposes to increase the border from 50 million to 80 million, can be followed in the third reading. Otherwise, you will, of course, remain at the limit of 50 million, a border that is arbitrary, a border that does not allow what the Prime Minister has promised at the trade fair, that is to support small and medium-sized enterprises. This limit only allows agricultural producers, and some micro-enterprises, and some s.p.s, to avoid or account for value added tax after paid realization. Mr Minister said he could not reach the 80 million limit because it was not possible to find 3 million liquidity delays or liquidity losses in the state budget. I am surprised that a minister who cannot find 3 billion in the state liquidity gap budget can find in the state budget for 70 billion interest exemptions on denationalisation bonds. If you support the amendment, we will be able, in the third reading, to propose an amendment to follow the President's will, as expressed only at the trade fair. Otherwise, of course, it is just some kind of fog-making, in which in the end, due to the failure of the actual improvement of financial discipline, the craftsmen of medium and small enterprises will tell their stories.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u226	Thank you, Mr. Squeakle. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 78 Members and Members present, voted for by 31 votes to 46. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 46.]] I note that the first amendment to Article 4 has not been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the second amendment to Article 4. The LDS Group has also tabled this. Anybody want to explain their voice? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. The vote is under way. 79 Members and Members were present, 29 votes against 46. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 46.]] I note that the second amendment to Article 4 has not been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the third amendment to Article 4 of the Act. The LDS Group has also tabled this. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 78 Members and Members present, 26 votes against 46. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 46.]] I note that this amendment to Article 4 has not been adopted either. I am closing the second hearing and moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments were adopted in the second reading to the amended proposal, the third reading of the amendments cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the law. In doing so, I inform you that the legislature or the government has not informed me that the law would be inconsistent. Mr. Squeakl, would you like to speak on behalf of the delegation?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u227	On behalf of the Group of Members, I wish to clarify that [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u228	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u229	We can't support the marriage. [[...]] Marriage with its solutions does not solve the problem that caused it. The law will not reduce financial non-discipline; the law will virtually create some relief. However, the final problem with financial non-discipline is, of course, linked to whether Members of the ruling coalition with amendments to the state budget will, of course, provide adequate resources to ensure that they meet the country's obligations to a greater extent. We cannot support this law in the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u230	Thank you, Mr. Squeakle. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 15. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 15.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 6th item of the agenda - this is the consideration of the proposal for a law amending the Law on the Tax on Wages paid. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a decision on the first amendment to Article 1. The amendment was tabled by the LDS Group of Members. Anybody want to explain their voice? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 46. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We vote on the second amendment to Article 1. It was tabled by the Group of Social Democrats. Mr. Webber, please. On behalf of the Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u231	On behalf of the House of Representatives. I just want to further explain the views of the Group on why we tabled these amendments. We also support progressive tax reliefs on paid wages. Of course, we are proposing a slightly higher threshold of 200 000 tolars of gross wages compared to the government, which is proposing 165 thousand tolars. Of course, we also propose that, after two years or in 2008, zero-tax payments are charged. This is a fundamental difference that is certainly extremely developmental. Since the issue has been raised in the course of the debate, and how we will compensate for this loss of income, I would like to say that this is precisely why we will create significantly more favourable conditions for employment and will thus relieve the state-owned cash obligations that must be provided in the field of the Ministry of Labour, Social and Family, where it is necessary to provide funds for the resolution of the unemployed as well. If the number of unemployed is lower, which is certain if the tax on paid salaries is abolished in 2008, real chances remain, this savings for the unemployed will certainly compensate for the abolition of the tax on paid salaries in 2008. Therefore, there are indeed more than a dozen reasons for supporting the amendment and thus allowing for faster development of our companies, especially the labour intensive industries, which also want to create greater added value than they have been given under the current conditions, so, of course, I will support this amendment as well as the entire parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u232	Thank you, Mr. Webra. We're voting. The vote on the amendment is ongoing. There are 78 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 46. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 46.]] I note that the second amendment to Article 1 of the Act has not been adopted. I am concluding the second reading and moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments were adopted in the third reading of the amendments in the second reading to the amended proposal, we are moving on to a legislative decision. In doing so, I inform you that the legislature or the government has not informed me that the law would be inconsistent. Mr. Squeakle, please. On behalf of the delegation? [[Yeah.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u233	On behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club of Parliament, I will explain that we will support the law. In fact, the Law amending the Law on Taxation on Payments is following the bill proposed by members of the opposition in May, June of this year, and you have rejected it as a ruling coalition in July, so I would be delighted to see you vote differently in less than half a year than you voted under the government's commitment and I believe that we will jointly support the law, a law that will make a small but yet first step towards reducing the burden of work. This intention of reducing the pay tax was first implemented by the 2004 reform in 2005 by raising the rate, by what is now proposed, and it is actually something worse than what was proposed by members of the opposition. Of course, we have proposed amendments to improve this, and we have failed. Nevertheless, we believe that the law amending the law on taxation on paid wages needs to be supported because it is the right step towards reducing the burden of work. We hope, then, that we will be able to correct the corporate income tax accordingly, as appropriate, so that the government can do better with the amendments to the law in 2006, perhaps as proposed by the reformist group for 2007, finally abolishing the pay tax. As I said, we have proposed this, with the previous vote you have rejected this. Nevertheless, we support the law because it is the right step. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u234	Thank you, Mr. Squeakle. Mr. Webber, please. Even on behalf of the parliamentary group?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u235	On behalf of the Group of Members. Thank you for your word. We will support the Law on Taxes on Payments in the Group of Members of the Social Democrats. It is an effective measure of how we can help the economy, especially the labour-intensive industries, and the fact that the government has not actually proposed any solution so far, which would also enable businesses in difficulty to overcome their problems, and this is in fact the only way and measure to replace, in our view, an unreasonable decision, which is otherwise bound to European Union rules, however, that anyone would try to negotiate for additional conditions for a company in difficulty was obviously not ready. Of course, we have one important advantage in this law that there is no need to comply with European legislation and we can really create a tax policy for paid wages ourselves, and this opportunity could be used even more. Unfortunately, the amendment that we have proposed would not be supported, but, however, the very content that is proposed in the text of the law also follows our wishes, but of course we are not satisfied that we have not made more ambitious use of the kind of gifts that the country can accept as such in the field of tax policy and do not need to be coordinated with anyone, but that you will allow for a truly very large competitiveness of the Slovenian economy and, lastly, the existence of those sectors that are in extremely difficult situations. That's why we're going to support this marriage. Of course, we want the effects to be very specific in the field or in companies, so as to keep as many jobs as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u236	Thank you, Mr. Webra. Mr. Sok, do you want to do this on behalf of the delegation?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u237	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In Novi Slovenija, we will be happy to support the law on the amendment of the tax on paid wages, as we have also done in the law on amendments and additions to the value added tax law. We are even more pleased with the opposition's recognition that these are steps in the right direction. Such steps will be further, and we are confident that the opposition will also strongly support all of this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u238	Thank you, Mr. Sok. We're voting. The vote on the law is ongoing. There are 80 Members and Members present, 79 votes against none. [[The vote was 79.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with paragraph 6a of the agenda, with consideration of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on corporate income tax. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 2a tabled by the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members. Mr. Pece, can I have your explanation on behalf of the delegation? In my own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u239	Ladies and gentlemen of the court! I would just like to remind you that before deciding on an amendment that allows disabled companies to fight competitively and to survive normally on the market. We estimate that the loss that the State would have had through this loss of profits is not at all comparable to the positive effects that the adoption of such an amendment would have. Therefore, once again in my name, I call upon you to support the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u240	Thank you, Mr. Pechet. We vote on the amendment to Article 2a. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 38. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 4 tabled by the LDS Group. Mr. Squeakl, please explain your vote on behalf of the delegation.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u241	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, Members and Members of Parliament! The amendment we have proposed is trying to correct the error in the law made by the government when it decided to introduce international accounting standards for tax purposes as the only one among the 25 countries in the European Union. This law will have great consequences. It will reduce the capital adequacy of Slovenian banks and reduce the relevant reservations in Slovenian insurance companies. I am surprised that, in view of the expected vote on the same content today, you have even submitted it yourself, an amendment to Article 14, which speaks of the same issue for investment companies, so it would certainly be at least right for Members of the ruling coalition to support the amendment to Article 4. Although it has been proposed by Members of the Liberal Democracy, we do not want anything but that the Slovenian financial sector as a whole, investment companies, insurance companies and domestic banking institutions have equality before the law. We believe that the law does not guarantee this. The law does not guarantee this because Mr Bajuk has decided, unlike Mr Rope or later Mr Marble, to tax a one-time change in the possibility of taxation. He decided that, when he moved from one to the other, he would tax the freed reservations. Mr Bajuk should know that we have been making these reservations in the Slovenian banking area for 17 years, since 1988, and that several Slovenians, especially in other parts of the country, have lost their roles in the banking system. Now, with a single move, you will tax more than 70 billion of these reservations, and so within a few years you will get into the revenue of a state-owned single resource. This, of course, will not help Mr Bajuk take over the euro, because the European Union, which knows these things precisely, will eliminate these revenues as one-off, so we propose that you accept the amendment and we will have a normal tax system, we will have a normal banking system, and in particular domestic banks will be able to continue to compete with foreign banks. If you do not accept this, it is perfectly clear to us that the purpose is another, the purpose is to create and weaken the capital position of domestic banks in order to make them easier prey to the appetites reflected by this coalition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u242	Thank you, Mr. Squeakle. I would ask Members that you do not use the Institute of Explanation to argue with a minister who does not have the opportunity to answer at this stage of the examination of the law. Mr. Webber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u243	In Slovenia, as well as other developed countries, we have adopted a game of capital. Of course, we note that this game of capital does not go in the direction of trying to consolidate Slovenian capital, allowing it to expand its influence on foreign markets as well, thereby improving its international reputation in both European and global space. So the solutions that tax the assets that are defined as reservations are mildly unusual taxes, and in fact lead to a significant reduction in the capital adequacy of both Slovenian banks and insurance companies. If we are only aware that their capital adequacy is very clearly assessed in insurance companies if they wish to exercise their interest in foreign markets. This measure, of course, prevents them from doing so - to exercise our national interest also in foreign markets through capital-appropriate insurance companies and, hopefully, also the bank. Of course, in this law, we also have an impact on our own capital market within the country itself. Investment funds will be taxed for non-monetary profits, i.e. for something that does not actually exist. And if they want to solve this problem, they're going to have to sell their securities on the stock market, and they're also going to have to cause some, I can say, a disturbance in the capital market, in the sense that the value of these shares is going to be very low, very low, and that again causes a very big problem, which is that we don't deal economically with the capital we have at our disposal. In particular, if we are counting on the fact that we do not have certain financial obligations covered, which are reflected in obligations to comply with the Denationalisation Act. If we do this indefinitely, if this obligation continues to increase or if we do not provide additional capital to the Slovenian compensation company, we will sooner or later be ahead of the even greater obligations of the state budget, which we fear will even be uncontrollable. That is why we will support this amendment and try to prevent this uneconomic behaviour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u244	Thank you, Mr. Webra. We're voting on the amendment. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 44. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the first amendment to Article 10 of the law tabled by the Group of Members of the Social Democrats. Anybody want to explain their voice? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 44. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the second amendment to the same article. It was proposed by the LDS Group of Members. Anybody want to explain their voice? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting on the amendment. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 46. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the first amendment to Article 14, proposed by the Group of Members of the Social Democrats. If this is accepted, the two amendments will remain irrelevant. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 18 votes against 60. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 60.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the second amendment to Article 14 of the Act. It was proposed by the LDS Group of Members. Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u245	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I hope that the Members of the ruling coalition will also support this amendment, given that they have proposed a third amendment to this 14th article, which is even more generous than this. You're obviously willing to listen to our reasonings. This amendment simply tries to correct in the financial sector what Mr Bajuk, I apologize, the Minister and the Government have not proposed in law itself. Article 4 of this failed to fix it for banks and insurance companies, with the amendment to Article 14, we provide this for investment companies. It is obvious that lobbyists from investment companies, who are obviously the only private sector, because the insurance companies and banks no longer hope to speak to or reach the ruling coalition, have actually managed to convince the ruling coalition that it has proposed an even better amendment than we have proposed in the Liberal Democracy, so I expect you to support our amendment and then even more generously to those whom you believe are the only true owners in the Slovenian capital area and where you are allowing further relief. We believe that, despite this amendment, there is a need for support. The amendment will normalise the situation for this segment of the sector, but unfortunately the non-admission of the amendment to Article 4 will not do so for insurance companies and not for the banking sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u246	Thank you, Mr. Squeakle. If this amendment is adopted, then the third amendment is irrelevant. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 46. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 46.]] I note that the second amendment to Article 14 has not been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the third amendment to Article 14 of the Act. It was proposed by SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 64 votes against 1. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that the proposed amendment has been adopted. I am concluding the second reading and moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted the amendment to Article 14 of the amended bill. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table an amendment to this article? [[No, no, ……]] I find that no amendments were tabled in the third reading. On the basis of Article 140, paragraph 5, I inform you that the legislative and legal services and the government have not informed me that the law on the basis of the amendment adopted would be inconsistent. That's why we're moving on to a decision on the law. Mr. Squeakle, please. On behalf of the delegation?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u247	The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons is a hybrid law. Some of the good solutions proposed by members of the opposition are included in the work of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy in the common law, the tax withdrawal from interest and similar matters. With this law, we have built with our left hand something good for the development of, above all, the economic situation. It is also good that we have adopted an amendment to Article 14, an amendment that will at least provide a slightly better financial situation for investment firms and financial institutions. However, it is weak in this law that this law, unlike the government's other direction and the direction of the so-called reformers, does not guarantee what is the right intensity, and this is the relief of wages, but to a certain extent is primarily a burden on capital. Whether this is good or not depends, of course, on what will be the next move. However, since the law by providing and establishing the basis for the taxation of provisions in the Slovenian banking insurance system, and with some other moves, does not provide sufficient incentives for research and development, we cannot support the proposal of the law in the Liberal Democracy Chamber. Our assessment is that, unlike around 165 billion revenues in 2005, the state budget under this law will reach around 110.120 billion revenues in 2006. The problem is, and this minister knows you're counting on up to 160, 165 billion, which is why we're going to have at least a 40-billion-dollar drop in 2006 with the adoption of this law. In autumn 2006, of course, you will be reviewing whether my predictions are correct, so we cannot support the law in the Liberal Democracy Club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u248	Thank you, Mr. Squeakle. Mr. Weber. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u249	Thank you. We will not support this law in the parliamentary group of Social Democrats. We estimate that it will have a difficult long-term remedial impact on the functioning of the country, as it has a drastic impact on the capital area of banks, insurance companies and our investment funds. It also increases its obligations due to such behaviour, which will be even greater in terms of denationalisation obligations. At the same time, of course, we cannot agree that it is such a high one-off measure, a one-off taxation of assets that is not actually income, but rather a reservation for the long-term stable development of Slovenia, or for the resolution of the most critical situations, the most extreme situations in which we can find ourselves: either because of natural captures or because of other obligations for which reservations can then be used. We are also sorry that an amendment has not been adopted, which would also provide regional incentives as a systemic solution. So regional incentives for development, and we therefore estimate that in 2006 and 2007 more or less companies will not be able to prepare development programmes for their technological development, present them in Brussels and then enable the implementation of this relief provided for in this law. In our view, it is indeed an obligation that will arise on the capital market in a way that will in fact reduce the potential for Slovenian capital to affect development both within the country and in the acquisition of foreign markets, and, last but not least, it reduces the possibility of competing our insurance companies for the domestic market compared to others. In short, too short-term measures with too serious long-term consequences to support this law. We will therefore vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u250	Thank you, Mr. Webra. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 13. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 13.]] I take it the law has been passed. The Committee on Finance, as a parent of the labour force, proposes that we adopt two more decisions regarding the law adopted. First of all, we are moving to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on corporate income tax, second reading, EPA 162-IV, proposals by the Group of Members and Members, with first-signed mags. Milan M. Sziklom is not suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 64 votes against 12. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[Against 12.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a second decision: a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on corporate income tax, a second reading, EPA 508-IV, the proposal of the group of Members and Members with the first signed by Barbara Žgajner Tavš, is not suitable for further consideration. Mr. Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u251	In the Liberal Democracy Club, we supported the previous decision because the content of the law I proposed as my first signature was incorporated into the hybrid law. The contents of the law with the first signed by Mrs Barbara Žgajner Tavš were not included because the amendments and this part of the law were not adopted, so we cannot support the proposal for a decision in the parliamentary club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-22-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u252	Thank you. Anyone else? We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 24. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 24.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I am adjourning the 11th session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. Good night.
