ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u1	Good morning, everyone, and an apology for the delay in meeting with the President of the National Assembly. I begin the continuation of the 4th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Bogdan Barovic, Geza Juban from 12.00 p.m. on, Ljubo Germič from 12.00 p.m. on, Miran Jerič from 3 p.m. on, Franc Kangler, mag. Majda Potrata, Aloise Posedel from 12.00 p.m. on, Dr. Mitja Slavinec from 12.00 p.m. on, Aloise Sok from 12.00 p.m. on, Josef Školč from 12.00 p.m. on, mag. Franc Žnidaršič and Miro Friday from 12.00 p.m. Apparently, there's a lot going on in the afternoon, given the predicted absence. Before we move on to the 7th item of the agenda, I would like to summarise the letter we received from the Slovenian National Party. At today's 7th point, the Slovenian National Party is forecasting obstruction due to the complications it said occurred yesterday during the vote during the presidency of Mr Vasje Klavora. We're moving to seven. PERIOD OF THE DAY - PROPOSAL FOR THE ADOPTION OF AUTHENTIC EXPOSURE 2. AND 5. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21(3) of the Article 84(1) of Regulation (EU) Member of the Law on the Tax on the Income of Legal Persons. The draft law should be explained by Mr Sašo Pece. In view of the fact that the Slovenian National Party is obstructing this item of the agenda, I can only say that the proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as the parent working body. I therefore ask President Bojan Starman to present the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u2	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members, distinguished representatives of the Government! At its 1st meeting, on 2.3.2005, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on Finance and Monetary Policy addressed the proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 68, first paragraph, and Article 84, first paragraph, of the Law on the Income of Legal Persons, which was submitted to the national assembly by a group of Members of the Slovenian National Party, signed by Saš Pečet. It follows from the proposal that the legal text of paragraph 2 to 5 of Article 68(1) of the Law on the Tax on the Income of Legal Persons, which introduces a new obligation to calculate the withdrawal and payment of the tax deduction for interest on payments for use or the right to use copyrights, patents, licences, trademarks and other property rights and other similar proceeds from payments for purchases and from payments for services of performing operators or athletes, if these payments belong to another person, is unclear. Applicants point out that the lack of clarity of text may cause disputes in its application. For this reason, the legislator should first answer the question whether the obligation under the withdrawal and payment account relates to all revenue accrued for the period after 1 January 2005, irrespective of when legal transactions have been concluded on the basis of which these incomes are charged and paid, or whether it relates only to income accrued for the period after 1 January 2005, which is charged and paid on the basis of legal transactions concluded after the entry into force of the law from the revenue of legal persons after 21.4.2004 when it has been adopted. In the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and in the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, this authentic interpretation practically changes the basic meaning of this law and the proposer, by authentic interpretation, completes the practical law in such a way that the obligation to pay for those legal transactions concluded before 21.4.2004 does not apply. It is clear that this cannot be regulated and cut into the content of the law itself, so the Government's proposal and the legislative and legal services have gone in this direction that a change of law is necessary if we are to make a meaningful change in the law. I must say that we have already discussed this point with the amendments and additions to the Law on Taxes of Legal Persons in December, and we have not adopted this initiative, which was also transmitted by the Association of Banks of Slovenia. I must say that in the debate it was said and found that the preparation of the whole amendment of the legislation in the tax area, which was to come to the national assembly as soon as possible, therefore it was concluded that the authentic interpretation, paragraphs 2 to 5 of Article 48 and Article 84 of the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons, was not to be adopted. The Committee adopted an additional decision proposing that the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy should propose to the Government, as soon as possible, on the basis of the analysis carried out, to provide information on the public financial effects of the tax evasion imposed between 1.1.2005 and 28.2.2005. When preparing the amendment to the Law on corporate income tax, account should be taken of the conclusion of the debate held in the home committee of 2.3.2005. It is therefore proposed that the authentic interpretation is not accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u3	Thank you very much, Mr Starman, for the report. I give the floor to the representative of the government, Mr Bogomir Špiletic, to the State Secretary in the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u4	Dear President, honourable Members, honourable Members! At the end of March 2004, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a law on corporate income tax and amended and supplemented it in December of the same year. That law introduced in Article 68 a tax deduction from certain income paid to residents and non-residents. However, the transitional regime concerning Article 68 is laid down in Article 84 of the Act. The Group of Members proposed the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 68, paragraph 1 and Article 84, paragraph 5, of the Law on corporate income tax. The Government’s view is that all the provisions of the law under appeal are sufficiently clear and that there is no need for an authentic interpretation of how to implement these provisions. However, any authentic interpretation of the implementation of the contested provisions would, in our opinion, be a modification of the proposed text and the content of the law itself. I would also like to respond to the decision made by the Chairman of the Committee on the Economy, which ordered the government to report on the financial effects of this law. The decision shall be implemented. When the numbers are available, the board will also be informed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u5	Thank you, Secretary of State. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The first is Mr Bojan Starman, who will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u6	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. The Slovenian Democratic Party will support the proposal of the Home Committee because it considers that an authentic explanation is unnecessary, as the Prime Minister has said. The intention of this authentic interpretation is to amend the law, which will have to be achieved by a procedure to amend the law. The moves are already in place. A proposal has already been tabled to amend this law from the income of legal persons, and I think that this will also be addressed and duly established and corrected in the procedure for amending tax legislation. The Slovenian Democratic Party will support the proposal, as provided by its mother's working body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u7	Thank you. I give my word to Mr Milan Cvikl, Master, to present the position of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u8	Mr President, representatives of the government, Members and Members of Parliament! Good afternoon! Unfortunately, we are starting today's debate in a very strange atmosphere when we are actually discussing a very important topic, without looking at what was happening yesterday, but during today's Liberal Democracy Club, we will also respond to some of the inadequacy of yesterday's meetings of the National Assembly. With regard to the mandatory interpretation of the law on corporate income tax, allow me to present, on behalf of the parliamentary club, my views on the proposal for a mandatory interpretation of the law. For reasons that are of a formal nature, because of course we cannot oppose the position of the legislature and because of course we want to act as a constructive opposition that cannot accept a voluntary approach whereby the Slovenian national party with an imaginary mandatory interpretation wants to change the content of the law on corporate income tax, we will not support a mandatory interpretation in the Liberal Democracy Club. However, because we are substantively in agreement and have pointed out on the working body that the problem created by the misunderstanding of the ruling coalition is necessary, because in December 2004 it did not adopt the amendment we tabled, and we will and will have already tabled amendments to the law on corporate income tax. Of course, I am pleased to hear what the representative of the Slovenian Democratic Party Club said to support such a change in the law on corporate income tax in the procedure. We would be pleased if the government would also say what it thinks about this in substance in the discussion below. However, in order, of course, to be able to do so properly in the National Assembly, allow me to briefly present the substantive problem related to the authentic interpretation and the necessary amendment to the law on corporate income tax. In doing so, it is necessary to return to last year's tax reform, for which it can already be determined after two and a half months and on the basis of the first data that it was appropriate to ensure the stability of public financial revenues. On Monday, he also spoke about this by a representative of the International Monetary Fund and said that this year's financial situation will be good, because we have a well-managed reform, which, as is known, has decommissioned income and wage tax for about 30 billion and, on the other hand, has provided a good profit due to earlier tax changes, notably from value added tax, excise duty and can therefore be expected in this year's year over 36 billion revenues as planned. We expect, as the Minister of Finance has said, that the 2005 budget balance will be such that the deficit will be reduced. However, this last year's tax reform, which was linked to EU entry and which, as the government representative said, was adopted in spring 2004, had some shortcomings. One of its key shortcomings, the tax deductions on interest on interbank transactions we made first with the government's proposal, and then with the amendment that I made on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, the amendments of the Association of Banks of Slovenia, we tried to remedy this key weakness. In December, for reasons unknown to us, we hope that this is really related only to the fact that the government has just started its work, and this amendment has not received the support of the Ministry of Finance’s professional services or the political representatives of the Ministry of Finance, because it did not want to discuss substantively the problem triggered by the tax withdrawal from interest. For the most part, the tax deduction for interest was placed in an unequal position of a bank that is owned by Slovenia, banks that are not branches of foreign banks that cannot obtain resources from their owners and, in fact, prevents Slovenian banks from competing on the market with foreign banks. That is why, of course, we will and have already tabled an amendment to the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons, which will, of course, solve the substantive problem of tax evasion on interest on interbank transactions and abolish it, as is the case throughout the European Union. We believe that the agreement of the parliamentary groups of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to adopt this law at one of the future meetings would allow us to establish normal competition in the Slovenian banking area as soon as possible and allow the Slovenian banks to implement their strategy, of course. We will see the formation of the positions of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Ministry of Finance, or the words of the Prime Minister, who supports the further development of banks in Slovenia, whether these words will be followed by actions. This will be best seen if the Government of the Republic of Slovenia gives a positive opinion on the amendment of the Law on corporate income tax, with regard to the abolition of tax evasion on interest on interbank transactions, because it will be best for the government to confirm that it thinks seriously in supporting the development of the Slovenian banking system. In this respect, of course, today's debate is unnecessary. If, in December, the ruling coalition on the working body supported the amendment, and here all respect for the Chairman of the Finance Committee, who supported this amendment, would not have had today's debate or an authentic explanation and would not have lost any time in this national assembly in the coming weeks to amend this law on corporate income tax. I regret this, but, as is known in democracy, it is those who have a majority, even though they do not know what they are doing, that we think we will have to devote some time in the coming weeks to this and by changing the corporate income tax to enable the competitive position of Slovenian banks in the Slovenian banking market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u9	Thank you, Mag. Squeak. I give the floor to Mr Martin Mikolić, who will present the position of New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The New Slovenia Group will not support the proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation from Article 68(1) to (5) and Article 84 of the Law on the Income of Legal Persons. The legislative and legal service considers that the proposed authentic interpretation is not necessary because the effect of the new tax evasion regime on certain incomes is clearly defined in the law. This was explained by the representative of the Government on the home working body in the consideration of the proposal to amend the authentic interpretation, as well as in the meeting of the home working body in December to consider the amendment of the law amending and supplementing the law on corporate income tax. According to the Government, under the legal provisions and the following purpose of the law, the obligation to pay taxes is not linked to the creation of a legal business, but rather to the obligation to do so from 1.1.2005. The authentic interpretation in the proposed text would not only change the text but also the purpose of the law. The proposer proposes the definition of legal transactions concluded before 21.4.2004 when the law was adopted. If the legislator wished to introduce precision as proposed in the text, he would have introduced it at the time of the adoption of the legislative text. As a result of the well-known problems brought about by the implementation of new tax laws, including the Law on corporate tax, the government has undertaken tax reforms or systemic changes in tax legislation. Since the government is preparing changes, we in the New Slovenia Group are surprised by the announcement by athletes about the organisation of the strike for the night. Even more incomprehensible is their demand for the resignation of two ministers who have little to do with the current legislation, because we know that it was adopted by the former government, and I ask them why they did not strike last year when the former government adopted legislation. Based on all of this, the sentence seems to be politically motivated. Otherwise, the new tax legislation, which came into force from 1.1.2005, has affected hundreds of social groups. In Nova Slovenija, we expect that the planned reform will contain the legitimate and reasoned requirements of individual stakeholders. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u11	Thank you, Mr. Mikolitch. I give the floor to Mr Josip Bajc to present the position of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u12	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, nice day! Members of the Slovenian People's Party will not support the proposal to adopt an authentic interpretation of paragraphs 2 and 5 of Article 68 and 84 of the Law on corporate income taxes. We will support the proposal for a decision of the parent working body, for one simple reason: we cannot change the content of the law by authentic explanation of the individual provisions of the individual laws. The specific proposal presented by Members of the Slovenian National Party is this. And maybe my personal opinion is that I won't take another word for it. I am surprised that the members of the former coalition on the working body strike and say what we know and what we do not know when we did not accept the amendment in December, when we amended certain provisions of this Article. However, this law was in force for about six months and was also proposed by the then coalition, and they also proposed a change of law. In doing so, I believe that many of the laws adopted last year have been "on the hook", but we are now experiencing a whiff of the current coalition, which is trying to study certain things first and then prepare or put into consideration. Members of the Slovenian People's Party will support the decision of the home working body on the proposal for an authentic explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u13	Thank you. He will be the last to present the position of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Vili Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u14	Thank you very much. Since my time has been very low, it only writes for 3 minutes, I will try very briefly to tell you what is the position of our group. We certainly do not support the fact that legislation changes substantively on the basis of parallel routes or some shorter paths with authentic interpretations. That is why we will not support this proposal from the proposer. There is no need for an authentic explanation. Marriage is probably clear enough, but it doesn't mean we think it's good. It is likely for all of us that a series of corrections should be made in some normal process. And so will we. We also remember that the amendment proposal has been tabled. By some chance, he was first, as far as I know, handed over to me personally. I would have supported that amendment, but since I wasn't at this meeting, I asked them to pass it on to someone else. I am saying this in order to avoid putting the blame on our shoulders, one or the other, for what kind of marriage we have, because, in my memory, we have adopted the law with a vast majority, even though the amendment has not been adopted. I think there were less than a dozen who were against this bill. To shorten the fact that those three minutes are almost over, the DeSUS Group will support the position of the parent committee, which speaks of the need for an authentic explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u15	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded with the presentations on the views of the groups of Members. By the way, allow the warning that the presentations are not intended for controversy, because of course the presentation then does not allow a replica, so I would like you to stick to other points of this reference. We are now moving on to a debate between Members and Members. There's a Master's degree, Milan Squeakle. The word is yours.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u16	Thank you very much. In addition to what I have said on behalf of the Liberal Democratic Club, allow me, of course, to explain to the National Assembly, so as not to waste time when we have before us a law on changes in the corporate income tax, that this substantive amendment, which was not adopted, was, in my view, mostly in December, that the Ministry of Finance's professional services were under-consulted. Even in this case, especially with the Association of Banks of Slovenia, when the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is still an old government, and then the new government proposed amendments to the Law on Taxation from the Income of Legal Persons. The old government and the new government have proposed amendments to the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons because, of course, it has been found that there are several problems with the constitutionality of the provisions that led to these two governments to propose that there should be no tax evasion on interest on transactions concluded prior to the entry into force of this Act. Such a change in the law was proposed by the previous government as early as the second half of the year, and then, as is known, the new government took some time and, with a delay of 14 days, summarized the amendment of the Law on the Income of Legal Persons and discussed this in the home labour body. I think that the working body has been very clearly presented by the public concerned, in this case the Association of Banks of Slovenia, that it is not only a problem of adopting, as we say, changes to the law before the law is in force, but that it is a key question whether, in the context of the European money market, we can bring into a less competitive position those institutions in Slovenia that cannot obtain untaxed resources from abroad because of their ownership structure. It is very simplistic to say that if interest rates are at around 3% on the European market today, 25% of points or slightly less than 0,80 margins should be added to this 3% and at this price, it is said that around 3.80 Slovenian banks are entering a competitive fight against the banks of Austria, against the SKB of the Societe Generale, against some other branches, particularly the Austrian and Italian banks, which is why they are immediately in a significantly better position of this foreign bank. Today, due to the good development of all the issues that have taken place in the rehabilitation of the Slovenian banking system, in Slovenia, the best commentants borrow money after about 90,100 basis points over EURIBOR, which means that Slovenian banks are virtually unable to compete and these transactions should simply stop. The Ministry of Finance then saw only one problem if the amendment that I had adopted, which we were discussing, had been adopted, but the Ministry of Finance had forgotten and even 19 days after we had adopted on the Finance Committee on 4 March the decision that the government should present an analysis of what the implementation of this law means - I still do not have this analysis - the Ministry of Finance has forgotten that if these transactions are not done by the Slovenian Bank, then there will also be no revenue. For all these reasons, we believe in the Liberal Democracy Club, and I also believe that we cannot confirm today's authentic interpretation, but that it is necessary, in accordance with the law already tabled, to have a discussion as soon as possible on the working body, to obtain the opinion of the RS Government, and then I hope that you will be Members and Members of the ruling coalition, as you have said today, I have heard from some of the paragraphs here, in order to be able to support this in order to make such a law as quickly as possible at the April meeting or as quickly as possible. In this regard, we have also consulted a number of experts in the Liberal Democracy in this area in the autumn when we changed the law and tried to determine whether this law could be extended to all legal persons by comparison. This is not possible in the Republic of Slovenia because other legal entities, as in other EU countries, are paying tax deductions on interest simply because the country wants to stimulate legal persons to borrow money from financial intermediaries because it reduces the risk that individual borrowers would be at risk. This is also the case of Adrie Airways. If Adria Airways were to be a little more careful and not hire resources to finance planes in the tax haven, it could reduce this tax burden. That's what she did. Since it has done so, it is not possible, in the manner presented here, to extend this abolition of tax evasion and interest to all legal persons by authentic explanation or by some amendments. Even in Germany, German legal entities pay a tax deduction from interest, but of course German banks do not pay this simply because there is a single market within the EU. We believe that the experiment that was already made in December with some amendment, which would certainly be appropriate to be adopted by the Committee on Finance as the most, we call it, an expert committee that allows discussion on important issues for the development of important banking, but as has been said, this has not been understood for good purpose. It was understood as some kind of cover-up. I hope that now that the law has been tabled, when it is also accurately explained by the international analysis we have obtained from certain international audit houses, it is clear that there is no tax evasion within the EU for interbank transactions. The tax deduction on interbank transactions should be abolished. Such a tax withdrawal, once terminated, will allow banks to start doing business as soon as possible. In this case, however, it is urgent that the Slovenian banks simply wait for this decision of the National Assembly and, in the meantime, postpone the rental of resources abroad in May, June. If this were to be delayed too long, there could be an increase in liquidity in the Slovenian banking market and this could have negative consequences for economic growth [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] and would not be able to make economic growth as it has been in the past year, so I propose to the ruling coalition that when it is in the process, we support it. Today, however, it is not possible to do anything other than reject an authentic explanation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u17	Thank you, Mag. Squeak. I'm inviting a representative of the government, Secretary of State of Spiletić, if he'd like to add anything else? [[No, no, ……]] All the advertised debaters who wanted it got their word. However, since the time for discussion has not yet passed, I ask whether there is anyone else who wishes to discuss it under Rule 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. Time is, I guess, 50 minutes. I find no one, so I am closing the debate on this point. We will decide on the proposal to adopt an authentic explanation in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 8th item of the agenda or no later than 2 p.m. and 40 minutes. I'm breaking this agenda. We're moving to 8. This is for the purpose of examining the act concerning the determination of a parliamentary inquiry into the political liability of the holders of public functions in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Ministry of Justice and the Supreme Public Prosecutor’s Office of the Republic of Slovenia in connection with the exercise of supervisory powers under the Public Prosecutor’s Act, the amendment of the law and the adoption of other decisions, in accordance with the constitutional powers of the National Council. On the basis of Article 93 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia submitted a request for the initiation of a parliamentary inquiry to the National Assembly. I therefore give the floor to a member of the Council of State, Mr Jožet Ilc, for an additional explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u18	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The purpose and content of the investigation are given in writing, and I will not repeat it. We wanted to clarify that the emphasis is on responsibilities, not on politicisation of responsibility, but on trade, which would turn the right direction. But finding out what's going to explain what's going on with the state's attorney's office as a responsible state authority. He points out, the D.A.'s on his own. Yeah. But independence is not a cover for inviolability, for unreality. The D.A.'s professional. Professionalism is not the basis for abuse of position again, for clienteleism, not to say any serious matter. Anyway, I'll always say what Montesquie said to the 'nobles of bonds', the bigger the function, the higher the responsibility. Not only does he have to put a burden on himself. Although I believe it's disgusting, but what they took, they have to do it. But the fact is, if we listen again to inviolability, irresponsibility, human rights. Yeah, what are human rights? Or are those who are filled with our ears every day by newly called human rights interpreters? These are universes. What about the human rights of the victims? The prosecution is for persecuting crimes and thus protecting all of us and the victims. If not, we have the case that someone who has 130 complaints on his conscience is facing an investigative judge for two rapes, and the prosecutor doesn't even open his mouth to just say, "I'm proposing a repeat threat detention." I'm sorry, but there's something really wrong here, and that's why I insist on investigating. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u19	Thank you very much to the representative of the State Council. In the meantime, I received a notice from the Slovenian National Party that, for the reasons already stated, it would also obstruct this item of the agenda. Here comes the presentation of the position of the members of the groups. Member of Parliament Dara Lovtijar Bebler has the floor to present the position of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u20	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. A well-respected choir. In the LDS Club, we considered the first initial request of the Council of State of Slovenia for the introduction of a parliamentary inquiry into the political responsibility of the State Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Slovenia to be illegal and contrary to the constitutional order of the Republic of Slovenia. We have also estimated that, with this request, someone has used the Institute of Parliament's investigation for their own personal interests, and has also abused it for even illegal and unconstitutional purposes. At the LDS, we felt that it was not irrelevant that we were aware that the initiator of the request was a state councillor who was being prosecuted by the prosecution for the suspicion of a crime and he withdrew into the protection of immunity. Political absurdity is perfect. The Councillor has requested against the legal and unconstitutional investigation of the part of the prosecution, which he is prosecuting under his official duties. Today, we do have a text that is trying to be legally corrected, but we must point out that it is particularly significant and worrying that at the very beginning of the creation of this requirement, none of the applicants tried to stir up even the appearance of legal correctness. Only after a variety of public warnings that this was not the case at home did they try to hide or hide what was really happening in the national world. However, this investigation will be initiated because a state councilman was not satisfied that he was convicted of a crime and therefore protected himself with immunity. Instead of questioning the responsibility of state councillors for this shamefully granted immunity, we will investigate the conduct of state prosecutors, whose conduct has been confirmed as correct with the judgments of the courts which have dealt with and condemned a particular state councillor. On the one hand, we have prosecutors who have done their job correctly, because their conduct has been judged by the court, and on the other hand we have a state councillor who wanted to legitimize his reference to immunity by predicting that immunity will be waived if he is served and started investigating the work of prosecutors. Wrong world. It was justified, at first, that everything seemed more farce than a serious matter, that we were not talking at all about the confusion and incompetence of the text which accompanied in the National Assembly the request of the State Council for the introduction of a parliamentary inquiry as a justification for it. However, by finding that the parliamentary majority suddenly supports such an investigation, this farce has become a serious matter or a serious farce. It is worth asking why this parliamentary majority was formed so quickly. Probably because there is an interest at the top of some political parties after dealing with some resilient individual criminal cases on this investigative committee, because there are also personal interests among some Members to deal with with him by distasteful prosecutors and police officers. It is because of these interests that it is obviously impossible to remedy this requirement for parliamentary investigation in such a way that it is in fact consistent with the Constitution and the law. At the LDS, we considered that the investigation into the prosecution's work was not a real issue. The real question is, what is the investigation and what is its purpose? We have pointed out that professional supervision under the state prosecutor's law is carried out by the state's supreme prosecutor's office, which has a special audit team to this end. The Office of the Prosecutor may also be supervised by the Minister of Justice. In the LDS, we are aware that there are also cases within the judiciary and the prosecution, such as the length of proceedings, large backlogs or the like, which may be the subject of an investigation, but in particular for the purposes of appropriate legislation. That's when we said we'd support such an investigation. We would also support an investigation in which the National Assembly would determine whether the holders of public functions responsible for the supervision of the work of public prosecutors carried out their work conscientiously and honestly or whether they affected the content and scope of the control in order to leave prosecution of perpetrators of crimes. Let us mention that the request of the Council of State of 16.2.2005, in our view, was not in conformity with the Law on Parliamentary Investigation. Therefore, we are surprised at the conduct of the President of the National Assembly, who, rather than sending an incomplete and inconsistent request to the Council of State to re-complement and demanding the other necessary corrections, in cooperation with the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, prepared proposals for additions and, it appears, coordinated them before deciding on the College of Presidents, both with the Council of State and with the other members of the College. The LDS Member Club was not involved in this coordination. In his efforts, he was satisfied only with this - namely, the President of the National Assembly - that, in the words of the Head of the Legislative and Legal Service, this addition, at least in a minimum and formal sense, meets the business criteria as to how the request for an investigation must be formulated. In doing so, she ignored the warnings of the law enforcement officials who responded to our criticisms. [[Quote]] : "We agree, however, that certain issues are raised in certain substantive relationships. We can agree on this, but this will have to be taken into account by the Commission further in its evidentiary decisions and in its determination of the way in which the parliamentary investigation will take place, in particular through a description of the public interest which is the subject of the investigation." [[End of quote.]] In the LDS, we believe that the initial purpose of the investigation should be to establish and assess the actual state of control over the work of state prosecutors, not in relation to the evaluation of the professional work of prosecutors, but with the appropriateness of the control mechanisms and, consequently, to determine whether these mechanisms were organised optimally at the implementing level and whether they were implemented in the manner set out. This means that, first of all, it is only possible to identify the objective responsibility of the holders of political functions who should be concerned about the adequacy of the control mechanisms. Here we are asked about the objective responsibility of the entire Government of the Republic of Slovenia, since, last but not least, it has an objective responsibility for the adequacy of the mechanisms for the supervision of the work of state prosecutors, as well as the National Assembly as a legislative body. Let us just recall the fact that the National Assembly is also aware of the State Prosecutor's Office's reports, in which it points to the problems it encounters in its work, when it comes to, say, that prosecutors in their reports often mention the needs for new personnel, they point out in the way they conduct procedures that could be optimised, etc. In the LDS, we also believe that it is only on the basis of an assessment of the actual situation that it is possible to identify the objective or subjective responsibility of the holders of political functions. However, subjective responsibility can only be identified in the case of political function holders who are directly responsible for the implementation of control mechanisms. Here, too, we must separate responsibility in terms of the responsibility to manage the supervision of the work of the State Prosecutor on the appropriate content and scope and on political responsibility or responsibility in terms of whether the holders of political functions to achieve political objectives have illegally influenced the work of the State Prosecutor's Office. In the LDS, we also point out that the exercise of powers and tasks of the various branches of government is separate. Any national authority exercising the function of State authority shall be limited to the constitutionally designated powers of another authority. Therefore, any interference by one State authority in the operation of another which is not justified in the Constitution constitutes its anti-constitutional operation. Everyone can therefore only act within the framework of his or her constitutional powers. In relation to the State Prosecutor's Office, the National Assembly must take into account the constitutional and legal position of the State Prosecutor's Office, in particular its professional autonomy and its position in relation to the judiciary, and must therefore not interfere with the position and functioning of the Prosecutor's Office, as provided for in the Constitution and the law. We therefore consider that the National Assembly cannot investigate the professionality or non-professionalness of the action of the State Prosecutor in specific cases, as provided for in the explanation of the request. The latter could mean that the Commission would review more than 10,000 files that prosecutors deal with annually. This, of course, is completely absurd. In particular, we cannot agree that the National Assembly should investigate individual matters and spend three hours and money on taxpayers to solve the personal problems of a state councillor. In the LDS, we are aware that the National Assembly must, at the request of the State Council, institute a parliamentary inquiry, but of course, we have a number of serious concerns regarding the content and basis of this investigation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u21	Thank you, Mrs. Bebler. I would like to invite Mr Miran Potrč to present the position of the United List of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! For the first time in this mandate, the National Assembly will launch a parliamentary inquiry. It will not be imposed on the basis of its own decision, but on the request of the State Council. And since the Republic of Slovenia also has a so-called minority investigation, which is not decided by the national assembly with the majority, today the National Assembly will only be able to find out that the request has been submitted. Each parliamentary investigation is usually accompanied by a lot of questions and assessments, not just by us, but especially when it comes to an inquiry on a request that is an unusual practice in the parliamentary countries of Europe. The same is true later for the conduct of the parliamentary investigation. Therefore, any parliamentary inquiry, which is generally accompanied by a great deal of media attention, requires the State Assembly to be responsible for respect for all, not always sufficiently clear, the rules on it, and in particular the responsibility to establish in the parliamentary inquiry those facts which may be the basis for deciding on the national assembly to amend legislation in specific areas or for the political responsibility of the holders of public functions and to take only decisions that are within the constitutional competence of the State Assembly. As the majority in the Commission of Inquiry and in the National Assembly finally always decide on these issues, the coalition has the greatest responsibility to establish and carry out the parliamentary investigation. This time it will be. The introduction of a parliamentary inquiry at the request of the Council of State this time, I believe, is accompanied by some circumstances which are not in favour of the introduction of a parliamentary investigation and the non-critical use of this institution. If the majority of the National Assembly were more consistent, the parliamentary investigation would not be decided today. Why? Firstly, because the Council of State as a proponent is not credible, it is itself in a constitutionally contentious position with regard to the rights it has chosen and enforced in the payment of salaries and various compensations. For a long time, the Council of State insisted that this unconstitutional position should be recognised and corrected on its own initiative, only by the decisions of the Court of Auditors and the initiatives of Members and, above all, by the public, it should be prepared to remedy such an unconstitutional situation on its own. The State authority acting in an unconstitutional manner shall exercise its constitutional authority from the national assembly and the third branch of power. Formally, maybe, but I think it's a little inconvenient. The implausibility of this request is also linked to the issue of the approval of Member State immunity of members of the State Council who initiated a request for parliamentary investigation, for an act which he had committed before he was elected a saint who had no connection with the management of the secular function, which he was already found guilty at the first stage and was committed for the purpose of obtaining unlawful property benefits. All the professional and political public considered such behaviour of the State Council inappropriate. The Constitutional Court has even repealed one of the grounds on which the State Council referred to it in its decision on immunity. However, such actions by the Council of State made it impossible for the Council to proceed with a criminal procedure that eventually expired. These actions also raise doubts, for me, about the credibility of the proposal itself. Third, the most controversial. The Council of State has proposed a parliamentary inquiry into the functioning of the Prosecutor's Office precisely because of the conduct against a saint who had previously unconstitutionally voted on his immunity. The specific conduct of the State Prosecutor in the contested case of this Councilor exercising immunity was the main reason and the most important evidence for the initiation of a parliamentary investigation against the State Prosecutor. The truths of love were also cited in some other cases, but it was entirely indisputable that the prosecution of the State Council had obtained a parliamentary investigation into its concrete actions against the contested state councilor. Such conduct of the State Council was, at last, far too much in public and fortunate in the National Assembly. Therefore, the College of the President of the National Assembly, on the basis of an expert assessment of the legislative and legal service, found that the request was constitutionally controversial and returned to the Council of State. Whether all warnings about the unconstitutionality and political inadequacy of the requirement have been clearly recorded in this regard is another issue. However, even all those who wished to settle with the State Prosecutor's Office had to admit that, on the basis of such a request, a parliamentary investigation could not be properly introduced. All the elements to be met by the parliamentary investigation were controversial. It was proposed on issues not within the competence of the National Assembly, which required intervention in the specific decisions of the third branch of government, which is contrary to the Constitution and would constitute an infringement of the rule of law and the principles of the division of power. The request showed that the State Council, as a high state authority, has no clear idea of the role and functions of the parliamentary investigation. Finally, at least part of the Council of State found out and sent a completely new request to the National Assembly in February. The new requirement under which we decide today is substantially amended. It deleted all the indications which had previously indicated that the National Assembly was to assess the work of the State Prosecutor in the specific criminal proceedings of their national council. However, the requirement remains very unclear on the issues to be addressed and on the purpose and objectives of the investigation. When the legislative and legal service reiterated this, the President of the National Assembly proposed to the College with the Council of State a harmonised text which, in the opinion of our Group of Members, was still unclear and contradictory. That is why we were unable to support such a minimally complementary proposal and we have proposed our additions, but in the majority, with our vote against and the vote of the Liberal Democracy, the College has harmonised the text, found that it is legally correct and that the National Assembly can take note of it. We felt that this was not good and therefore we just wanted to prepare the National Assembly to define the content of the parliamentary inquiry decision more clearly. When we proposed that this should be done by postponement of this point from today's meeting of the National Assembly, the President informed us that he would not comply with these requirements and that he would not even put it to the vote, because it is more important to define that the content of the requirement should be made at the first meeting of the National Assembly than whether the parliamentary inquiry was introduced in accordance with the constitutional role of the National Assembly. Since we had no other option than to at least partially correct the content, we proposed then to re-decision on the College of the President of the National Assembly before this meeting today and to form the content that has now been submitted, with which the Council of State also agreed. More and more substantively, we could not coordinate these requirements because the representative of the Council of State did not attend the College meeting and the President of the National Assembly allowed this. Nevertheless, I would like to say that I am assessing that the proposal now formally may only meet the conditions for the initiation of a parliamentary investigation. Reflecting on all the reasons behind the request alone may also benefit our work together. I believe that it can now be said that it is a constitutional framework that allows the assessment of the situation, to establish a basis for possible legislative change, an assessment of the extent and content of the legal control exercised in the previous mandate, and an assessment of the possible conduct of individual public function holders who would have an unacceptable impact on the specific conduct of the prosecution. If the Commission of Inquiry so wishes, on the basis of such content of the requirements on the first two issues, it is said that, with regard to the appropriateness of legislation and supervision, it is very soon possible to draw up an evidentiary decision, carry out evidence and develop assessments and proposals. If so, it will be important to assess the functioning and improvement of the public image and the functioning of the state prosecutor's organisation, which is certainly what we all want. It will also allow for an assessment of where possible weaknesses in the legislative regulation of the situation, jurisdiction and mutual relations in the prosecution, including a comparison of regulation in some of the most comparable countries. This will be important for any change in legislation or at least for a majority assessment of its adequacy, as there are now often completely irresponsible and populist assessments of what should be changed in legislation. In the Group of Members of the United Nations Social Democrats, we hope that, in the above-mentioned directions, the conduct of the parliamentary inquiry may, despite the procedure it has produced, contribute to the consolidation of the principles of the rule of law and to the greater effectiveness, the legitimate functioning and reputation of the judiciary. However, if it detects the suspicion of politically wrongful and unacceptable behaviour of public officials, we expect that this suspicion will clearly identify, identify potential perpetrators and suggest evidence that it will also in this respect clearly determine whether or not this is a case of misconduct, not at the same time as we are doing now. We therefore hope that it will be made possible through active action in the direction indicated, and in this direction expresses our readiness also to ensure the functioning of the Commission of Inquiry by ensuring that it is in accordance with its constitutional competences and will follow the purpose it may have, not the original objectives for which it has been invested. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u23	Thank you, Mr. Potch. The position of New Slovenia will be presented by Mr Aloise Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u24	Mr President, representative of the Council of State, fellow Member and Members of Parliament! The Commission of Inquiry must be set up, so we are confident in New Slovenia, because that is what the Council of State demanded. Wages in the state world cannot be a reason to think about setting up this commission, even less so that the salaries of this commission cannot be established. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that Comrade Zupan, mentioned as the reason for the establishment of this Commission, is only one of the members of the Council of State, while the Council of State is a collective body that has adopted this initiative by a majority of votes. But I would like to say, with what I am now listening to in public, and when I saw Omisje last night, or what it is called, on RTV Slovenia, on behalf of New Slovenia, the following. If this commission, because of the independence and independence of the judicial system - it is said, prosecutors, judges, which is constantly emphasized by us with great emphasis - and the division of power will not be allowed to investigate individual cases such as Orion, Zbilijski Gaj, SIB, the Red Cross, although the case is already closed there; then the railway case, in our opinion, is questionable if it is not even meaningless. For she will not be able to answer what is expected of this commission. Unless individual cases are dealt with, it is not possible to establish what is stated in this provision. If I simplify how internal control of the work of prosecutors has been carried out or how internal control works at all. Has politics influenced the work of prosecutors in the past? And if, in what cases and to what extent there was possible illegality. It cannot determine the political responsibilities of the holders of public functions. Last night I understood Mrs Zdenko Cerar, who felt that this commission was set up to investigate her work; of course, this is not in this regulation. Without dealing with individual cases, the Commission will not be able to detect shortcomings in our legislation, nor will it propose any amendments to the legislation currently in force. I would say that with us, it is constantly intertwined with the independence of the prosecution, the judiciary and in some ways now the independence of the prosecutors is compared and pushed into the same degree of independence as the court, although the Constitution clearly defines what the work of the prosecutors is, and also of the recognized lawyer Dr. Pirant, I understood that in fact, this independence of the prosecutors is not equal to the independence of the judiciary. I don't know what those who say about the fact that this inviolability is such a big one would say to what we read in the evening newspaper today, that, for example, the American Congress passed the Terri Schiavo case by law from state to federal court, and that this federal court immediately made a different decision than it had been at the state level; but it was a woman who had been in a coma for 15 years and an extremely big problem that appeared there. Of course, it is quite clear that the Commission of Inquiry can determine the subject and I think it will. However, it is already clear, following the opening statements by my speakers, that this commission will have major difficulties in doing so. Clearly, it is the purpose of everything to happen so that nothing will happen; we are actually experts in this country. In Novi Slovenija we will not agree to this, because if we do, then we are not worthy of representatives of the Slovenian people, because, as I have already said, we are the only Members and President of the Republic directly elected for a period of four or five years, in secret direct elections. This institution, however, gives Members the right and duty to point out irregularities if they are detected and to demand answers from all those who decide on behalf of the people. So independence - yes, and by no means do we compare independence with inviolability in New Slovenia. In Novi Slovenija, we are actually interested in how many proceedings have been dismissed and what cases have been taken. And we expect this commission to receive an answer to this question. And what I'm about to say is the most important thing. In our opinion, a parliamentary inquiry would be useful if it were to determine the responsibility of the property prosecution over the past five years. The results of the parliamentary inquiry should reveal the country's responsibility in wild privatisation during the period of transition. According to informal data, this particular area has been carefully covered and hidden under carpets in the past. Who took care of it and why it did so to investigate this commission, and in New Slovenia we will explicitly support it and hope that we will also have an answer to it. Only then will it be possible to restore confidence in the judicial branch of power. Let me get this straight. In our belief, there is a reasonable suspicion that there is something very wrong in our prosecution, and today personal cases have been discussed here. I have to say from this place that I have, not that I want anything in this direction to be done, but that I have my own concerns because I have been in the process for seven years, and then not even forgiven or convicted, but the case is simply obsolete. This, of course, is unacceptable. If someone is guilty, he must be convicted, but if he is not guilty, of course he must be forgiven. This would be the rule of law and then we would expect the prosecution and the judiciary to be able to say that it works as it should. The cases cited last night by Mrs Cerarova, such as the case of Fisher, Bole, Glavar, Ironworks, which was in super-audit, are so marginal and, compared to the developments in the area of corporate property transformation, so banal that they are not worth mentioning and diverting public attention from the real problems of the Slovenian prosecution. The Commission, as I have already said, will have a lot of problems, I have been a member of the Commission, and I know what obstacles have been put before us, and perhaps now that the government coalition has changed, it will be a little easier. I would like to point out once again that such a commission has jurisdiction over the court. In the case of Friday we encountered many problems when we wanted to exercise these powers in the same way. And one more thing, there are articles in the paper, if the previous commissions have not done their job and we are setting up another commission just for the sake of the commission. I would like to say that Article 22 of the Rules of Procedure on the Commission of Inquiry clearly states what the Commission must do. Finally, the Commission should draw up a report and propose conclusions to the national assembly. However, if in the past there is a national assembly with some other majority of the draft decisions that it did not wish to adopt and in fact you are not, colleagues from the United List and the LDS, then this is no longer the responsibility of the Commission and, of course, you will have to take responsibility for yourself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u25	Thank you, Mr. Sok. I invite Mr Jakob Preseknik to present the position of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Therefore, the Group of Members will of course support the proposal to launch a parliamentary inquiry, which is the subject of today's item. The proposal meets all the conditions for the initiation of this investigation, but of course we will be happy - I think it will be quite brief - if any of what my predecessor has said is going to happen and that I will not go into trouble if this investigative commission finds out and moves any of this to move forward, but of course we will be very happy. Well, we'll support the start of the work of this investigative commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u27	Thank you, Mr. President. I invite Mr Ivan Yelen to present the position of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u28	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members. I take the position of the DeSUS Group on the proposal for an act setting out a parliamentary inquiry into the political responsibility of the holders of public functions in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, at the Ministry of Justice and the Office of the State Prosecutor of the Republic of Slovenia concerning the exercise of control under the law of the State Prosecutor's Office, Official Gazette of the Republic of Slovenia No. 110/02. Although at the beginning of the parliamentary group, we have had doubts about supporting acts to determine the parliamentary inquiry that was put into the parliamentary procedure, we will support it, because we believe that its text is now prepared so that the proposal meets the legal requirements. It is clear from the view expressed by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly that the additional requirement for the determination of a parliamentary inquiry in a formal, minimum aspect is adequately resolved or takes into account all the required business criteria, so that we do not see any further reservations to support the requirement for the determination of a parliamentary inquiry.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u29	Thank you, Mr. Yellen. The final speaker, Bogomir Zammernik, will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Nice greetings, respectable colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the Group of Members, I will not go to the level of what was the original and the real reason, as some of the Group of Members have done. We think that this is more or less the internal thing of those who have talked about it, because these people, as far as I know, come from these kinds; and as I say, this is kind of an internal thing, and I stress that we are not going to go to this level. We have focused only on what is the subject of today's debate, not decision-making. It has been pointed out too often that today we will decide, that we will only get to know and not vote on the request of the Council of State, as set out in the first sentence of Article 4(2) of the Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Investigation. This request sets out what the purpose of the investigation is. The purpose of the investigation is to determine the scope and content of the control actually carried out by law and the possible personal responsibility of the holders of public functions. Yesterday, after this broadcast, which was repeatedly mentioned today, I spoke to a long-standing Attorney-General, and later the Minister, and she told me herself that she had encountered difficulties as a leader of the prosecution, because when she found the prosecutor's job, she could only give the prosecutor a warm warning and urge him to work better, but there were no instruments to prepare him to do better. Therefore, any step that will be taken to improve these things is certainly worth doing. And if this is the establishment of a parliamentary commission of inquiry, it is one of the steps. Chinese wisdom says the longest path begins with the first step. And let's take this step. I'm sure it can't hurt. The next point in the investigation is to determine the degree of involvement of individual public function holders. Here, of course, the matter is also quite clear. Although we received different opinions from different legal institutions and legal professionals in the investigative commission I led in the previous term, with the definition of who are the holders of public functions, which could be the subject of an investigation, if I put it that way. And here there were different opinions and perhaps this Commission can do something about this. And to identify the causes and circumstances that may lead to the illegal, irresponsible work of the state prosecutor, and - this seems most important - to amend the legislation, which is, of course, only our jurisdiction, so that what I said in the first paragraph is called control of the prosecutor, which will be given to the Attorney General or any other professionally qualified body, changes this ability to do so. That is not to say what the proposer or representative of the applicants was talking about, that some prosecutor does not even apply to the court for a detention warrant for someone where, of course, I will now lazily assess, a very large possibility of re-services of crime. We know the copra case. There is no need to be a legal expert here to reflect on such behavior. Like I said, we don't decide anything today. We're just getting acquainted with the request. However, our Group will also work to ensure that these objectives are achieved in the next part of the Commission of Inquiry. And with this purpose, we already support the functioning of this commission in advance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u31	Thank you very much, Mr. Zammernik. And I apologize for misinterpreting your last name. We are done with the presentation of the views of the Group and are moving on to the debate of Members and Members. At this point, I would like to draw the attention of the representative of the Council of State to the fact that, as a candidate, he has the right to comment on his proposal at any time during the debate and, of course, this right automatically belongs to him at the end of the debate. Thus, Mr Ilc, if you wish to intervene, you can, of course, take the floor in accordance with Rule 66(4) of the Rules of Procedure. The first is Mrs Mojca Kucler Dolinar.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u32	Thank you very much. Good-bye! So, as we have already established, we have before us the request of the Council of State to launch a parliamentary inquiry into the political responsibility of the holders of public functions in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Ministry of Justice and the Attorney General's Office. There is therefore not much left for us Members. Under the provisions of the Constitution, under the provisions of the Law and Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Investigation, the National Assembly of Inquiry must introduce an investigation. Therefore, we cannot vote on the introduction or non-implementation, but it is up to us to take advantage of the conclusions that the Commission will come to in its subsequent decisions. Given some indications that Members do not know that power is divided into three branches in our country and that we should not get involved in other branches of government, some may forget to point out that the National Assembly, in addition to the legislative role, also has an electoral and supervisory role. Especially with parliamentary questions and debates on committees, but also with the possibility of initiating a parliamentary investigation. The parliamentary commission even has the powers of the judicial authorities. Therefore, the prohibition of involving other branches of authority in the judicial branch applies to the specific decisions of judges, prosecutors and this is undoubtedly the case. The Constitution already clearly sets out the independence of judges in the exercise of judicial office, but I must and must, with all due respect for judges and prosecutors, acknowledge that the situation in the judiciary has reached a level of concern in a broader sense. In this regard, I will mention several times the study that the media have shown us during the pre-election period, from which the confidence of the Slovenians in the trial at the bottom of the scale was based. And of course, here all three branches of power must ask us the question of where the cause is and how to eliminate it. Is the law a problem? Or in its implementation or for some objective reasons? Or perhaps for subjective reasons? Above all, I am asked here whether, by reference to the principle independence of the third branch of government, it can be said that, in the long run, the work of prosecutors and the work of judges is only an internal matter of the prosecution or of the court. Why do I ask that? Because it is precisely the limit of eligibility or inequitableness of a parliamentary inquiry as to whether it is a matter of becoming a public matter. And if excessive judicial backlogs occur, if around 200 files are lost in the prosecutor's office, if the prosecutions do not have an effective traceability system, i.e. monitoring and alerting when it comes to obsolete cases, if serious suspicions of delaying individual cases are raised in the public eye, then this could be an indicator that the matter is becoming a public issue. Members of the Home Committee have already considered the report on the work of state prosecutors for 2003 and have concluded that the State Prosecutor's Office must complete the report, because the data on the prosecution of perpetrators of crimes have been cited quite cheaply and unsystematicly. With all due respect to Slovenian prosecutors and judges, the fact that their work is legal is something wrong or something is wrong. I hope that the parliamentary commission, led by the President, will endeavour to identify and assess the situation so that we can make any necessary decisions in the National Assembly, including in the case of necessary legislative changes, which will have a positive impact on the improvement of the situation in justice in a broader sense; for the benefit of both those who work in the judiciary, judges and prosecutors and their leaders, as well as those who find themselves in these proceedings, whether will or will not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u33	Thank you. I would like to take the floor and invite Mr. Frank Kangler. He's not here. Then Mr. Anton Kokalja. He's not here either. And then Mr. Joseph Jerovsk, who is.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a qualified request for the introduction of an investigative parliamentary investigation into work or the political responsibility of the holders of public functions in the RS government, the Ministry of Justice and the Attorney General's Office. I must say, I think this will be the most difficult investigative commission. Regardless of the causes that have been dictated or triggered, I can hardly imagine how this commission can be successful. But I'm not joining this in public, which has so far been deliberately staged, that investigative commissions are inefficient, unsuccessful. As far as it is true, based on practice, investigative commissions have been largely successful in the last two mandates, except for those on Dadas and those where there was no interest. Many have contributed to the move of the Friday case, the Vič-Holmec case, the Elan-Elana case, the Slovenian company would no longer be there if the Puksič commission, although it was then again, made a strange amount of profits from Elan into special accounts. However, this Commission of Inquiry will face extraordinary challenges in its work. In fact, how can you imagine that these prosecutions will be extremely fruitful in working with the commission of inquiry when they are actually on the wallpaper? Because so far, we've had, say, an investigation into the Vit-Holmec affair of knowingly stalling, concealing the documents of Prosecutor Fischer. For eight months, he refused to hand over the documentation because he was defending a particular criminal who intervened in the human rights of a journalist. With respect to most of the prosecutors, most of the judges. However, the fact is that this branch of power is also very guilty within its own species, that the situation in the public and in the field is, in fact, in practice, the same as it is. She has not been able in her own kind to expel those prosecutors who have not actually acted in accordance with their legal responsibility. There are no such cases. And if we ask ourselves now, let's say why the prosecutions had this strong selectivity about the speed of handling certain cases. The fact is that this selectivity has occurred in all these years. Wild ownership has already been mentioned - it has not been sanctioned and has not been considered in practice. For example, there is no complaint regarding the conduct of bankruptcy managers in matters of Maribor. Why is it not timely for these bankruptcys to take place for decades, and the bankruptcy law clearly states in Article 11 that bankruptcy must be rapid? Why wasn't that? Here, in this committee, it will probably be necessary to examine, but I doubt that there will be any conclusion as to whether the power of former repressive authorities is constantly happening in the prosecutions. Let's say, at the time of the Judgment, when they put a note in the file, "Close it, don't treat it." And there was no further consideration of the matter. Practice, looking back, it looks like it's similar. Some of the files, some of the cases closed down and were waiting for an outage, not only those who were discovered to have held back some 100 files in the closet, where possible even negligence, but a very high degree of selectivity in the handling and referral of cases to the court. And for this reason, of course, the prosecution, as a body in the past period, is very much responsible for the general feeling that there is no rule of law in society. And it's actually not enough. And because of this, once again, this committee will also have to be adequately supported in the National Assembly. I hope that the media will not turn against it, as in the case of some investigative commissions in the past, when they have always stressed, are not productive, are not productive. And they did not sometimes want to see productivity or real problems. And because of this, I am also against you talking from some parties about the genetics of the creation of this commission of inquiry that they have produced - perhaps indeed or even indeed - individuals because of their personal affairs. At the same time, you do not want to say that these individuals are the senior officials of your customers and that the directors of the richest state-owned companies were, at the will of your customers, you have placed them, you have extended them. You don't want to say that. And that in those areas, when they were your clients' candidates, they did a lot of things wrong. Certainly, and therefore this unjustifiable negative journey to this investigative commission, which, as I said, awaits a very difficult work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u35	Thank you. As I can see, Mr Marenčič, Mr Kramberger and Mr Squeak are gone, so I give my word to Mr Mohet.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u36	Thank you so much for saying that. I'll get to the forerunner. We both have a lot of experience in parliamentary investigations, and it is true that what is rightly circulating in the public is that so far parliamentary investigations have been conducted in most cases of kilowatts, that they have not produced any results; an exception is possible, Mr. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Can Mr Jerovšek always speak to me as Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Policy or as a Member, I don't know? [[..]] Please. May I please, Mr Jerovšek, speak?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u37	Mr. Moge has the floor. Please take note of this.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u38	Thank you very much. And if we look at the parliamentary investigation process itself, we should say that we are to a large extent guilty of not having parliamentary investigations, which would ultimately produce certain fruits. Dear colleagues and colleagues, starting, giving an initiative for parliamentary inquiry, is very easy when there is an act ordering members, the President and what should be done, but when there is an evidentiary decision, there is always an end to proceedings because such a parliamentary inquiry, for the first time, does not have sufficient support by the National Assembly. If this were to be the case, so that the presidents of parliamentary investigations could also use more people to help them, experienced and even from outside, the results would be different, and the president of this parliamentary investigation with a group of people and to carry all the burden on his shoulders with another professional worker, he must, clearly, lead such a thing to a dead end. Look, in a criminal procedure that can't be compared to this, he's got a court case before he gets to the D.A., and I don't know who else from the police to get rid of these cases through some professional channels. What does our commission or our President have in mind when the investigation begins, like that decision, no documents, nothing, and then, of course, from the start of this investigation, lead on the basis of the evidentiary decision that this Commission adopts. And I think that that article, which defines the tasks of the parliamentary commission of inquiry, is too loose, too loose, because it allows the parliamentary commissions of inquiry to only pursue the search for consequences and the improvement of laws, which, if they were correct enough, could also do a lot of work in the home labour bodies. And it seems to me that the greatest disadvantage is that, even in one to the present, as far as I know, the parliamentary investigation has not been conducted by a person whose main purpose is to investigate these parliamentary investigations, that is to say, the involvement of public function holders in irregularities is sought. That's not what it was until now. Perhaps even with such a thought that as soon as you appoint an investigator, this one brings along a bunch of lawyers who cost the country dearly, so this support, it is possible to see all the acts of the investigative commission and, on the other hand, the poor president with the professional worker opposes this person and probably in a legal sense, respected colleagues and colleagues, has not grown up. As a result, it seems to me that as long as we have such evidentiary conclusions where there will be no subject, this will not move from a dead point, because the matter will become mature and difficult only when the first person is a subject; then there will be two genders and then the responsibility of the public function holders will be investigated. That's not how it happened. And it would make sense if we could take care of the different groups that surround us, from the hunters, the fishermen and so on, so that we could clean our Auggie's barn once and for all, and that we would also work so that the Members could do better. Here I am thinking mainly of the Law on Members, the Law on Parliamentary Investigation and so on, which prevent us from enjoying greater public reputation. As for this requirement, I think that if we respect - and respect this here - the principles of the rule of law that no one will oppose. I think we've been over this. However, I agree with those of you who said that the main work in this parliamentary investigation and the main reputation that the media will place in front of the national assembly will be that when the evidentiary decision is taken and when we go to the realization of this evidentiary decision. I would be if we had a change of this law, even for this - somehow I would be willing to try to make an amendment - if there were no interrogator in one year, whether such an investigation should be terminated or whether the National Assembly should be asked again to continue such an investigation. Then, at least in the end, they could come to some conclusions and eventually show whether the public function holders were involved or not. Otherwise, this is not a court, a parliamentary inquiry, it is a political decision as to whether the holders of public functions have been involved in certain irregularities. I support parliamentary investigations because, finally, when such parliamentary investigations are launched, they also have the effect that the areas covered by such a parliamentary investigation should start to work more correctly or with a greater degree of responsibility. In our case, however, I think the purpose of this investigation is as follows. This investigation is primarily another stone in the mosaic of political discipline of law enforcement authorities. We have seen a change in the law that will allow for human resources change, not only in the position of Director-General, as we hear, we will also get a new state prosecutor with clear political preferences. By the way, those who have expressed themselves most offensively about this candidate today support and support the initiation of this investigation. Why? Those prosecutors and police officers who have not yet identified where the dog is praying are destined for this parliamentary investigation, and it is not the devil that they do not miss it in the end. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I want this parliamentary commission to be confirmed and when people choose to run this parliamentary commission to make this commission work really well, I will congratulate anyone who can run for president and try to take on all the things that come from this function. It would be very sad, however, if this parliamentary inquiry were to end up just because the biggest proceeds of this investigation would be increased media burdens. I forgive myself if I have been a little long, after all we are talking about taxpayers' money - these investigative commissions cost money. But what I was talking about, at least the leaders of the parliamentary groups, or those responsible in the national council, should once be taken under the magnifying glass and weighed. The MP who was in this assembly was a mastermind from the parliamentary inquiry, this material is available, and several times in previous mandates was an initiative to change this law, and, of course, if it were the will of all political parties, we could also change this law in this direction, so that these parliamentary investigations would be an example for people of how Members or the National Assembly are doing, but not that in the end we always reap that we were, under the terms of, "fail". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u39	Thank you. I would like to take the floor and invite Master Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Colleagues, colleagues. A lot of my thoughts have been said in the previous debate. But the facts are very simple and the following. It is probably one of the inadmissible policy interventions in the field of justice and prosecution, where we, as the legislative body and as a policy, have nothing to look for. All this story, in which I have no doubt that it will not be confirmed in this place and that it will receive majority support, because the interest of the ruling coalition is incontrovertible and clear at this point, but it reminds me of an old-fashioned proverb, which in Slovenian would well say: how to love and remain innocent at the same time. Of course, this is about the innocent being left with only some, those who love each other - and for that there must be two - and they would condemn only one thing or one piece of this pair. Some of the judgments are notable, to which Europe is also surprised, because it is a matter of proving some legal error and similar, they point in this direction, where the taco belt prays, as Mr Rudi said, that I will push the police to push the prosecutors to investigate only some, the real ones. With regard to the lesson for the rear, we will not discover much there; for, as the old said, if you want a matter never to come to the day, then only one commission must be set up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Since Mr Anderlich is not here, I give the floor to Mr Dimitri Kovacic.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u42	Colleagues and colleagues! The fact is, in recent years, people's confidence in the judicial institutions has fallen significantly. This means that this should be a very serious sign of action, so that the necessary measures will restore and restore this trust. There have been far too many unresolved affairs, from SIB Banka, Orion, Zbiljski Gaj and many others, where, despite the apparent criminal conduct so far, no one has been in a criminal position to answer. In my opinion, the reason for the judicial authorities' inadequate response is also due to such or other political pressure on these bodies, which has led to cases being adequately resolved. I didn't agree to think that a flawed or bad legislation was the reason for the bad work of justice. I am more inclined to believe that bad work is due either to inadequate conduct of individual justice institutions or to inadequate organisation of individual judicial bodies. Of course, even or in particular, this may also result in poor control over their work. In particular, the prosecution's function in this area has been exposed to the highest criticism. According to the general belief, the prosecution is extremely ineffective and I believe that this general belief also truly reflects the actual situation in this area. It is not only specific cases such as the case of the Iron Prosecutor, for example, but because of many, at first glance unusual and illogical prosecution decisions or behaviours, where the supervisory function, which is normally also compromised by the system, is generally defined by the law and the constitution. This situation is, of course, primarily the responsibility of the Supreme State Prosecutor's Office, but indirectly also the Justice Ministry and, of course, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Due to a worrying situation, as I can see for myself, the Council of State requires the establishment of a parliamentary investigative commission on the political responsibility of the holders of public functions in the RS Government, the Ministry of Justice and the Attorney General's Office for the performance of their functions during the period of the previous term of office 2000-2004. I myself have a request from the Council of State that it is very acceptable and I think that it will be able to contribute to the determination of certain irregularities and to establish the political responsibility of individual holders of public functions who are responsible for the poor situation in the field of the work of the prosecutions. The greatest importance of the establishment of a parliamentary commission of inquiry and its work will be that it will also contribute to a different way of thinking in the prosecution ranks, a more demanding and honest work, as well as in the knowledge that a good and effective prosecutorial work is one of those demands that must be met so that we can talk about the rule of law. My opinion is that the work of the State Prosecutor's Office cannot be isolated from the public's view and supervision, so I think that the establishment of a parliamentary commission of inquiry will constitute an important step towards greater transparency of the prosecutor's work, which must be subject to more legal forms of control in the future than ever before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u43	Thank you. Mrs. Majda Shirtz has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u44	Thank you very much. I find it difficult to agree with my predecessor on the purpose and effectiveness of such an investigative commission, especially because I think the purpose of the commission of inquiry, which we will have to set up, is quite unclear. It's nonsense, not just meaningful, but more. The first nonsensence comes from my opinion from the original, in the phrase "sin" as it went to the genetics for the establishment of this commission of inquiry, because obviously we are going to introduce it, because some state councilman was not satisfied with being convicted of a crime, and so he also protected himself with immunity. In fact, instead of investigating responsibility, perhaps even state councillors for this shamefully granted immunity, we will investigate the conduct of state prosecutors whose conduct was [[....]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Mr Jerovšek, please, whose conduct has been duly confirmed by the judgments of all the courts which have dealt with and condemned Mr Zupan. [[....]] In short, on the one hand, we have prosecutors who have done their job correctly - and I claim this because the court has also ruled - and on the other hand, the state councillor who wanted to legitimize his reference to immunity by predicting that immunity would be waived if he was served and started investigating the work of prosecutors. This is a totally wrong world. However, that the majority of parliaments suddenly supports these findings, as only an investigation, seems more farce to us than a serious matter. Another issue I have already pointed out is what this parliamentary commission is actually going to investigate. According to my opinion and predictions, she will first deal with half the mandate, if not more, with the subject and with the definition of her work. Unless, of course, this is already defined in this unwritten scenario by yourself. For, for example, if I refer to the justification for the commission of inquiry, for example, here we read that in 2003 the prosecutions brought proceedings against 14,752 persons. In the absence of a record of these cases, there is a likelihood that there may be cases among them that do not deserve to be prosecuted or at least not on the basis referred to above. 14,752 cases will be open to this investigative commission. She will choose between them, she can open them all because there is an assumption and the likelihood that these procedures were incomplete. In short, such mistrust is excessive and comes not only from the already mentioned background, which is motivated by one person and may be one of these 14,752 cases, but mainly with some unwritten scenario that we do not see here, but it is assumed to be. And who's gonna do that? Someone, perhaps someone in the National Assembly who doesn't even know the laws and finds himself in a legal mess. Such cases would probably require a lot of expertise and a lot of apparatus that would be more skilled and could enhance behaviour that is allegedly controversial and knowledge of prosecutors. That is why I believe that the whole intention of this Commission of Inquiry is to intimidate, create doubts and, of course, adapt political will. Mr Jerovšek, you replied earlier that the parliamentary commissions had failed to achieve their objectives in the past also because this was misrepresented in the media somewhere and because the media were somehow guilty because they were not properly reported if I summarized your thinking. Perhaps the media did not report according to your taste, but undoubtedly the failure or not the goals of some, but not all, investigative commissions should not be sought in the media, but elsewhere. My position is to reiterate that this kind of commission of inquiry is politically motivated, will not achieve its objectives, will have a lot of problems and will also be introduced with pretenses that are not exactly worthy of this work, this energy, let alone costs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u45	Thank you. Mr Jerovšek, did the MP misinterpret your statement? You just don't have time. Discussions and replicas are also counted at the time of discussion, so unfortunately this is no longer possible. The word is "Miran Potch."
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u46	Thank you very much. I have tried to present in the introduction how we understand the constitutional consistency of this parliamentary investigation, and in this context we will also try to organise and act within it. Indeed, talking about judicial independence is already a clear expression of how the constitutional function of justice is understood. To speak of the commission having jurisdiction of the court is, of course, the following thing and I recommend that the person who said that he should go read the constitution to see that in the function of inquiry and study is being heard by witnesses and so on - has a function that could come to terms, but these are not courts. And there was a lot of other things that I was more concerned about than I was at the beginning of the session, which concerned me in the sense that step by step creates an atmosphere in which political pressure would be exerted on the concrete decision-making of the various branches of justice. Ladies and gentlemen, please consider this direction, because this is the worst we can do in this country. Because, however, the authorities will be changing in one way or another, and if we have our own colors of judges each time, the former ones will be judged wrongly, and now others have to judge correctly, and this way the rule of law cannot be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u47	Thank you. As a last resort, Mrs Darja Lavtijar Bebler submitted to the debate. [[Back-up advertising.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u49	Wait a minute! Were you misunderstood? [[Back-up advertising.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u50	So, "to this end, he appoints a commission which has the same powers as the judicial authority in matters of inquiry and examination." That's all I wanted to read, the last sentence of Article 93. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u51	Thank you. Now, indeed, Mrs. Bebler.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u52	Thank you so much for saying that. Yeah, well, that's the problem, which was just said here. In fact, two eminent members of two eminent coalition political parties here today said that the parliamentary investigation or parliamentary commission of inquiry had the same powers as the court. This, you see, is a very big, serious mistake, a mistake that we may be deeply concerned about. And if the person who makes that statement had read not only the Constitution but, of course, the Law on Parliamentary Investigation, but also the Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Investigation, he could not have said that. I would now like to refer here to the position I have previously advocated as a representative of the parliamentary club, which is this: we do not oppose any investigative commission, no parliamentary investigation, if it is supported by the provisions of the Constitution and the law, and where we do not run into any aspects of this investigation which are clearly contrary to the Constitution and the purpose of the investigative commissions. By the way, in the debate, someone even compared this specific parliamentary inquiry with one that is ongoing in the United States, and, of course, this comparison is even more inappropriate, because of course it is a completely different constitutional structure, a completely different nature of the countries we are talking about. We are therefore rightly concerned, especially after such statements as we are witnessing to them today. More than once, last night's show was quoted under the headlight. Let me remind you, for example, what Mr Pirnat said yesterday in this broadcast, who is an expert in such areas: "The interference with the independence and independence of the State Prosecutor's Office as a constitutional institution by other branches of government is not permissible. However, the National Assembly may examine the political involvement of holders of public powers who have political powers if they have become involved in the work of the Prosecutor’s Office and have tried to influence it or have influenced it. However, sanctions are provided for in the State Prosecutor's Act to punish prosecutors who are guilty of their duties. If the National Assembly considers that they are not adequate, of course it has in its hands an appropriate tool for this." This was said by an eminent expert. And it is in this that we insist that one branch of power cannot interfere with another branch of power when it comes to interfering with the powers that this other branch of power has by the constitution. Mr Jožef Jerovšek said he was afraid that this investigative commission would have great difficulties in its work, because if it was not possible, if I understood you correctly, to count on some appropriate co-operation by the prosecution, after the work they were supposed to be searching for. Let me tell you, Mr Jerovšek, for example, that Mrs Barbara Brezigar, a member of the team for the review of the work of prosecutors, who is certainly very well-trained, even so much as we know, will now be appointed Attorney-General. And I wonder why a skeptic like that? That the prosecution would not be in these cases, which the investigating commission would investigate in this respect. And then let me also say that, of course, I am very pleased that the Slovenian People's Party is so vehemently supporting such an investigation. With that, I give you all the credit. In fact, why? It is unfortunate that we know that the Minister of Justice also has the possibility and obligation to supervise the work of state prosecutors. And we know that in the mandates since 1996, the Ministers of Justice have been members of the Slovenian People's Party all the time; first, Mr Marusic and then Mr Bizjak. Well, in the semi-annual reign of the Bajuk government, Mrs Brezigarev, Minister of Justice, was once again. So I, for example, don't see any problems here that we can't, let's say, even trust that these ministers have played their part well. Perhaps you have any doubts about whether she played an appropriate supervisory role in the half-year when she was Minister of Justice, Mrs Cerarjevo. Well, we'll be able to discuss that. In short, we are concerned about how some Members represent the work of such an investigative commission at home. And in view of the majority that is currently in the national assembly, of course, we are all the more concerned. And if some believe that this commission of inquiry will have problems, because members of the LDS Commission or members of the United Kingdom are going to make problems with regard to the LDS Group, I can assure you that we will be doing problems as long as, of course, we consider that this Commission is beyond its powers and that it works or wants to act contrary to the Constitution and the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u53	Thank you. Because the representative of the state council isn't Mr. Presecnik, the replica? [[...]] You just haven't discussed it. You can't have a replica. If you wait another second to finish, it's time to get ahead and you can sign up for the debate. Since there is no representative of the Council of State, I conclude that it does not wish to further explain its position. As we're told, we have an hour and 45 minutes, so I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss it? Mr. Sok. Anyone else? So far, I have recorded the following Members: Mr Sok, Jerovška, Presecnik and Kovacic, Mr Ptrč, Mr Cvikl. Anyone else? Of course, everyone has five minutes, no matter how much time there is, and I'd just like to start with Mr. Sock.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Mrs Beblereva, a fellow Member, did not name me, but she touched on some of my views, which I said as the leader of the Group of Members, on behalf of the Group of Members. But if she has already disputed the views of the Group of Members, let me answer her. 93. Article 93, since this has previously been cleared with Mr Ptrče, says: "The National Assembly may order an inquiry into matters of public interest, but it must do so at the request of a third of the members of the National Assembly or at the request of the State Council, and then appoint a committee which, in matters of inquiry and examination, has the same powers as the judicial authorities." That makes sense, Counselor. Of course, this commission can't lock anyone up, so some other authorities can. This means meaningful, it is said, within the framework of what this commission can do. Then, in the rules of procedure of the Commission of Inquiry, Articles 8, 9, 10, 11 and 12. Just as you can read it, we can also read it to wrongdoers, but it may be true that we have many different interpretations in this country. I myself have been a member of one of the investigative commissions, and I must say that it is only through the views of the National Assembly that we have reached, through the decisions taken at the National Assembly, that both the Minister of the Interior and the Attorney-General have begun to cooperate with the Commission in accordance with this Rules of Procedure and have submitted to the Commission some of the documents requested by the Commission. For they interpreted, especially the Attorney-General, that our investigation did not touch on certain other questions and certain particulars or documents they did not wish to deliver, then after the intervention of the National Assembly, we cleared up these dilemmas. But as for your conclusion, of course, that in America they have a completely different judicial arrangement, that I agree with this, I don't know how, I know only that the Supreme Court sometimes votes there, and it's tight with four to five or five to four. I have rarely found that our Constitutional Court would ever vote, more or less, on all decisions taken unanimously, especially in this composition, as it is now; this is said to be an essential difference. But that's what I mentioned, this entry in today's newspaper, how we always operate on this inviolability, not just independence, but inviolability. So the judicial branch of power can do what the independent branch of government thinks is good. And I know what a cry and a cry this judicial branch of power triggered when a German judge Doukoff wrote a report on a government order. He was told that he was involved in the Slovenian judicial system, that he did not understand, but was present here for two years and was also paid to write one report, which, of course, was not encouraging, was not after the taste of those concerned. Well, in this context, I mentioned that the U.S. Congress with the Law, it says in the media, I don't know, I don't know, I believe in the evening newspaper, that he transferred the case from the State Attorney's Office to the federal court. It also states that the President of the State suspended his leave to sign such a law, that then immediately the next step of the Federal Court was clearly a different decision than the State Court had so far defended. I wanted to point out this: if we tried something like this, I know that Mr. Potts would all jump up to the ceiling and say what a terrible intervention this is. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] . You would have jumped safely up there, I believe, at least as far as the use of a variety of strong arguments and words is concerned. Well, that's what I wanted to point out, but, of course, I'm aware that there's a lot of things different there than with us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u55	Thank you. Mrs. Bebler was misinterpreted, understood? Yeah, replicate.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Regardless of what Mr Sok has just read from the Constitution, as we know of course, I still say that the investigating commission does not have jurisdiction in court. I would not now discuss what makes sense in legal texts or what makes sense, but we would need too much time, and I will bring you the relevant professional articles, which you will probably believe more than I do. And also in the Law on Parliamentary Investigation, and also in the Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Investigation, it is said that the provisions of the Criminal Procedure Act are applicable mutatis mutandis, but of course in matters of inquiry and proof, but not on average in order to be able to speak of the same powers as the Court has. And also about the words of actual involvement, operating on the role of independence and independence of individual branches of government, I do not think words should be lost. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u57	Thank you. Mr. Potts.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u58	Thank you very much. To say something positive first. I have no concerns about a constitutionally properly conducted parliamentary investigation, none. And I believe that in this direction I can, in my introduction on behalf of the Group of Members, help to: either improve legislation, if necessary, or to ensure that legislation in terms of supervision and the like is implemented consistently and more consistently and more effectively, so that we can also help resolve some of the problems that the Prosecutor's Office is facing this time, or the entire judiciary. And that we can also help the reputation of this institution! And that's what I want. And if we want others, and we have no other goals, then we can do much to help. If it comes to finding out these facts that anyone, an individual - I said, or Miran Potč, or Zdenka Cerar or Darja Lavtijar Bebler - has influenced that some prosecutor persecuted someone and did not persecute others, then please let this be said and let this be investigated and the worst moral and political sanctions imposed on him. That's all we need to find out on the case. However, if this national assembly, whoever it is, does not matter whether it is now a lawyer or not, what Mr Sok has previously said is that he thinks only we lawyers know how to read laws. But unfortunately, we can read them a little better, because we've had to read more in our lives, and we've had a college for four years or a little more than any other profession has. But I want to say this, regardless of who he thinks the committee, the committee of the National Assembly can assess whether, in some specific case, the prosecutor did the right thing because he sued or did not press charges because he was right because he sued for this crime, but he should do it for someone else and something like that, then it's the wrong world. Then it's an invasion of independence, whether it's entanglement or not, but it's a constitutional arrangement. I would like to ask what the emphasis is: we are for independence, but it is not inviolability. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not know this concept in terms of independence or the division of power. Of course, what is inviolability? Of course, the National Legislative Assembly regulates these issues. There are certain supervisory mechanisms, institutions. What, though, is inviolability? Well, listen, even in the context of concrete decisions, there is no complete inviolability in the sense that we should not say anything about this. He can judge the profession. A week ago, I read with great interest a really good article by my professor, Dr. Ljub Bavcon, who evaluated the Supreme Court's judgment regarding Mr. Rupar. But that's his assessment. And I will be happy to read the expert evaluation of someone else who will evaluate the work of this other, including the Constitutional Court. But if he's doing this to a politician in a way that says that if the judgment isn't as content as I expect it to be, then it's a political judgment. Ladies and gentlemen, then this is meddling politics in justice. If a politician says so, I must not be persecuted because I am a minister, but who here thinks that my integrity is being questioned, then this is meddling politics in an independent judiciary. And that's all I'm reminding you of, and I wouldn't want our investigative commission to eventually come into this position. As far as decisions are concerned. What is the jurisdiction of the national assembly, especially if we decide by law, of course we can make decisions. And in case anyone thinks that by law we can also change the position of mutual jurisdiction and the role that individuals, such as leaders, higher, state attorneys, have in the state prosecutor's organization. We can do this, and this can also mean a transfer of powers - we can, but first we must adopt this law, but we cannot, on specific occasions, judge and decide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u59	Thank you. I invite Mr Jerovsk to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u60	Thank you very much. In the previous debates on this side, in fact, some signs have already been indicated as to how the work of this Commission will be hampered. I think that it has already been decided that this commission should also not succeed by chance. In fact, a colleague of Shirca said that the Commission would work six months to define its work and subject. Of course, if you interfere, it will happen! I remember my colleague Beblereva, who, in the case of Vič-Holmec, together with her colleague for half a year, stopped each meeting on a procedural basis because she wanted to prevent what the commission eventually found: the responsibility of political officials to have Slovenian veterans take Slovenian police to The Hague. And these were her client's officers. Then they sent one into this Mirage: he is still, I think, there. There's no way he went there after that. These are very interesting connections. This is an extremely tendency to manipulate the results of previous investigative commissions. Mr. Moze said that the work of the investigative commissions was a kilowatt. If he spoke about his commission where I was a member, I agree - about the commission on arms. She really didn't finish her job, the only commission that did just an interim report, I think, in an inappropriate way. In the previous term, however, they did not intend to set up a new investigative commission in order to finally complete their work. In public, however, they manipulate how vague and incomplete everything is. Mrs Bebler said we would be making trouble if it went against the Constitution and against the law. You've been making trouble, personally, because the investigation committee has gone to find out that there's been a violation of the laws and constitution. And I'm afraid that's how you're gonna do it this time. This time too! Your statements already show that this political decision has already been adopted. There's no way he can prove himself. The attack on Barbara Brezigar also points to this - instead of saying that it was in principle out of a special group of prosecutors, when Mrs Cerarjeva prevented her from filing a complaint against a known criminal who was eloquently violating the human rights of a journalist in the Vič-Holmec case when he wrote about it. That was a hindrance. And then he got involved, and he was jamming Prosecutor Fisher for eight months and so on. Then he misinterprets that I attacked the media. It's not true! I just said that actually part of the media has taken what you've been spreading all along, that the work of the investigative commissions is a kilowatt, as Moge said, that it's not worth it, that it's worthless. But you don't want to admit that at least three final reports, says Vic-Holmec, Elan, have prevented admission within six months, procedurally. Decisions were adopted. Conscious! We remember. So you can say today that they didn't finish the job, which is not true. You just didn't want to take the LDS reports, and then you did. And do not manipulate the Slovenian public so much that it will already have a negative attitude towards this investigative commission, which, of course, I say, will have a very difficult job because the subject of work is too wide. And, of course, it is also necessary to count on the Czech solidarity of prosecutors because it is human. At the same time, some of the prosecutors will try to prevent the parastats in your hands from coming across anything specific. However, that the prosecutions worked selectively during this period, [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] very selectively for individual cases, but I think it is perfectly clear to the Slovenian public, some of them were quickly convicted, I think not through the prosecution, the prosecutions made an effort through the courts, while others were stuck in closets and did not move forward. Penalty and selectivity are more than obvious and politically motivated. Now, Mr Moge said that this commission of inquiry is designed to politically discipline law enforcement agencies, Mrs Beblereva, thinks it is politically motivated. Even if it is a politically motivated commission, it is legitimate and justified.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u61	Mr. Jerovšek, time is up.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u62	This commission is political, it is not a court, it is a political commission and it can be politically motivated and do not deceive the public that it is a grave sin.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u63	Mr. Jerovšek, time, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u64	This is a classic institution of parliamentaryism in Europe and it is everywhere.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u65	Mr. Jerovšek! Please, it's time!
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u66	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u67	Mr. Moge and Mrs. Bebler have applied for the replica. At this point, I would just like to point out that a replica is possible in accordance with Article 70 where the statement of an individual Member or Member has been misinterpreted or misunderstood and is not sufficient to merely mention the name if that was the case in the past. Mr. Mogue.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u68	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues. What my esteemed colleague, Mr Jerovšek, has said are political criminal negligence. For the first time, he says that we did not hope to establish investigative arms commissions in the 2000 - 2004 term. Anyone other than the National Assembly was the commission led by him, this is for the supervision of security and intelligence services, orders. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Please, you can stop once, because you can't work here anymore!
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u69	Please, for peace's sake.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u70	Yes, it is! "Premier" is that you can't do it if every word comes in and yells at me.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u71	Mr Jerovšek, please, Mr Moge has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u72	Please extend my time later. So we're not working. That's not true. His commission was tasked with identifying this matter - and what did Mr Jerovšek do to work on this committee 40% of the higher income? He didn't even want to finish his work by calling the board, that was a fact. The second thing he had was that he said that we had prevented the reception, and my commission or commission, which was called the Disarmament Commission, gave an interim report and also gave a report from which it stated, but only worked for a year and a half, why it could not complete its work. At that time, the National Assembly ruled, Mr Jerovšek, your party, Mr Podobnik was President, Dr Bajuk was Chief of Government, on the agenda was, but this coalition failed then - what you read and was a mistake - to address not even Jerovšek's report, which was on the agenda, nor Pukšič's report, which was on the agenda, nor my report, which was on the agenda. If anyone doesn't believe, I can bring you the agenda of this extraordinary session. So, what you're saying, Mr Jerovšek, does not apply. And if I said another thing. What you're using for the political purposes of this commission, I've been quiet about it, and I haven't talked about it, what only we know, and nobody else, because it wasn't involved, as far as the work of obstructing investigative commissions, when you look in the mirror before my fellow Beblers see it.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u73	Thank you. There is no replica to the replica, unless the President considers that this is necessary and in this case it is not necessary, because this dialogue can take place indefinitely, so I will give the replica to Mrs Bebler and then I will proceed with the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I'm going to be very brief because I think it doesn't really make sense to react to some of the accusations and instigation of the work of that Vice-Holmec committee. But I am obliged to explain why I mentioned Mr. Brezigarje. I have therefore mentioned Mrs Brezigarje because, in this justification, this request of the State Council for the initiation of a parliamentary investigation is also clear to the prosecution that it did not exercise adequate internal control. I have pointed out that the member of the team for the review of the work of prosecutors is a member of this internal control commission, including Mrs Brezigareva, in whom I am sure the coalition has confidence - in her expertise. That's all I wanted to point out and nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u75	Thank you. To the word of Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u76	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I just want to replicate one of the previous performances of Mrs Darje Lavtišar Bebler, because you are surprised that we support the establishment of this commission. I made it clear earlier that the requirement meets the conditions for the establishment of a commission, and by no means does the parliamentary group agree to first determine whether any of our species, as a former official, can possibly be called upon to defend this commission of inquiry and then, of course, decide whether we support the establishment of a commission or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u77	Thank you. My word, Mag. Squeezing.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u78	Mr. Chairman, thank you very much for your words. Members and Members of Parliament. When I listened to this debate, at first I thought that I would not answer, but, of course, when I heard those last words, I decided at the time that it was available that I would speak. I will begin with Mr Mencinger, Rector of the University, who, at the time of the consideration of the Law on Public Servants in the State Council, said that he would vote against the State Council adopting a proposal for amendments to the Law on Public Servants, so I quote: "because he does not want us to get 200 broken spines in Slovenia." In fact, as has already been said, the Public Servants Act has been proposed by the new government to intimidate public servants. Those who, on the basis of the law proposed by Mr State Secretary, were also protected by a mandate, of course, on the basis of the facts that they are professionally justified. Now they must be politically compatible. And political compatibility is, of course, the word that we are obviously going to use more and more in this national assembly and in your political work. Someone mentioned today that, of course, this is a political commission. It's absolutely a political commission! However, this political commission should take into account the Constitution to take into account the good practice in place in the world. This will primarily be a political commission which will exert political pressure on the prosecution, as in the Civil Service Act. If I merely quote what is cited as evidence: a joint report on the work of state prosecutors for 2003 and then a magnetogram of the 24th meeting of the Commission on the political system - we know what the world is, and we know who the President of this Commission is. So it is a political commission that will exert political pressure on the work of the prosecutions. It is the work of this commission, which has no clear purpose, because it is likely that we will spend some 100 million dollars of taxpayer money in this national assembly to put pressure on the prosecution. And this is the final phase, if I paraphrase Mr. Mencinger, that you want to break another 100 backbones of Slovenian prosecutors. Of course, the problem is that nowhere in the world, and even in Slovenia, we don't have two teams; we don't have two teams of prosecutors, we don't have two teams of judges, we don't have two teams of public servants if you want. That is why, of course, the purpose of the separation of power is parliamentary democracy, and therefore the aim of the reform of public administration is to protect public servants in an corrective way. Of course you don't want to. You, of course, have legitimately received a government on 3 December, have legitimately begun to amend legislation, but in our opinion in this change of legislation, and in the purposes you have, you are going too far. You are going so far as, of course, you have reached the adoption of a law that will break the backs of public servants, and you are, of course, initiating a parliamentary investigation aimed at intimidating the prosecutions. And because of this, ladies Members and Members of Parliament and ruling coalitions, we consider this debate to be a sad one today. That this debate we are having today goes far beyond how we regulate relations between independent branches of government in a European way. And that is why, of course, we will oppose this act, and in the work of the commission of inquiry itself, of course, we will try to ensure that they will not be able to carry out what you want: to have a political commission that will, of course, exert political pressure. Now, in time or in the Middle Ages, there are similar commissions - we know which institutions - have carried out, but today it is obvious to do so, or I would say in the Slovenian space that was seduced by some blackness, not just blackness, the treatment of some known data, but of course you have come into a situation where you also want to exert pressure through used instruments on institutions that have been protected by the Constitution as independent. That's why I'm going to object. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u79	Thank you. Mr. Sok, procedurally?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u80	Mr President, I propose that you, as those who hold this meeting, protect this Parliament. It is clear, then, that the National Assembly cannot decide otherwise, as stated in the Constitution, because this is a requirement of the State Council. And Mr. Squeakle says we're going to introduce something and so on. This is a permanent lie, and I strongly protest it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u81	I can only answer by not seeing any violation of the rules of procedure on my part or on the part of anyone else, but of course your statement came to [[..]] [[Incomprehensible.]] Mr Jerovšek, even procedurally? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u82	Mr President, as a lawyer, I also call on you, for the first time, to fence yourself against the performance of Mr Cwickle and to harden him. In fact, between the lines, he launched that the commission of inquiry was something like it was in the Middle Ages, said otherwise, the commission of Inquisition. This is the most subversive instigation and insult of the National Assembly. His whole performance was [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u83	Mr Jerovšek, procedurally referring to the application of the Rules of Procedure, I do not see [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u84	I urge you to apply the Rules of Procedure, correct and apologize to the National Assembly. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u85	I'm using the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u86	That's what I'm calling you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u87	Several graphic comparisons and statements were made today.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u88	If you'll allow me to fully explain my procedural proposal. And such incitement, I repeat, to the National Assembly to establish an Inquisition commission by making fun of the fact that this commission is political! In any case, the Commission of Inquiry may and is a political commission. Mr Potts was so correct that he nodded to me before that it was true that he had legal experience, of course. [[A laugh from the bench.]] That's true, isn't it?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u89	Mr Jerovšek, can you please quote an article that has been misapplied? If you don't, I'll take your word for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u90	Look, you are obliged to protect the integrity and identity of this National Assembly as chairman. I invite you to invite my colleague, Mr. Squeaky, to apologize for the instigation, this rude political abuse and the accusations of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u91	If that were the case, today all or most Members would be asked to apologize to each other.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u92	No, not to each other, protect the institution. I call on you, as an eminent lawyer, to maintain your legal integrity, to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u93	Thank you very much. As the last speaker, Mr Kovacic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u94	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! The debate has said quite a few things that need to be answered. Dear colleague Lavtizar Bebler and a respected colleague, Mr Potrč, have tried to frame some of the debaters by saying that the powers of the commission of inquiry are the same as those of the court or of the prosecution. Nobody said anything like that. It is clear that the Court considers that the Commission of Inquiry cannot issue judgments. It is clear that the prosecution is involved in the main proceedings before the court. It is clear that the Commission of Inquiry cannot do this. However, the Constitution makes it very clear that in matters of inquiry and investigation, the Commission of Inquiry has the same responsibilities as it does. So he can also invite investigators, he can invite witnesses, and he can also force them to appear before the commission of inquiry. In this sense, these powers make sense, and that was what the talk was about! Thus, of course, this type of instigation is very improper. It is clear, however, that the Commission cannot go into a specific decision of the prosecution or of the judges if you wish. However, it can be brought to the conclusion that during a period of time, matters have taken place across any reasonable limit that is outdated. I think it's a good thing he's getting into these things. Or that it goes down to why some prosecutor had so many and so many pending cases in his closet. And also whether this may have been due to some political pressure, as previously said, that this investigative commission now wants to exert political pressure. No, he cannot do that, but he can determine whether in some cases this has occurred. And that's the commission's job. And this is by no means an inquisitorial commission, such as Mr Gantar, or not a microphone, but somehow plainly from the bench said it was an inquisition. This is a committee whose powers are laid down in the Constitution and whose establishment was required by the State Council. This was not required by the coalition majority in this House, but by the state council. There is no obstacle, however, to the fact that this commission of inquiry does its work, as set out in the Constitution. Last but not least, the Commission can also go into why, in some segment of the prosecution, I don't know, in the opinion of a large number of people, they haven't done their jobs. For example, I am specifically thinking about postwar killings. Prosecutors either speak or the prosecution says that there are no complaints, so it is not possible to initiate proceedings in these cases. But we all know that the prosecution not only works on the basis of the charges filed, but it is their responsibility to find out about something that has happened and which is a suspicion of a criminal offence to initiate the procedure. And the postwar killings that I'm specifically talking about were written in literature, with concrete names, with concrete events, with specific periods, and no one has gone down in this matter. And I'd be in debt, probably. No matter what the specific decision of the prosecutor will then be, the case will be brought before him. Of course, he'll be independent in this. And in that sense, I see the tasks of this commission. And I believe that, in the context of identifying the political responsibilities of the holders of public powers and functions, she will also find out a number of things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u95	Thank you. Replica is required by Mr. Potch. Then we'll close the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Mr Kovačič, if you understand that I am setting anything up for you, then I must say that you misunderstood me because all I did was quote literal statements. And also the literal statement by Mr Sok, which was verified on the magnetogram, was that such a commission had jurisdiction over the court. Thank God. [[The ad from the bench.]] Thank God. We later read Article 93 of the Constitution collectively and found that such a commission did not have jurisdiction in the courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u97	Thank you, everyone. I'm closing the debate. And the purpose of the parliamentary inquiry will be carried out today in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. That'll be in half an hour. I suggest we round up and meet again here at the vote at 13.45. Excuse me, 13:15. So at 1:15, we resume our session. And now I'm adjourning the meeting. Good run to those who go to lunch. And goodbye at 1:15.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u98	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! We're continuing our session. We continue with the end of the 7th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation 2 to 5 of the first paragraph of Article 68 and Article 84 of the Law on corporate income tax. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Before we go to the vote alone, I ask Members and Members to check the functioning of the voting apparatus, either on the right or on the right hand side of the card inserted, the yellow light. Did you check it out? Obviously, then we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision of the parent working body, which reads: "Proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 68(1) to (5) and Article 84 of the Law on corporate income tax, Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia No. 40/04 and 139/04 are not accepted." Anybody want to explain their voice? Before we go to the vote, let me inform you of the agreement announced yesterday by Vice-President Klavora that we will agree on the methodology for giving the floor to the explanations of vote this morning. The Presidency of the National Assembly has decided that we will not call for explanations of vote, but we will allow the Members to be heard freely, as was the case in the previous term. If no one wants to explain to the vote, we're going to the vote. We're voting! The vote is under way. There are 56 Members and Members present. It's 50 votes against no one. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the procedure for examining this authentic interpretation has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 8th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the act on the determination of the parliamentary inquiry to identify and evaluate the actual situation that may be the basis for deciding on the political responsibility of public officials in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Ministry of Justice and the Supreme State Prosecutor of the Republic of Slovenia in respect of the exercise of control under the State Prosecutor's Act, Official Gazette of the Republic of Slovenia No. 110/02 (officially purified text), to amend legislation and other decisions in accordance with the constitutional powers of the National Assembly. Pursuant to the second paragraph of Article 4 of the Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Investigation, the Parliamentary Inquiry Chamber shall not vote. Therefore, I note that the National Assembly ordered a parliamentary inquiry to identify and assess the actual situation which may be the basis for deciding on the political responsibility of public officials in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Ministry of Justice and the Supreme Public Prosecutor’s Office of the Republic of Slovenia in respect of the exercise of control under the State Prosecutor’s Office Act, Official Gazette of the Republic of Slovenia, No. 110/02, officially consolidated text for amending legislation and for other decisions in accordance with the constitutional powers of the National Assembly. The purpose of the investigation is to determine the scope and content of the control actually carried out under law and the possible personal responsibility of the holders of public functions for a lack of, ineffective or substantively inadequate control during the period of the mandate of the national assembly between 2000 and 2004. Identify the potential personal responsibility of the holders of public functions for the conduct of law enforcement or prosecution policies in individual cases and their politically harmful and legally inadmissible conduct in this regard. And to identify the causes and circumstances that may lead to the illegal and irresponsible work of state prosecutors and to amend the legislation so that it will no longer allow such behaviours. The Parliamentary Commission is hereby designated. In this regard, I ask the Council of State to draw up a proposal for a decision on the composition and appointment of the Commission of Inquiry in accordance with the content of a specific parliamentary inquiry and to forward it to the national assembly at the latest at its forthcoming meeting. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving to agenda 9 here you are, Mr. Jelinčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u99	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We have received a letter from the Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr Klavore, acknowledging that there was a mistake on his part and he also apologized. I therefore propose that the National Assembly vote on today's popular debate on the sale of state property, as the Slovenian National Party intended or proposed yesterday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u100	Thank you, Mr. Jelinčich. Once again, as I understand it, we cannot vote. That's why we're moving to 9. PERIOD OF THE DAY - TO THE DENMARK PROTOCOL H TO THE CONVENTION ON THE PREVENTION OF THE MONITORING OF THE DENMARK AND THE PROTOCOL H TO THE CONVENTION ON THE PREVENTION OF THE FAILURE OF THE DENAR AND THE Optional PROTOCOL TO THE CONVENTION ON THE PREVENTION OF THE PREVENTION OF THE MONITORING OF DENARY CONTRIBUTIONS REFERRED TO IN GENERAL 20. APRIL 1929. As no amendment was adopted by the parent working body in the context of the second reading, there is no debate on articles and amendments. That is why we are moving on to the third reading, which is the decision on the proposal for an act. Anybody want to explain their voice? If we don't, we're going to the vote. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 68 Members and Members present, 66 votes against none. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the act has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 10. DOCTOR OF THE DAY'S LINE - A DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE RATIFICATION OF THE AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA AND THE SWITZERLAND CONTRACTING COUNCIL ON REFERENCE OF PERSONS RESIDENTING UNREADED AND PROTOCOLS ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONGREGATION BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA AND THE SWITZERLAND WORLD ON REFERENCE OF PERSONS PREVENTIONED. As no amendment was adopted by the parent working body in the context of the second reading, there is no debate on articles and amendments. That is why we are moving on to the third reading, which is the decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 66 Members and Members present, 64 votes against none. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 11. At the end of the day, this is a proposal for a law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and the Swiss Confederation on cooperation in the fight against crime and the Protocol between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Federal Council of the Swiss Confederation on the supply of liaison officers. Since no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body under the second reading, there is no debate on articles and amendments, so we are moving on to the third reading, that is to decide on the proposal for a law. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 68 Members and Members present, 66 votes in favour. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 12. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - IT IS ON THE CERTIFICATE OF THE OFFICIAL TEXTS RELEVANT TO THE LEGISLATION. Officially revised texts were prepared by the Legislative and Legal Service of the Assembly and confirmed by the assembly without discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "The official text of the law banning the production and transport of asbestos products and the provision of funds for the restructuring of asbestos production is confirmed." We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 68 Members and Members present, 68 votes against none. [[The vote was 68.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "The officially consolidated text of the Act on Compulsory Insurance in Transport is confirmed." We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 67 Members and Members present, 61 votes against 1. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "The officially consolidated text of the Law on Public Servants is confirmed." We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 64 Members and Members present, 61 votes against none. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the text of that Act has been officially clarified by the assembly. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 13. At the end of the day, it's on casually loving matters. Under this item, the assembly will consider the proposal of the President of the Republic of Slovenia to elect an ad hoc judge for the protection of personal data in the common supervisory body. Proposals by the Judicial Council, namely 7 proposals for election in judicial capacity, and a proposal for a decision on the discharge of a member and appointment of a member of the Supervisory Board of RTV Slovenia. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on individual proposals. First, the proposal by the President of the Republic of Slovenia to elect an ad hoc judge for the protection of personal data in the common supervisory body. The President of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Janez Drnovšek, proposed to the National Assembly, under Article 6 of the Law proposing candidates from the Republic of Slovenia for judges of international courts, that Prof. Dr. Rajko Pirnat be elected as ad hoc judge for the protection of personal data in the joint supervisory body. The proposal considered the Commission's mandate-holder as the working body of the mother. The Commission's rapporteur wants a word? No, no, no. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. A representative of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Franz Sušnik, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u101	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament. On behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party, I would like to say that the election of Dr Rajko Pirnat, who is scheduled for study at the Faculty of Law of the University of Ljubljana, born on 24 March 1951, will be held. Depl. the lawyer, Dr. legal sciences, for the function of ad hoc judge for the protection of personal data in the common supervisory body has been supported. We will vote in favour of his election. However, we are of the opinion that this needs to be said separately and stressed, irrespective of the fact that this is a secret vote. We believe that the candidate is, in all cases, suitable for the performance of this difficult and responsible function, and therefore we also express our support for the candidacy submitted to the National Assembly by the President of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u102	Thank you, Mr. Sušnik. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to the vote. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 7 of the Law on the proposed candidate from the Republic of Slovenia for judges of international courts on the election, the State Assembly shall decide by secret ballot. In accordance with the first paragraph of Rule 92 of the Rules of Procedure, a secret vote shall be held by the committee composed of the Presidents and four Members elected by the National Assembly. I have already received proposals from the parliamentary groups for the members of the committee leading the vote. These are Franc Jazbec, Slovenian Democratic Party, Rudolf Moge, Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, Aurelio Juri, United List of Social Democrats, and Martin Mikolič, Nova Slovenija. I, too, am a member of this commission as chairman. Does anyone object to this proposal? If not, we are moving on to a decision on the composition of the commission. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 63 Members and Members present, 62 votes against none. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the commission in the proposed composition has been elected. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a vote will be delivered to the Members by each Member to the President's table and by their names and surnames. It shall be voted on by surrounding the word "yes" or "against". In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 91 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the unfulfilled ballot shall be invalid. There is also an invalid voice from which the Member's will is not clear. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 7 of the Law proposing candidates from the Republic of Slovenia for judges of international courts, the proposed candidate will be elected if voted for by a majority of all Members, that is 46 or more. We will vote in the hall, in the voting booths. The Members and Members will place the completed vote in the ballot box, which will be at the table next to the voting booths. We are moving on to a secret ballot. I ask Members of Parliament to assist me in the vote to report immediately to room 217, where we will take over the electoral material. The vote will begin at 13.45 p.m. and will last until 2.00 p.m. Members who will assist me in voting will be asked to meet in room 217 after the vote. We'll continue the meeting at 2:15. I'm breaking this agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u103	Dear Members and honourable Members! We're continuing our session. We continue with the suspension of the 13a item on the agenda - the election of the candidate for an ad hoc judge for the protection of personal data in the common supervisory body. Minutes on the determination of the outcome of the vote for the ad hoc judge for the protection of personal data in the common supervisory body established on the basis of a Council Decision of 28 February 2002 establishing Eurojust in order to strengthen the fight against serious crimes. The vote was held at the premises of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on 23 March 2005. 67 ballots were distributed. 67 ballots were delivered, 3 votes were invalid, 64 votes were valid. 64 members voted in favour, no one voted against. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[Nothing.]] On the basis of the outcome of the vote, by a majority of the votes of all Members, he was elected ad hoc judge for the protection of personal data in the joint supervisory body of Dr Rajko Pirnat. We are moving on to a proposal for a decision on election to a judicial function. The Council of Justice submitted to the National Assembly seven proposals for election to a judicial function at the courts of five District Courts and a District Judge at the District Court in Maribor, Škofja Loka, Koper, Kranju and Ljubljana, and higher judges at the higher court in Maribor. The proposals were addressed by the Commission's mandate-holder as the working body and submitted proposals for conclusions to the assembly. There are no candidates for discussion, so we are moving on to a decision on individual proposals for conclusions. First of all, I am putting to the vote a motion for a decision on the election to the judicial function of Mrs Ksenia Damjan at the district court in the District Court of Maribor. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present, 54 votes against none. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Tanja Frank Eler to the District Court of Justice in the District Court in Škofja Loka. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present, 56 votes against none. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Samantha Nusdorfer to the District Court in the District Court of Cyprus. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 55 Members and Members present, 53 votes against none. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. I shall put to the vote a proposal for a decision on the election to the judicial function of the Magi. Peter Rudolph to the District Court of Justice in the District Court in Kranj. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 58 Members and Members present, 58 votes against none. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Metka Jug to the judicial seat of the higher court in the Supreme Court of Maribor. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 58 Members and Members present, 58 votes against none. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Jadranka Juhant to the District Court in the District Court of Ljubljana. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 58 Members and Members present, 58 votes against none. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Suzanne Husar Dobravec to the District Court in the District Court of Ljubljana. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 58 Members and Members present, 57 votes against none. [[The vote was 57.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. We move on a proposal for a decision on the discharge of a member and the appointment of a member of the Supervisory Board of RTV Slovenia. The proposal for a decree was submitted by a mandate-holder commission for consideration by the assembly. The Commission's rapporteur wants a word? [[No, no, ……]] Others reported or followed by a presentation of the views of the members of the groups. [[...]] The text is by the representative of the United List of Social Democrats, Mr Kumer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u104	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. In the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, we appreciate and respect Dr Jerovsk as a professor and expert in the field of industrial sociology, we believe that he is not so successful in the field of economics and business, which he finally proved at the time of the Director of the Institute of RTV Slovenia. In the Group of Members of the United Nations Social Democrats, we expected the Government, the proposer, to take advantage of the opportunity and to propose to the Supervisory Committee a candidate that is credible and competent in the economic and financial field. For example, a junior candidate from a number of advisory groups, such as those who exchange views and views around the government's expert council. This would give the government an opportunity for a younger expert to exercise and exercise his knowledge and abilities in practice and in a concrete situation, and not just to advise. New ideas for finding solutions for more efficient and better management of RTV are, of course, still needed. We will therefore abstain from this vote in the ZLSD Group of Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u105	Thank you, Mr. Kumer. There are no other applicants for the debate, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the discharge of Dr. Ale Brglez and on the appointment of Prof. Dr. Janez Jerovška as a member of the supervisory committee of RTV Slovenia. Mrs. Shirca, please explain your voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u106	Thank you very much, President. I personally have no doubt that Mr Janez Jerovšek will be able to perform his supervisory function in the public institution of RTV Slovenia. After all, the house is well known as the former Director-General, and I have no doubt about its expertise. The bibliography itself states that he wrote and published a number of books and also articles and regularly publishes them as a columnist of the newspaper Democracy and regularly cooperates with the New magazine and also with the magazine Ali. What worries me, and which leads me to abstain in this vote, is the fact that in this writing, his call, published in the recent democracy, which says that, when the media is critical and screaming lately, can happen that, in exchange, certain persons will be replaced, and that some key people need to be replaced, I quote: "...from those in the supervisory councils to those who seem less important than they are. correspondent Matthew Schurtz, who sends us selected anti-American comments." Such an invitation to such editorial work is not possible from the supervisory board of the public office, but it is dangerous if it is taking place on other channels and on other routes. As I say, I cannot support and will abstain in this vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u107	Thank you, Mrs. Shirci. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. The vote is under way. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, 43 votes against none. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. We're moving to 14. Agenda item - Proposal for a Law on the Establishment of Certain Procedures for Violations and the Retirement of Certain Penalties. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to a representative of the government, Mr Marolt, for an additional explanation. Please, Secretary of State Robert Marolt, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u108	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and honourable Members! With a proposal for a law to put an end to certain proceedings on offences and to dismiss certain sentences of imprisonment, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposes a abolition of certain offences. The proposed regulation is intended to stop or not to introduce all those infringement procedures which have been committed up to and including 31.12.2004, except those which meet the specific criteria laid down in Article 1 of the proposal. These criteria define exceptions to the abolition and constitute offences which, in accordance with a prescribed or already initiated procedure, the proposed sanction or, in view of the consequences arising from the offence, may be classified as serious infringements. In the decision on the limits of the abolition, which should cover certain offences, we followed the criterion of the height or type of penalty or by-law penalty or penalty for an offence prescribed by the legislator in the substantive regulation, which indicates significant secured goods, which is affected by an infringement defined as an offence. In criminal law, the criterion of weight or rejection of an individual act is, of course, defined at the level of the penalty at stake. In view of these criteria, we do not overrule those acts which are so important that the legislator has imposed a foreign penalty on them. In doing so, we stress that in 2004 alone, more than 80,000 cases have been obsolete in the infringement proceedings, irrespective of whether they are worse or less serious or significant. The purpose of the government is to adopt less serious offences with the proposed law because these offences cost less or affect the country. However, serious offences or serious offences are abated by the government's proposal, but the judges for offences must end them as soon as possible so that the proceedings do not expire. The fact is that, given the prevailing situation, the judicial system of the existing number of pending cases cannot be resolved without, at the same time, significantly delaying the start of new cases under the new offence legislation. As a result, in a few years' time, the result would be the same actual situation as we are now in. In doing so, I would point out that it was only from last year to this year, according to 1.1.2005, when a new system of criminal decision was put in place, when jurisdiction from the judges for offences was transferred to the District Courts, which transferred 144 thousand cases. In comparison, in the last year, a total of 143 offenders were resolved by 89 000 cases at Grade 1. In fact, this means that the existing number of judges of only the old transferred cases could theoretically only be resolved within one year and seven months. In doing so, I stress that many cases have been brought forward since 2003 which will expire in 2005 and a large number of cases transferred in 2004 that will expire in 2006. Abolition, which is by definition the broadest form of amnesty or pardon, is intended to absolve prosecution, and in a broader sense also prosecution of offences. As a result of the abolition, the criminal procedure or procedure for an offence already instituted shall be terminated. However, if such a procedure has not yet been introduced, the abolition constitutes a legal obstacle to the initiation of this procedure. Now, with regard to the proposal you received in the material, every article is also explained individually, so that it does not repeat itself. With regard to the proposal by the amendment of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats to Article 1 of the bill, we explain that the Government does not support this proposal. The amendment of the parliamentary group is mainly internally contradictory and legally non-consistent. The fact is that the reasons set out in the amendment are not really justified. The proposal from the parliamentary group provides that this exemption from abolition would apply to a person who already has three legal decisions on the service of a misdemeanour during that period, i.e. the period in 2004. So it's supposed to be three completed procedures. However, the proposed law concerns the situation of the abolition, the first part of the amendment or the right part of the sentence in this amendment, according to the constitutional category of the internal contravention, because it refers to a person who has committed three identical or similar offences. So, as such, we understand a person who is already legally convicted of these three acts. However, if such a person is already legally convicted of these three acts, we do not really have anything to do with a vote, because the abolition does not apply to legal proceedings. In addition, the proposed amendment also interferes with the concept of the proposed law, since it means that the courts of infringement proceedings could not have stopped, not on the basis of the information provided in the proposal for the initiation of the procedure, but should have obtained this information from all 44 district courts for each of the persons covered by the proposed law, which would have rendered the abolition meaningless, since the procedures for issuing decisions under this law would have been delayed and the courts would have been more burdened than for example to avoid a abolition at all. In doing so, it should be pointed out that the Judges for Offences pending the entry into force of the new Act on Offences, the so-called ZP1, did not at all keep uniform records of offences in the Republic of Slovenia, nor did they keep a single record of suspects proposed in the infringement proceedings, but only for the purposes of each of the 55 criminal or criminal courts at the time, only for the jurisdiction of that authority. Also in cases of offences under the new law on infringements of the CAP1, committed after 1.1.2005, there is no uniform record of suspects suspected of offences, but they are only subject to a record of judicial judgments or decisions on offences by the Ministry of Justice. In the light of the foregoing, it is therefore not possible to establish whether a certain person in one court is also in the proceedings in any of the other 44 District Courts. Moreover, the suspicion of the service of the offence does not mean that the person for whom the procedure for the offence is proposed has also committed the offence. The fact is that, under Article 27 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, all persons, including those proposed in the infringement proceedings, are innocent until their guilt is determined by the competent authority's legal judgment. In addition, another third argument that the Government does not accept the proposal of the amendment of the United Nations Group is that this proposal may also relate to the fact that someone committed three misdemeanours last year, for example that he was not bound three times by the security belt and should therefore continue the proceedings by judges for offences or now by district judges. In the light of all these statistics on the work of the judges for offences, we can believe that most of the cases referred to the District Court would be obsolete, and therefore the proposed abolition is also economically justified so that judges would not pursue proceedings on cases which are just before the expiry or which will expire no later than 2006. The purpose of the abolition is to enable judges to begin solving old cases transferred, namely only those serious offences which are not covered by the abolition and which are also subject to higher penalties. Since higher penalties are also prescribed, this means that district judges will be able to solve the most difficult cases, in so far as decisions are made, they will be substantively determined that the individual has committed an offence, including for the budget's more positive financial consequences. In doing so, the Government also points out that the average duration of proceedings in 2004 was at the first stage of more than 12 months, which, by order of law, is already considered to be a backlog in criminal cases. In doing so, the government also emphasises that former judges for offences have become part of the ordinary court, thus becoming district judges who have to decide and judge according to the applicable legislation. The fact is that the Court of Justice provides that judges have to solve matters on a time-consuming basis. This means that district judges or former judges must now handle and deal with the oldest cases, i.e. cases in 2003, which will expire in the current year, irrespective of the weight of the penalties imposed or threatened. Therefore, from this point of view, the Government's proposal is more than justifiable because it allows judges to avoid dealing with small, wealthy matters, and ultimately all matters would be obsolete. So there would be a lot of effort, resulting in a lot of budget money, this budget money being the salaries of judges, judicial staff, salaries of the courts, and the result in the state budget would not be positive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u109	Thank you, Mr. Marlot. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as the parent working body. I ask the chairman of the committee, Mr Mojco Kucler Dolinar, to present the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Good-bye. At its 4th urgent meeting on 18 March, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice considered a proposal for a law. The College of the President of the National Assembly decided at its 17th session on 17.3. that the proposal for a law should be considered on an urgent basis. The representative of the proposer, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, provided an additional explanation to the article of the bill, in which he pointed out in particular that the Government is proposing a abolition of certain offences committed up to and including 31 December 2004, other than those which comply with the specific criteria laid down in Article 1 of the proposal. It is also proposed that the execution of the sentence of imprisonment of the amended penalty of fines may not be compulsively recovered, since, under the applicable legislation, unrecoverable fines cannot be converted into imprisonment. The Committee further proposed the adoption of an amendment to Article 1 proposing an extension of the derogations from the abolition for infringements of the rules on acquisitions, in particular with regard to the protection of minority shareholders, for serious infringements of the takeover law and that in relation to acquisitions, violators may obtain significant property benefits to the detriment of minority shareholders. There could also be doubts on the market about the effectiveness of the control or prosecution of such practices. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service gave a full written opinion to this service and in the debate on the proposal for a Member's law and the members of the Committee's necessity to adopt the bill did not in principle object to it, which also stemmed from the vote on both amendments and on all articles of the bill, since in both cases there was no vote against it. However, in their opinion, some members of the opposition, like the legal and legislative service, raised the issue of equality and constitutionality in relation to all perpetrators of similar offences in the same period of time and wondered whether the solution provided by the proposal of the law was the only way to resolve the criminal problem resulting from the adoption of a new law on offences in 2003. They also highlighted the lack of data on the extent to which cases will be reduced in the courts following the adoption of the draft law, and that there are no clear estimates that criminal authorities and courts will be decided within a reasonable time frame from now on. However, the members of the position felt that the proposal was a good one and that it represented the contribution of the legislative branch of power within its capacity to reduce judicial backlogs, which cannot be said to place citizens in an unequal position. They also said that any abolition or pardon to a certain extent could be criminal, but, of course, it could also be unfair to go out of business, so that, when weighing all the consequences of the bill, they are more favourable, which is why the bill also wished for the majority support. They also agreed with the proposed amendment. The Committee therefore adopted, on a proposal from the Ministry of Justice, an amendment to Article 1 and Article 2a and an integral part of the report that you have received, an additional proposal for a law prepared by the Committee by including the adopted amendment in the proposal for a second reading.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u111	Thank you to the chairman of the committee, Mrs. Mozzie Kucler Dolinar. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Miran Potrč has the floor to speak on behalf of the United List of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The government is proposing that we forgive the persecution or punishment of most of the offences committed by 31.12.2004. The exemption only exempts certain offences for which there is a particular risk of high penalties. The government considers that such a decision is necessary in order to ensure that the new law on offences is implemented in a consistent manner if all cca were to be implemented. As many as 144,000 crimes have now gone to court, this would prevent their regular and casual work. The government's findings and assessments are likely correct, but this does not change the fact that so far there has been too little in order to avoid such a situation. The United List of Social Democrats, at the time of the adoption of the Act on Offences in 2002 and 2003, pointed out this most seriously, but Mr Bizjak and Erjavec, who headed the Ministry of Justice at the time, argued that the transfer of decisions on offences to regular courts would not lead to an irregular situation. As we see today, the predictions of the appointed gentlemen have not come true. Therefore, if we do not adopt the proposed law, we will burden the work of the District Courts to the extent that they can again be justified by the excuses that the courts are unable to solve neither crimes nor crimes on a regular basis. The opposition cannot and does not want to take responsibility for such a situation. We cannot therefore oppose the proposed law in principle, but we can point out that it is again a lack of well-thought reform, a solution that, given the modest explanation and even more modest answers that the applicants have given to the questions raised, does not give full assurance that the law will really work as well as the proponents do. Members of the United List of Social Democrats have not received from the Government any or at least unsatisfactory answers to the following questions: is there any precise information on the number of cases that the abolition will reduce; is there an assessment ready and can be made to ensure that they will be taken within a reasonable period of time following the entry into force of this law in the criminal authorities and in the courts? Are the criminal authorities fully qualified to conduct administrative proceedings and to issue decisions on offences and are computer records in place to enable the work of the courts? Are the assessments prepared on what will be the relationship between the offences committed that will be dealt with before the criminal authorities, and how many will have to be dealt with by the courts in order to assess the ability of both parties to take decisions within a reasonable time frame? Finally, it is far from at least important whether, to a sufficient extent, the warnings of the legislative and legal service regarding possible dispute have been assessed on the basis of respect for the principle of equality before the law, since those perpetrators who have already rectified the sentence will also be punished in the period until 31.12.2004 in an unequal situation with those who have been committed for the same act at the same time, due to the inaction of the criminal authorities, have not yet been punished or have not yet been settled. The proposer should have a clear answer to this question that, in the case of a multitude of those affected by the law who show their legal interest in his constitutional judgment, they might not have been able to carry out the law for a long time. Regardless of those questions, which have not been answered so far, I expect answers to those questions today. Our vote on the law will also depend on the clarity and certainty of the answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u113	Thank you, Mr. Run. Ms Mojca Kucler Dolinar will speak on behalf of New Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Have a nice and good day on behalf of the New Slovenia Group! In this context, we are continuing with the topic that we have already opened at point 8 which is the issue of the effective functioning of the justice system. The aim of the proposal for a law on the cessation of certain proceedings on offences and the dismissal of certain sentences of imprisonment is primarily to reduce the number of cases which, on the basis of the provisions of the applicable law on offences, have been transferred to the courts with general jurisdiction, which, in any event, are already faced with judicial backlogs. In the case of New Slovenia, we believe that it is an institution that can only be used exceptionally, depending on its nature - that is, the suspension or cessation of certain infringement proceedings or their failure - should be interpreted restrictively, restrictively. Therefore, in this mercy act of the State, as we might call it, we must stop at the lower limit to which the purpose of the law can still be achieved. This is for the courts to start deciding on cases of offences under the new law more effectively and, above all, not to overstep some very important cases. Because this could have happened if the courts had dealt with criminal cases that had passed into their jurisdiction with the new year, and most of them would have aged, it was estimated that even 80% of the cases had been transferred. However, this would result in the conduct of procedures, which, as we have heard, have already been predetermined to a certain extent to statute of limitations, and there would also be no additional unnecessary costs to the State for the collection of fines from the perpetrators of the offences. In Novi Slovenije, we are convinced that today's situation in this area allows individuals to prevent normal conduct of procedures by delaying procedures and not participating in hearings and, due to the extent of the works, this leads to a number of delays. Such a method of non-sanctioning certainly does not work educationally or preventively in relation to those affected by such offences, but should be an individual, an economic operator or a country. At the same time, of course, in New Slovenia we are concerned that some of these practices are sometimes further affected by certain offences which are disproportionate to the offences themselves - here we mention several times the law on road safety or these relations are somehow not real. Since the cessation of proceedings against the perpetrator of certain offences is applicable to all perpetrators of similar offences covered by the law, we consider that it is not possible to talk about inequality in particular in the light of the fact that the inequality so far has been mainly due to the fact that the alleged offender has fallen within the jurisdiction of a court where there is a decrease, the decision has been served after two months and the other is obsolete. From a criminal point of view, however, it is certainly necessary to set a limit according to the level of social danger committed by the offence, and in Novi Slovenija we believe that this limit laid down in the draft law is justified. As exceptions to the abolition, they must be those offences which, according to their nature, can be considered worse, so that we will support the proposal of the amendment of the committee in Novi Slovenija. However, we cannot support the amendment of the United List of Social Democrats, because we believe that it somehow does not stand up to the law, that it speaks of the perpetrators of the offences, and that the verdict of the offence is covered only in the decision or in the legal proceedings that have been completed and that there is no recourse to such proceedings. In addition, we wonder whether this record can be effectively obtained in the light of incomplete information on the competent authorities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u115	Thank you, Mrs. Kucler Dolinar. Mr Jakob Preseknik will speak on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u116	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we support the cessation of procedures for minor offences committed until the end of last year. In the parliamentary group, we are also of the opinion that it makes sense for the abolition of certain criminal proceedings against the court to be resolved. By enacting the new law, most of the offences are dealt with before the criminal authorities by means of a rapid procedure and the courts only deal with worse offences. Of course, we hope that the courts will be able to deal with the pending cases in the future, and that there will be no judicial backlog, at least to that extent, and consequently the proposal for a new law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u117	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Boštjan Zagorac will speak on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u118	Thank you for your word. Your Honors are here! In the Slovenian National Party, we see as the only reason for such a proposal of law as we have on the table today, to reduce judicial backlogs. It's an attempt on the part of the government to solve the backlogs, just like that. In the Slovenian National Party, we hope that this is not the only attempt that has been mentioned in this government to solve this very pressing problem for Slovenia. We believe that there is still a permanent mandate, a real privilege that judges have, and no one else in this country is the main culprit for the backlogs in the Republic of Slovenia. Abolition, however, represents only an emergency exit, how this agony of judicial backlogs, so as not to increase, is reduced. We hope that in the future the government will solve the problems of judicial backlogs in a more consistent way and not in the easiest and fastest way, which the abolition certainly is. Abolition is also controversial in terms of equality before the law. Last but not least, some have already settled their sentences and others will never need to. Financial implications, as we can read in the government's explanation - should have financial implications for the budget. Is it not possible that the non-recovery of these penalties will have a financial impact on the budget of the Republic of Slovenia? Last but not least, in the Slovenian National Party, we rightly fear that the government will, in terms of how it has dealt with the resolution of judicial arrears, and in view of the level of penalties imposed by our judges on certain crimes and similar to those committed in some cases, solve this problem in the future with a further abolition which will cover something other than crimes and matters which are obsolete. Yesterday, from Strasbourg, we received warnings that we are among the EU Member States with the most judicial backlog. Slovenia, as a country, also has the most complaints before the European Court of Human Rights about the violation of the right to a trial within a reasonable time. In the Slovenian National Party, we have been alerting the judicial backlogs from the very beginning. We have also offered solutions, such as a constitutional initiative to take a permanent one, but for most of you, I will not say for all of you, they were totally unacceptable. As I said at the outset, abolition is a bad way to solve such a complex and important problem as judicial backlogs, and I really hope that this is not the only way that the government is offering to this national assembly in this mandate to get rid of the judicial backlogs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u119	Thank you, Mr. Zagorec. Mr Willi Rezman will speak on behalf of the Democratic Party of the Retired Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u120	Thank you very much. In the afternoon, I will also try to present briefly what we think in the DeSUS Group, namely, the following. We will support this proposal because and if they follow the indications that we can read and hear. So if, of course, there were consequences that would be difficult to correct or possibly have an even more negative effect than if we were to recover it to the end. If the cases are such and to such an extent that they have literally and in fact failed the courts; if it is the majority, we have also heard the number 80 to 100, which is already obsolete, and then it is not possible for them to expect the financial impact that someone has questioned, or whether the hole will be created as a result. If this means that we are actually going back to some level of zero, from which the Court's tasks can be monitored on an ongoing basis and the Presidents of the Courts may also be better able to monitor and supervise the work of the Judges, because they will no longer be able to invoke the fact that this is an inherited case from past years. So, if this is a possibility of a better and more consistent implementation of this compensation reform, then we feel that this needs to be supported. At the same time, we do not think that it is necessary to ask whether some of us who may have paid the penalty for driving too fast have been deprived. I don't think this is the wisest question and it's not the right one, because those of us who have ever driven quickly have paid for what we've done, we can probably drive the quiet news forward the second time, and I don't know if those who have hidden the offense feel better and don't admit it and try to avoid their obligations and duties in this way. By the way, let me say that it seems ridiculous, at least to me, that the statement or thought in the text that we have received from the SPS is that it is an act of mercy to the abolition, because I do not understand it, that I should be particularly and excessively merciful in this regard now, more I understand this by trying to be effective and put things in order once. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u121	Thank you, Mr. Rezman. Mr Dimitrij Kovacic will speak on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u122	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues, colleagues. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we support the proposed law on the cessation of certain procedures on offences and the dismissal of certain sentences of imprisonment. Why? Because we believe that in this case it is a measure of the state by which it will ensure the best possible work of the competent criminal authorities and the courts they have on the basis of the adopted and this year's law on offences. The fact is that the previous Act on Offences was largely ineffective. Among the main reasons for its inefficiency was certainly the insufficiency of judges for offences with a number of cases which were largely impossible to reach a legal decision within a short limitation period. The new Act on Offences introduces a substantial rationalisation of procedures, as my colleague Presečnik has already said, so that most of the offences are dealt with in a swift manner before the criminal authorities and the courts deal with only worse offences. In this way, the law provides for a significantly more effective resolution of criminal proceedings than has been the case so far. However, in order to be effective in the implementation of the law on offences, the Government proposes by means of the law in question certain less important infringement proceedings, so that these procedures, of which a substantial part of the old legislation would be obsolete, would not impose an additional burden on the current criminal authorities and courts on the achievement of the objectives set out in the preparation and adoption of the new offence law. This is therefore an urgent and good decision by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which will provide the criminal authorities and the courts with the conditions for effectiveness, as well as the quality of their treatment and decision-making of infringement proceedings. This is essentially a matter of priority assessment: whether it is more important to ensure in advance the best possible and effective work for the authorities responsible for conducting infringement proceedings than is now the case with the new offence law, or whether we continue to continue with all the procedures that are still under way under the old legislation and thus are burdensome and therefore making it difficult for these bodies to work. This, however, directly or indirectly prevents them from meeting the expectations and objectives of the new law on offences. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that the interest of the future greater effectiveness of the conduct of infringement proceedings as provided for by the law currently in force here certainly prevails. However, even if this is at the expense of stopping some of the past procedures that we consider to be less important, even in most of these cases they could not be completed within the limitation period. Nevertheless, because these procedures would continue, they would burden and prevent ongoing work under the new law without a strike. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are aware that, as a result, each abolition has a certain circle of people who come across the rules and rewards them by putting an end to the proceedings against them. On the other hand, proceedings against others who do not belong in this circle continue and these others may consider the actual abolition a criminal act, but this is subjective judgment. The essence of the abolition is that, for such or other reasons, the State decides to decide on the abolition, on the basis of the criteria laid down, establishing the limits within which the abolition is introduced and not beyond those limits. The fact that someone will not be held responsible for an offence committed by an act of the State of abolition does not, of course, mean that it is therefore a misdemeanour to one who has not been dealt with by the abolition and will therefore continue to be prosecuted or rejected. The proposed law on abolition will be supported by members of the Slovenian Democratic Party, as I have already mentioned in the introduction, as this will ensure a better, faster and more effective procedure against perpetrators of offences in the future, in line with the expectations set out in the new law on offences that have begun to be applied, as we know this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u123	Thank you, Mr. Kovacich. Ms. Cvetka Zalokar Orazem will present the position of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u124	Thank you very much. In the previous term, the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia supported the reform of criminal law because it was necessary and necessary. The number of offences prescribed and the incrimination of acts has increased almost to uncontrollability. Moreover, practice has shown that a large number of offenders can be avoided. The latter claimed a shift towards a greater effectiveness of the infringement procedure. In the LDS, we also advocated the gradual introduction of criminal reform, as we were of the opinion that redefinition requires time and good preparation. This transitional period of two years was intended to adapt to both the changes and the hope that, in the meantime, offenders will be able to eliminate at least part of the major backlogs of the past. Today we find that our expectations have not been met. We therefore agree with the abolitionist that, in order to successfully introduce the comprehensive reform of the criminal law that we have decided on, certain procedures on offences or the exercise of abolition must be put in place. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we supported the Government's proposal to deal with the bill following an urgent procedure, but we had some concerns, such as the issue of equality in relation to perpetrators of similar offences during the same period of time, the lack of precise data on the extent to which cases in the courts will be reduced, and, thirdly, a lack of financial impact assessment. In doing so, we trusted the Government to remove from the abolition all those offences that could be defined as serious violations. Today, we find that finding a suitable solution takes more time than the emergency procedure allows. In a short time - the college decided 17th, the mother labour body 18, and the national assembly today, 23 March 2005 - was unable to examine in more detail all the consequences of the law. Nevertheless, we have seen so much illogicality, inconsistencies and inconsistentness that it would probably be better if we gave more time and attention to the consideration of the bill in the National Assembly. The proposer or the government considers that the draft law will have no direct financial implications for the state budget or for other public funds. However, the bill will have financial implications. We have also found that the bill provides for the cessation of all procedures for offences prescribed by local communities for both natural and legal persons. In view of these facts, we estimate that the National Assembly may have even made a mistake in the procedure, since it did not send a proposal under Rule 45 of the Rules of Procedure to the opinion of the local communities. At the LDS, we have to admit that the previous Justice Minister of our kind has also been thinking about abolition. Unfortunately, there was not enough time to prepare the bill for the elections, as it turned out that simple matter required answers to a number of questions that could have a significant impact on respect for the law and the aspect of punishment in society. We therefore point out to the applicant that the rightfulness of the circle of entities to abolition must be justified on the basis of real reasons and, above all, to foresee how such regulation will affect respect for the law and the preventive aspect of punishment in society. In doing so, we believe that we cannot adopt the same attitude, for example, towards crimes such as road traffic rules and building regulations. It is not possible to compare the wrong parking with, for example, the black construction of the building - or perhaps. With regard to the nature of the infringements mentioned above and with the exception of some and the eligibility of the circle of entities, the applicant assesses that certain solutions are also necessary for political reasons. We ask him what are the political reasons and what are the reasons why he has included many offences in the field of the protection of natural resources, the environment, nature conservation, work, working relations, prevention and employment in black, safety and health at work and could still be listed. Therefore, we have also tabled an amendment proposing that the above-mentioned offences, which we believe are not easier or that they could be characterized as more serious offences, should be reclassified as non-adults. Of course, the position of our parliamentary group will also depend on how you vote on these amendments, because otherwise we think that the abolition is too wide.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u125	Thank you, Mrs. Zalokar Orzam. We are moving on to a second reading, which is to discuss individual amendments and articles of the amended bill. I am putting to the debate Article 1 and the amendment of the United List of Social Democrats, which proposes a new second paragraph, and the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, which proposes the new seventh indent of paragraph 1 and the new third indent of paragraph 2. Who wants a word? Here you go, Mr. Brenčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u126	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. With regard to the submission of this law, I have not detected any reaction on the part of trade unions which would be linked to the possible effects of this law, so I am particularly interested by the proposer if he can explain how the abolition of offences arising from infringements or non-implementation of labour law and which are reflected both in material and in other types of injury which is particularly weaker in these relationships is the workers. That's the first one. I don't think such offenses should be the subject of abortion, and I also understood the law at the beginning that they weren't. Secondly, of course, the area of health safety at work, I understand where the violations of the law and in particular related to the failure to enforce the law are so severe that there has been more damage or serious injury, an object which the abolition does not deal with. But there have also been injuries that are not more severe, but are long-term for one worker - and this should not be the subject of an abortion. I somehow couldn't figure out from the marriage whether that was the case. In this case it will certainly be necessary to stop [[?]] on the amendment of the Club of Liberal Democracy, and this matter somewhat from the point of view of the drafters of the law explain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u127	Thank you, Mr. Brenčich. Do you want to answer immediately? Here you go, Mr. Marolt.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u128	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much, Mr Brenčič, for this question. The fact is that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not oppose this amendment by the Liberal Democrats of Slovenia for the reason that this amendment does not affect the concept of the proposed law. The fact is that the law itself from the abolition is an exception to the serious infringements for which high penalties have been imposed. With regard to the number of labour relations issues, and according to the data available to us, there are currently 1,062 cases in the field of labour law pending, there are 625 cases already in arrears and 312 cases in the field of health at work are pending and 215 cases are still pending. This also indicates the urgency of adopting the proposed law, indicating that a large number of pending cases are obsolete or obsolete. That is why the proposed abolition is more than necessary for judges or current district judges to start dealing with more important matters. That's why the government supports this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u129	Thank you, Mr. Marolt. Mr. Potch has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u130	Thank you very much. The government has made an effort to find arguments against our amendment. I argue that there is no record and there is no way to support the amendment, I accept. If there are no records, this amendment is irrelevant, but it has to be said why, it is because there are no records. All other arguments hold less. First of all, Mr Marolt, Mr Secretary of State, you spoke of the contention that this should be a contradictory text, where the acts already said should be. Please read the amendment, it's an act where it hasn't yet, not that it has been. That's the contradiction in your statement. As for the presumption of innocence, we know that it exists, but we do not stem from it, but from the fact that if a similar offence was committed three times in one year, it could be at least potentially for a so-called special returnee and it would probably not be kind and pleasant that such an offence would also be taken into account for the abolition. In the end, let me say it again. If you do not have records, then it is clear that this amendment, even if you supported it, would not be possible to implement it, because it would not be possible to determine for anyone whether he has committed a similar offence three times already. But I must say that more than that, this is a inherited state, I am concerned by your explanation that there will not be a single record of the crimes committed, but only by individual district courts. I don't think that's good, and it's probably time to think about it. What you were saying about court order and priorities. Of course, if we wanted to, we could also change and introduce different priorities. That's for you to decide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u131	Thank you, Mr. Run. Would you like to answer immediately, Mr. Marolt?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u132	Thank you very much. With regard to your amendment, it is actually, unfortunately, substantively internally contradictory. In the first part, when he speaks of perpetrators who have committed three offences, that must be determined first. As far as the record is concerned, the actual record has not been established. It is here that the legacy of the former government and the former authorities has failed to provide information on the entire judicial system, both the judiciary and the prosecutions, and in fact this is the prevailing situation that the new government has taken over. This situation is obviously out of order. The new government will strive to establish as effective a system as possible. It is true, however, that we now have a record and will be provided with a record of the lawfully punished. Unfortunately, there is no central record for those who are in the course of the offence. That is why this is not actually in the infringement procedure and it is not really possible to ensure this. I would like to stress once again, given the criteria and criteria when you asked the question earlier, the principles of equality, or the principles of inequality. This is due to the fact that someone has actually been penalized by a smaller criminal judge, and to a larger criminal judge, such as Ljubljana and others, the cases are obsolete. However, this is the legacy and responsibility of the past government or the past system, which did not ensure that matters could flow smoothly. The fact is that the problem is that we have about 5,000 specific offences or acts that constitute an offence, and this also results in some kind of impossibility. Once again, in the event that the abolition would not be adopted, this would in fact, under existing legislation, mean that we should solve old things that are so outdated. The fact is, however, that these are major financial consequences for the country if judges deal with criminal cases that are known to be obsolete later on. Therefore, it is precisely the intention of the government to exempt from the abolition the most serious acts that have been carried over from the past year and to try to resolve these matters and then to commit the new crimes that have been committed this year. It is also true that the government has had two years to prepare and introduce a new criminal system, but obviously not everything has been done to avoid such a transfer of cases into a new criminal system and so many cases transferred. Once again, I would like to point out that this would only mean one year and seven months at least to resolve matters. At that time, a large number of these matters would be obsolete. From the point of view of the State, it is also really ineffective and irrational that judges for offences solve wealth cases, for example, a safety belt or a small speed overrun and cases are outdated. The facts must also be borne in mind that every judge or court also costs a certain amount of budgetary resources each month and for the whole year. We therefore believe that this proposal from the Government is justified.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u133	Thank you, Mr. Marolt. Mrs. Pecanova has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u134	With regard to abolition, we also talked a lot in circles outside the National Assembly with people who commit, issue or identify offences in both the area of inspection services, the whole of the police force, and the municipal authorities who identify, on the basis of individual field laws, the service of offences and then because the perpetrators are most likely to avoid punishment because they know what was going on in the courts for offences, they complain that these offences will then be obsolete. Two questions have been raised here in these discussions and discussions. One question is, does it mean that the work of all these people that I've listed before has been thrown away? Yeah, it's thrown away. Thousands and thousands of police officers who have done their work honestly and well, who have reduced the number of deaths and other traffic accidents in their work. All those inspectors who found offenders in the field and where these misdemeanors don't go beyond a certain limit, all these inspectors worked without need. For a year, thousands of people have been thrown away by this abolition. Okay. It is necessary to relieve the judicial service, because these same people who are so far, I can agree with you that the previous government has been working poorly. [[...]] I would ask myself otherwise: What were the judges doing for crimes? Why did the judges need, as you said, to issue each decision on the offence on average after 12 months. Except that it was a matter of negligible little things, such as non-bonding with the belt. I also think that the penalty for not being tied to the belt, even though I don't think they came to the judge for the offences, because he couldn't prove that he was tied to the belt, is that your claim is questionable here. This is also a way to protect the offender from death or serious injuries. And I think it's important to ask here whether your so-called court order is not talking about anything else, not just a timeline, but priorities in particular. As far as I know, at least our judges for offences in Slovenia have told us that they can't handle the offences that cause our customers in the municipalities to complain, because they have the advantage. I don't know about you, you, and you, and the tougher offenses that need to be dealt with first. I totally agree with that. Major offenses, but worse offenses must be dealt with first. It is said that it is not true that the court order speaks only of the timing, that if it belonged to an offence to a judge for offences on 1 February 2004, then it must be handled first, but it is important what was the severity of the offence. So, here are your claims according to my practice, after what I do know, by not being all lucky or unfortunately for me, because when I commit a crime, I speak of course of traffic offences, I have this stupid habit, as it all shows, because that's the other thing I've been trying to say, I have this stupid habit of going and paying the penalty immediately. I'm not even complaining to the guilty judge because I think that the police officer or that body of the criminal authority that gave me the sentence found that I had committed the offence. He probably has all the solid evidence that I've committed this crime. And I'm paying. This, of course, also gives me a famous discount. It's a good thing we have this. But, me and the crowd, and here we can talk about tens of thousands of people who are punishing the crimes they committed and who have been identified by the individual authorities, are paying off immediately, we all appear to be the biggest fools this year because we did it, otherwise we could have complained to the judge about the violations, the case would not have been closed and we would have been pretty in the range of abolition. That's great! So these two are two valid arguments for my terms, why those people who repeat similar offences, even if they are smaller, but they are chronic repeaters - I personally know people who have a collection of payment orders for individual offences that are identical. I know people who have three screens on the police -- three screens, they call them cops -- crimes that are more or less similar, but they don't fall out of abolition, but they will be excused for any punishment because they belong to their crimes in a collection of those who aren't important enough. But they will say, yes, but now we are the ones in charge, because we can do these crimes because the state has found that we have given so much work to the judges for crimes and to the current new district judges that they will simply not be able to control us. Therefore, I believe that your claim about the non-consistency or internal non-conformity of our amendment does not also stand, and I would ask you to explain once again again seriously what this non-conformity is.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u135	Thank you, Mrs. Pecans. Mr. Marolt, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u136	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I think I've already explained it twice, and I don't want to say it the third time. It's about dealing with judges for offences. The fact is, in the old system, the judges acted under the rules of the internal procedure of the infringement authorities, which, inter alia, established the priority order for the handling of cases, so that matters were not normally resolved by order of order to be dealt with by the body. This regulation has indeed set out matters which are dealt with as a matter of priority under the law itself, and at the same time authorised the Council of Judges for Offences to determine by decision the priority treatment of certain offences. The prioritisation of the Rules of Procedure and the decision was illegal, as the Act on Offences in Article 288, provided that the Internal Procedure Rules provide for the internal operation of the authorities for the infringement procedure, but did not provide that the Rules may provide for the order of treatment. This very proposal of yours may in some way be contrary to yourself when you mention an individual who has many misdemeanours in the process. It is precisely this abolition that allows, in the case of cases in which the abolition has been excluded or is now causing these offences, the obvious service of the offence is said to be obvious first - the fact is that the District Court has to determine whether the individual has committed an obvious offence, that is to say, the abolition allows these current alleged violations of the court to be dealt with and also issue an appropriate decision not to transfer the statute of limitations. Because, once again, the timing is very important. If the judges handle old cases now, the new ones will soon become obsolete. It is true that the new Law on Offences provides for an even longer, relatively two-year and absolute four-year limitation period, but the mortgage, the legacy of these writings, is so numerous, massive that judges cannot solve it sooner than one year and seven months. Despite the resolution of these matters, these matters would be obsolete. Indeed, the reform of criminal authorities in the judiciary does not produce the desired effects in terms of legal certainty, in terms of equal treatment and also in terms of effective treatment and effective work of the judiciary in our country.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u137	Thank you, Mr. Marolt. Mrs. Zalokarev has the word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u138	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Once again, I am very pleased that the government has supported our amendment and I hope that there will be other Members and Members, who include those in the field of the protection of natural wealth, the environment and nature, safety and health at work, work and employment in black and labour relations and in the area of building buildings. In this short time, we have tried to find out by various laws, because this government's material did not cover, especially the point which highlighted the limit of a million and a half, which would be those offences that could have been adopted in this case. Of course, the review of this story has shown that many people would still be involved in the circle of aboriginal offences, which we believe would not be worthwhile and which we have already discussed at the outset as a parliamentary group. However, allow me to state what would have happened in the course of these offences, for example. in the nature conservation law, where the lowest penalty is set at a million, these would be offences for legal persons who, for example, would destroy a plant and animal species that would, for example, act against natural value by endangering its existence by deliberately destroying and destroying habitat populations and so on. We felt even worse about the construction law, where virtually all individuals, i.e. natural persons, who would commit construction, construction, reconstruction or removal without a building permit, would have been adopted. So roughly, all individuals as blacksmiths. We have also found that in the field of employment relations where the highest or lowest penalty is prescribed a million tolars, all legal persons who would enter into a contract of employment for a person who has not yet reached the age of 15 who has not provided protection against sexual harassment. Then, for example, there would be abolition penalties against those who would not take into account the minimum wage set by a specific law or collective agreement that binds employers. Legal persons who would require a worker to work part-time or part-time work that would not provide safe working conditions that would not provide workers with a break between working hours and breaks between working days and weekly rest periods would also be approved. In short, very important things that we thought we could not be classified among those crimes that we might consider to be somehow easier in nature. Surely we cannot compare black builders, serious violators in the field of working relations with someone who, for example, did not happen to the safety belt. I therefore hope that this amendment, which we have tabled, will in fact prevent these anomalies, and I am also pleased that the government supports this amendment and I hope that this will really prevent all the bitter feelings that we have had, and I can also say that in this case we will also support this change of law or abolicia in the Liberal Democracy.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u139	Thank you, Mrs. Zalokarev. Mr. Marolt, do you want it now? Yes, there you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u140	I'll be very brief. Only a minor problem is that you're proposing a new seventh indent. We already have nine indents, so it has to be recalculated. And then paragraph 2, you propose a third indent, but already in the bill of government we have three indents in which certain offences are taken from the abolition. I apologize, however, but I would also like to answer Mrs Pecan's Members about the perpetrator who caused the accident. The fact is that, according to a government proposal for a law, abolition exempts offences that resulted in a traffic accident in which material damage to other persons was caused or caused to them by minor or serious bodily injury or in which someone died or died as a result of a traffic accident in 30 days. These actions between these nine exceptions are exempted.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u141	Thank you, Mr. Marolt. The first list of panellists has been completed. Anybody else want to discuss this? Continuum, Gantar. Anyone else? Kucler. Mr. Contic, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u142	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr State Secretary, with your explanation of the government's rejection of the amendment of the United List of Social Democrats, you certainly did not convince me. I think that this amendment is not only logical, but even necessary if we are to prevent the rise of returnees in individual offences and not actually reward them with this abolition. I also agree with the assessment given today that we are certainly interfering with the work of the repressive police authorities. Unfortunately, we will find that all the work that has been done in the past in the police ranks and that the abolition will include them has been completely unnecessary and it would make sense for police to spend somewhere else, perhaps in the preventive field of action. There is no record - this is a data that is at least frightening to me, and it may be the fault of the previous government, as you have found. In this case, however, I think it is primarily justice, an institution which should point out and establish this. How are we going to do the abolition if we don't even have a record of the crimes? What's this abolition going to be? Who will it affect if we don't know who they are, if we don't know who did it once, who did it twice, who did it three times? Are we just going to forgive them for once, or are we going to accept the abolition for all their procedures? Because if only for once, then we don't even need our amendment, but I don't think that's the case. When we talk about judges dealing with cases that would be obsolete in one way or another and are therefore primarily a cost. Judges are a cost in any case, whether they solve these cases or not. However, if we think that these matters are going to get old in one way or another and that it is worth it to the State or to us that the judges are solving new matters because we are going to get something out of this, then we are wrong in thinking. The Court should not work to avoid, above all, the imposition of penalties, but are intended primarily for a trial such as we imagine it to be the right thing to do. When we talk about the abolition and when some will receive this abolition, those who have paid a fair price in the past year are exempt from this, I think we call all those who - let's say, if we stay only for traffic offences - drive on our roads to massively violate the rules. If we commit mass violations of the rules, the court will be sedated, and if the court fails, next year we will re-adopt the abolition for this year. This is a call for the fact that the offences do not actually increase, which has been the goal so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u143	Thank you, Mr. Kontic. Mr. Gantar has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u144	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I will continue to support this law on the cessation of certain procedures on offences, if it is adopted, and it appears to be a positive relationship, the amendment of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. I believe that this amendment is necessary and important in particular because we also need to look at the effectiveness of environmental, construction and spatial policies. We ourselves know that we have relatively good environmental programmes, good plans and projects, but sometimes we whisper in their implementation. One option to increase this effectiveness is to control control and also final sanctions, although it is not the only one, whether by punishing or by misdemeanouring or by using this instrument or any other instrument. In fact, this amendment does not allow certain important elements that relate to environmental protection, to relation to natural resources, to the relation to construction in space to be excluded, and allows in fact that the effectiveness of environmental policy does not diminish spatially and that in fact we do not give in this way to potential violators in this area the knowledge that they can do anything in this area, either because they will be affected by aolicia or aging. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u145	Quiet, please. Thank you, Mr. Gantar. Mrs. Kucler Dolinar has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u146	In particular, I have intended to highlight this nomotechnic question, which was raised by the applicant. Therefore, whether the proposal for amendments is submitted in the correct form or whether a harmonisation amendment should also be made for the purpose of marking the indents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u147	Thank you. However, I believe that this is being considered after the amendment has been adopted, on the possible need for a harmonisation amendment. Anybody else want to discuss this? Here you go, Mr. Run.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u148	Thank you. I will support the amendment tabled by my colleagues and colleagues from the Liberal Democracy. I would like to say, however, that I have said on my mother's working body and now I repeat, for the criteria used by the government in defining exceptions, I bear no responsibility and you are not gentlemen in many words and in hospitality, because you have repeated the same things over and over again, and you have said nothing about the criteria. If the criteria so far have been such that many violations have been exempted from them, which are of exceptional importance either to people or to the construction of buildings or to security, then I must say, I do not know what criteria you had. If all the misdemeanors below a million and a half are exempted, then you also did not have the criteria for budget revenue, because these traffic offences are probably "less expensive", I would say cheaper than those with the threatened penalty of a million 400 or a million. What criteria did you have? How are you with all the competent ministries that have prescribed, as you yourself said, too many penalties, 5,000 offenses, that's too much, but how have you done these interviews with them to reach the criteria? I must say that now that I am listening to this debate and to your arguments, this really worries me so much more. I have a feeling that you've made up your mind, as it was written, it must be. And now you say it again, it's possible. You just can't tell me why you're refusing anything. If the judges had acted on a new one, as it is now prescribed, they would have resolved old cases and things would have failed again and again. Change the court order because it's in our power because it's not a thing that someone in Culocafre does. I know, you change it, and it could be arranged, or it could be solved in order of difficulty, or you could say, what's two months before it goes down is out of the question, because that way we know we're not going to end it. But you don't have any criteria like that. What is written is holy truth, and from this I must say, it is bad to believe that things are well thought out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u149	Thank you, Mr. Run. Here you go, Mr. Marolt.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u150	Thank you very much. I would like to reiterate once again that the criterion for abolition is the weight or rejection of an individual act defined by the level of the penalty at stake. So we have a certain capital punishment, a cash fine, and a lateral penalty. According to the government's proposal for abolition, it is explicitly stipulated that non-abolishment of those offences which, in addition to a financial penalty, are subject to a foreign penalty. This is the criterion and criterion clearly set out in Article 1 of the bill. What are these criteria and are precisely defined or specified in nine indents. The answer is very clear. These violations are exempt from abolition.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u151	Thank you, Mr. Marolt. Since I no longer see the desire for a debate, I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision on the amendment. We will first decide on the amendment of the United List of Social Democrats to Article 1, the amendment proposing a new second paragraph. We're voting. The vote is under way. 58 Members and Members are present. The vote was 19 to 38. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are voting on the amendment of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia to Article 1, which adds the new seventh indent of the first delivery and the new third indent in the second paragraph. We're voting. The vote is under way. 58 Members and Members are present. 56 votes against no one. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. I'm finishing second reading. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that the Second reading assembly has adopted the amendment of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia to Article 1 of the amended bill. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table an amendment to this Article. If not, then I find that no amendments were tabled in the third reading. On the basis of Article 140, paragraph 5, I inform you or ask the representative of the Government whether the law is harmonised.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u152	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In fact, there is no harmonised indent because we have the seventh and third indents and there is a need for harmonisation.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-03-23-SDZ4-Redna-04.ana.u153	After consulting the assistant, we do not consider that there is a lack of consistency in this respect, since there is no substantive mismatch, since the paragraphs are not numbered and there is no need to determine the numbering of the indents. Do you want to add something to this opinion? [[No, no, ……]] Then we believe that the law is harmonised and that we are moving on to a decision on the law. We're voting. The vote is under way. 58 Members and Members are present. The vote was 52, 2 against. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item and also interrupt the 4th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which we will continue on Tuesday 29 March 2005. All of you have a nice holiday.
