ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 11th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Bogdan Barovič, Ferri Horvat, Ivan Jelen, Bojan Kontič, Mojca Kucler Dolinar, Dr. Marko Pavliha, Miro Petek and Maria Possonec. We're moving to nine. POINT OF THE DAY - ANOTHER DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPORTS OF THE LAW ON PUBLIC OFFICERS. In doing so, I inform you that a total time of 4 hours and 45 minutes is foreseen. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to a government representative for further explanation. Minister Gregor Virant, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! You have before you amendments to the Law on Public Servants, which are quite extensive, but do not interfere with the pillars of this law, which began to apply in 2003. Thus, the law has now been in force for about two and a half years, and the government has assessed that changes are necessary for two main reasons. For the first time, because practice has shown impurities in certain areas and in certain procedures, and for the second time because we want to follow the concept of friendly and effective public administration. Once again, I stress that those main pillars of the Public Servants Act, such as, say, the principle of selecting officials through public competitions, the functioning of the official council, the choice of people for the highest management posts and so on, these pillars remain intact. The essential amendments introduced by law are as follows: Firstly, it brings the position of employees in the public administration of the position of employees in the private sector, in particular with regard to the termination of the employment contract. It facilitates the identification of responsibilities for failing to achieve the expected work results and for infringements of work obligations, while maintaining those safeguards contained in labour legislation that also apply to employees in the private sector. It brings new instruments to reduce the number of employees in the administration, tools to make it easier for the government to achieve the goal it has set itself, this is the objective of restrictive staff policy and a gradual reduction in the number of employees in the administration. It removes the benefits of a 100 % compensation in the event of a hospital absence that some groups of civil servants have, but not all others, and also employees in the private sector do not have. It ensures greater flexibility of the public administration's human resources system. It facilitates relocation to other jobs, but also while maintaining the necessary security guards. The law will also simplify the system for assessing performance and progress. Under the current regime we have two systems, one is for promotion to higher wage classes, the other is for promotion to higher titles. It is simpler to use one performance assessment, one annual evaluation and that this basis is both for promotion to a higher pay grade and for promotion to a higher title. The law eliminates the excessive distinction between two groups of civil servants, that is, between officials and technical and technical staff. They are all part of the same collective, and therefore this distinction creates a bad will and a worse relationship than they could have been. The law also implements the Constitutional Court’s decision imposing on the Constitutional Court that the legislator should set a time limit within which discharges of directors may be possible without undue grounds. Perhaps for the first time, a few sentences on those key changes that I have announced, the first time that I have spoken about, the position of an employee in a public administration, the position of a private sector employee, and a better definition of responsibility. We estimate that there is no valid reason for there to be a significant difference between the employment status of the employee in the company, in the economy, in the private sector on the one hand and employees in public administration on the other. In both cases, it is about organisations, business systems that must provide services effectively and qualitatively. My assessment is that in the administration there is a critical mass or most of those who are willing to do much and who accept this philosophy of friendly and effective administrations, but they are still those who show this image and cast a bad light on the functioning of the entire public administration and it is not right that they cause the shadow to fall or the light to fall on everyone else, including those who are doing well. This is the way in which the law applies the provisions of the Labour Relations Act in order to determine the liability and termination of the employment contract for infringements of work obligations and inability to do so, so instead of the procedures so far so complex, we are moving on to determine whether the employment relationship has been cancelled due to disability or for reasons of fault, in accordance with the Labour Relations Act, as is the case for employees in the economy. Instruments for reducing the number of employees. This year, the government reduced the employment quotas for individual authorities of the state administration, since July, we continue to record even a reversed trend, and the actual reduction in the number of employees in the administration is true, and we need instruments, tools that will make this easier for us. Surely these tools are also responsible for infringements of work obligations, identifying the inability of public servants in cases where this incapacity has been given, still need to be demonstrated under the new law, and there is still a possibility of appeal and judicial judgement, but the procedures are simpler, they are faster. The instrument introduced by law, which has already sparked a considerable debate in the debate on the working body, is also an opportunity to break the staff member's working relationship, which meets the full conditions for retirement, because I believe that the debate will open at the time of the amendment, and I would not explain this now in a broad way. I mentioned abolishing the privilege of 100% compensation, which is why some groups of public servants are still receiving 100% of their salary today in the event of a hospital absence, it is for employees in the police and the enforcement of criminal sanctions. The National Assembly has already abolished this privilege for the officials we have enjoyed, and we believe that it is right that this privilege should also be lifted for privileged groups of public servants. Then only a group of judges remain, and this problem will be solved by the law on judicial service. The calculations have shown us something else that this change in the police means even more favourable, i.e. a fairer payment of compensation, because calculations show that police officers performing their work on the ground will receive the same or even higher compensation due to this change in the case of hospital leave, while, of course, police officers in the rank of, for example, a police councillor, and especially those doing office work that is not exposed to field work, will actually receive lower compensation in case of hospital absence than they have received so far. Special emphasis is also placed on simplifying human resources procedures. We maintain the principle of public competition with predetermined criteria and the possibility of appealing to unelected candidates, but we simplify certain matters, such as that we can also take into account, as work experience, the experience gained in a different form and not only in the form of a formal working relationship, that we will publish public competitions or invitations to tender on the Internet and not in the employment institution. In order to simplify the service in the case of public tenders and the handling of incomplete applications, it could also be listed. As regards the implementation of the Constitutional Court decision. Remember, the contested law, which was challenged before the Constitutional Court, established a rule whereby people could be resolved at any time in the cities, i.e. in the positions of the Director in the public administration without any ground of guilt. In principle, the Constitutional Court has established that discharge is constitutionally permissible for non-criminal reasons. However, it has imposed on the legislator, and thus, of course, also on the Government, as the proponents of this law, to set a time limit within which this can be done. We have decided to legislate a year, and this deadline begins to run with the arrival or replacement of the minister, the mayor, the Prime Minister, that is to say the official responsible for the Director. However, we also propose that a narrow option, equal opportunity, should be granted to the Director within one year of the date on which he was appointed. If, on the basis of a decision of the Constitutional Court, a certain test period for directors is introduced, this trial period should not apply only from the moment the government is replaced when the Minister is replaced, for this trial period has a considerable political approach. But let this trial period, so-called, run from the day the director is appointed. In this case, however, discharge for non-criminal reasons would in no case be conditional on political reasons. Because in fact, the director would be relieved, or his discharge, by the one he also appointed or proposed his appointment. I could say that, with this extension, we want to depoliticise this institution of discharge for non-criminal reasons. If it is possible only one year after the Minister's change, it is quite politically conditional, but if it is possible even one year after the appointment of the Director, of course, it is conditioned by what we basically wanted by the normal functioning of the organisation, by normal relations within the management team, by normal relations between, say, the minister and the director, between the mayor and the director of the municipal administration and so on. For we know, everyone who has run an organisation and has experience knows that, of course, the functioning of the management team depends on many factors and that the poor functioning of the management team, the mismatch, such as disagreements around concepts, different views on work, can lead to dysfunctions, the poor functioning of the organisation, and this can be done both in the company and in the ministry, as in the body of the Ministry, in the administrative unit, etc. Finally, what is the degree of coordination of this law with the social partners, i.e. trade unions. The coordination was long, tiring and difficult. In this process, trade unions have implemented a number of comments that we have taken into account and the law has not been harmonised until the end and remains inconsistent in some points. Some, not all unions, for example, want to maintain the current system, which distinguishes the procedures for identifying incapacity and responsibility for infringements of public administration and private sector labour obligations, which I think is also a key gap between the government and I stress, some public administration unions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u3	Thank you, Minister Virant. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent working body and prepared a report with an updated proposal for a law. We are moving on to a presentation of the views of the groups. Member Vila Rezman will present the position of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u4	Nice greetings to all present. There is no doubt that the DeSUS Group will support the law under certain conditions and with certain corrections, what we consider to be a specific condition is, of course, the amendment we are proposing. We will support the law because the bill brings some positive changes, some improvements and some have already been mentioned, and it is certainly good that some of the privileges still in force are abolished. Surely it is good that what was in conflict with the Constitution is likely to be harmonized after an unnecessary amount of stubbornness. In most cases, it is about improving the system, improving efficiency or greater impartiality and independence, and this is what we are asking, but it is about improving certain procedures, and it is also about being willing to support this. It changes, so at least we assess, partly also the concept, in a way that goes to a greater degree of competitiveness, which goes to a greater degree of impersonality, more in terms of understanding employees in public administration than some statistical units and economic units, at least we can understand this if this is put into the context of an urgent reduction in the number of employees in public administration. Therefore, the DeSUS majority supports but warns and proposes, in relation to this law, some amendments. For the first time, the law says a lot of things that are not clearly written. So what's in the subtext or in the context. I've been talking about changing status to statistical. It is right to mention this, although this does not say that it is increasing in certain places and for certain categories of discrimination, gold, when we compare some public servants with those employed in the private sector and when we compare certain age categories of employees in public administration. It is also bigger, so we judge the possibility of arbitration, the greater the power of the leaders, the bosses and the greater the power or the possibility of some cleansing processes. It is therefore now easier to apply the principle of conceptual compatibility. The DeSUS amendment seeks at least some of these weaknesses to be rectified. We hope that it will be supported, because we do not support such a degree of job flexibility as is foreseen, but not such an automaticity that those whom the chairman can send to peace will be sent to retirement when certain conditions are provided. The main objective, as the proposalr says, is to increase flexibility, to manage human resources more effectively and to equalise the status of workers in the economy in private. So more modern public administration. I've quoted some words now. But with this modern public administration it is so, I will somewhat ironically present it in the area of a concept that is directly linked to it. It's about fashion. It's so fashionable to talk about timing. So at a certain time, a taste is established, and then it becomes a criterion. A very well - known and wise man said that this was something ugly enough to change it every 6 months. And that also has political implications. Thus, as fashion changes, some criteria for compatibility can also be changed. However, DeSUS does not have much flexibility for such excessively flexibleness, and in particular not to introduce discrimination against older workers, which is also clearly contrary to the whole series of documents we have already adopted, which I do not have time to talk about, but my fellow Member, Mr Žnidaršič, will certainly speak in a hectic manner.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u5	Thank you. Her position is to be presented by the Member of the Hungarian National Community, Maria Pozsonec, but she is not in the Chamber. A presentation of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group is under way. Ambassador Rudolf Petan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary, Your Honor! One of the purposes of the law is certainly a long-term desire for our public administration to become more efficient, user-oriented, even more professional, in short, more friendly to citizens. On the other hand, such a large system requires effective functioning, with clear definitions of rights and, on the other hand, of duty. A system of tens of thousands of employees must also enable the management of sufficient resources, say, with the staff and maximum efficiency of the performance of tasks. Being a public service or being in a public service does not mean inviolability, but helping users, but at the same time - whether or not someone likes it - a mirror of the country to the citizens. It is in this sector that the attitude of every government towards citizens, the kindness and efficiency of employees in the public sector, and the behaviour of who is responsible for which side of the official window. Because of the different values that we have set and cultivated or have put ourselves in the past, this is an area where there have been and still there are anomalies which, due to the awareness of users, are even more critical to the public than other professions or other employees. On the other hand - and this is how we feel in the SDS and we support -the provision of professional, efficient and legal tasks means the establishment of an appropriate incentive system for employees. One important element is the promotion of capable officials and generally a system of behaviour from integration into the system to employment or to dismissal. Some of this saves the changes that are the subject of this treatment. Some of the content is also aligned with other solutions and content, as well as the decisions of the Constitutional Court. The amendments address areas such as equalising the status of civil servants with private sector employees in terms of termination of the employment relationship, identification of incapacity and disciplinary procedure, as well as, for example, the right to education, which is the interest of the employer who is expanding here. Work performance as one of the important elements for promotion to a higher class should be assessed by a more uniform or even uniform system. This certainly includes the regulation of the law enforcement status in case of employment with another employer, if there is a public interest after return, such as employment in the institutions of the European Union, NATO or any other international institution. And one of the elements of flexibility is also shown in Article 36, which speaks of working for a certain period of up to five years with the possibility of repeating it once again. Here just as an example, now, if he's the luckiest or not, we'd like to put the Schengen border, the protection of the Schengen border. We know that this is a temporary solution, and how long it will take at this point cannot be predicted. The transparency of the system includes the unification of evaluation and promotion systems, the legal definition of two systems that have not yet been harmonised, that is not yet harmonised, that one is a system of progress under the law on the public sector wage system, and the other allows progress to be made in the higher classes under the law on public servants, and that change will harmonise and remove disorder in this area, which is very sensitive. The excessive distinction between officials and workers in the technical field or, as the Minister said at the hearing on the home committee, between those working on the content and those working on the accompanying activities should also be eliminated. Such distinctions gave a bad feeling and did not contribute to motivation for work, even more, gave a sense of discrimination. The amendments also address the decisions of the Constitutional Court concerning the time limit for discharge of the Director without false grounds. In the SDS, we support the solution that when a worker in public administration reaches the conditions for retirement, he actually does. Under different conditions, this solution might not be supportive, but given that we have a lot of unemployed people, especially those looking for a first job, such a solution is understandable. As this is a step forward for a more friendly public administration, we support the proposed proposal in the SDS. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u7	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the position of the Member Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Dr. Pavel Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u8	Mr Vice-President, distinguished Minister with colleagues, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In the LDS, we do not oppose the proposal of the law in its entirety and support the objectives of this amendment and at the same time a number of concrete solutions, some of which have already been mentioned by the Minister, I would like to stress in particular that we welcome this change in the assessment, planning of staffing needs, increasing employment opportunities for a certain period and also certain aspects of flexible working conditions and could also mention them. However, we must be aware that the changes in the public sector's service relations have been extensive in recent years and that some of the solutions have not even been strengthened, but we are already changing them. Therefore, often changing the law is detrimental to some stability of relations, which is not particularly good, but if the Minister, who was also the prime author in the previous mandate of the government, found that some solutions do not work as well as they should, that some solutions may not be as good as we thought they were, then it is legitimate and right that certain things change. Of course, we must first say that the proposed amendments greatly strengthen the power of every once-in-a-lifetime authority acting on behalf of the employer, that is, the country. On the other hand, the situation of employees or public servants is exacerbated. In particular, if this is illustrated by the incompetence procedure and in fact, in our view, the incapacity should be assessed by a certain commission, not by the fact that the chairman so decides. The proposed changes, which in essence mean greater flexibility in working relations, would be supported with a significantly lighter heart, while increasing the expertise and political neutrality of public administration. However, since this type of change does not go in this direction, these changes also open up room for political intervention, lower-level officials and not only senior officials, as was the case with the previous amendment of the law. Under the flag of flexibility and enforcement of the labour relations of public servants and employees in the economy, processes can actually take place and already, political discipline, and it can happen that some politically incompatible public officials will be known to be incapacitated. If we add to this the observation of external observers and good experts from the Slovenian state administration that many replacements and relocations already affect the quality of work, especially those linked to the European Union, our concern is even more justified. In particular, when concluding, I should draw attention to the provision of Article 45, paragraph 2, which is intended to eliminate the non-compliance with the Constitution established by the Constitutional Court and restricts the Government to the replacement of senior officials in the course of senior officials during the entire term of office. The proposer has made a cynical mockery of the Constitutional Court's decision and is correcting his error in the notes by allowing an official to serve as a senior official within one year to resolve it for no reason whatsoever. This means that in one term, an official may replace at least four, if not more senior officials in one job. That is why, of course, we have proposed an amendment to correct this error in the footnotes and we are implementing the intention of the Constitutional Court. Of course, our vote on this law will depend on the fate of this amendment. If the amendment is not adopted, we will not be able to support the law clearly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u9	Thank you. Here comes a presentation of the position of the Socialist Group of Members. Member Miran Run.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u10	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary. Dear colleagues and colleagues. To a large extent, the public administration system depends on the regulation of the situation and the rights of public officials. Since 1 January 2003, the government has already adopted a new system of public servants for the second time. In the spring of this year, to ensure a political impact on the administration so that all the most responsible administrative officials can replace their entire five-year term, without any ground of guilt, only because they are politically inappropriate. At the request of the Social Democrats and the Liberal Democracy, the Constitutional Court thus declared the Government's intention incompatible with the Constitution and now, after less than two years of operation, when all the assumptions of the law have not yet been established, comes with a comprehensive revision of the law. It argues that in order to address the uncertainties and dilemmas that have been demonstrated in practice after one year of law enforcement, and in particular in order to establish a more efficient service system that will bring the service relationship closer to that of the private sector. The analysis or a serious assessment of the weaknesses of the newly established system, supported by the evaluation of the profession and the opinions of the social partners, has not been offered by the Government, and these changes and additions can therefore only be assessed in the light of the proposed content and the consequences it will cause. These, however, show that the Government wants to reduce significantly, not only the specificities, but also the extent of the rights of employees in the service relationship and to bring them as close as possible to the working situation in the private sector, although it is clear that the tasks of the state of administration and public servants as those of those tasks are different from those of employees in the private sector, that it wants to maximise the rights and powers of officials and officials, and that it also ensures their political obedience to the government and to ministers, through the broad possibility of non-criminal dismissal of the highest officials, through the extension of the possibility of entering into a fixed-term service relationship, through the increased powers of supervisors in the disciplinary process, through easier termination of work, relocation and so forth. In the Social Democrats, we have therefore proposed a public presentation of opinions on the law and have sought to establish the degree of coordination between social parties on the content of the law. The public presentation highlighted many different views and many questions. Cooperation on the content of solutions between the social partners has taken place, although the value of this cooperation is very different from that of the government and the other unions. However, in the Social Democrats, we believe that the proposed solutions follow mainly in the administrative logic. To make a civil servant obedient to the superior and current government policy. Putting him in a relationship when his position and his job will always be at stake, not because of bad work, but mainly because of lack of understanding and the will of the superior. Obedience may also be a matter of understanding the legality of which each official should be independent and independent rather than subordinate to a ruling coalition adapted to the interpretation of the law. It therefore becomes one of the fundamental objectives of regulation, under the coat of arms of order and greater efficiency of administration, which as a political password is valid and certainly has public support for each government, and in fact leads to an ever-increasing lack of innovation, immobility, less expertise and independence, but all in the end to a greater degree of transparency in the administration, in which the subordinate will think primarily about what he thinks and how his boss will act, not how he will successfully carry out the tasks of public administration. For the Social Democrats, these are the aims and solutions of the law of poor direction, a change from a high-level concept, from a highly professional modern and politically independent administration to a bureaucratic administration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u11	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the position of the New Slovenia Group, Member Anton Kokalj.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u12	The aim of each country is to have motivated staff and satisfied users. There are several measures to improve public administration, from electronic services, to simplify procedures, to raise the quality of services, and above all human resources management is very important. The substantial changes provided by the additions and amendments to the Law on Public Servants go towards bringing the status of public servants closer to those of private sector employees. Nevertheless, the specific regulation of public servants must be maintained due to the different tasks and powers they have as holders of public functions. The State plays two roles at the same time, in the role of employer and in the role of legislator, and therefore has this possibility in some way of arbitral interference with staff relations. The proposal for a law that is ahead of us corrects the shortcomings that have arisen when applied in practice, improves existing solutions and new ones deal with areas that have not yet been regulated. The Ministry of Public Administration has aligned the bill to the extent possible with the unions, and a public presentation of the opinions was also made in the National Assembly. The changes are divided into several sets. A human resources plan and personnel records shall be established. A faster procedure is possible when the job is vacant, employment is introduced for a certain period of time, especially for police officers due to the future movement of the Schengen border. Two relatively separate systems of evaluation and promotion have been or have been in force so far. In the area of promotion to a higher title and in the area of promotion to a higher pay grade. The system will now be unified and the government will determine the way. All officials will be evaluated for the possibility of advancing to a higher pay grade. The possibility of leaving the rights and obligations of the employment relationship, returning to work without competition shall be introduced in the case of a staff member who performs tasks in the European Union institutions. In addition to the practical problems, the proposer had to propose amendments in order to take account of the Constitutional Court decision of 7.7.2005 on the possibility of discharge of the heads of the authorities in the composition of the ministries and the secretary-general of the ministries, which are equivalent to other officials in key positions. The Constitutional Court has found that such an intervention in existing mandates has been allowed, but the discharge must be limited to a time limit without false grounds. This proposal also corrects the law accordingly. The operation of public administration is financed by public funds and therefore the management of money must be particularly careful and economical. The public administration must treat existing resources as effectively as possible. Instead of hiring new workers, it may, by means of reallocation instruments, ensure the quality of the performance of public tasks and powers. In the New Slovenia Group, we will support the proposed law.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u13	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Ambassador Franz Kangler, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u14	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! In the Slovenian People's Party, we welcome measures that go towards a more friendly and efficient public administration, which will act as a friendly service for citizens and businesses. We are therefore pleased that the Minister or Government has prepared a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on civil servants with a second reading in such content. The Internal Policy Committee had a multi-annual debate on a proposal for a law that approximates the position of employees in the public administration of employees in the private sector, in particular with regard to the termination of the employment contract. It facilitates the identification of responsibilities for failing to achieve the expected work results and for breach of work obligations, while maintaining all those security guards for employees covered by labour law. It introduces new instruments to reduce the number of employees in the administration. The proposed novel provides greater flexibility in employment, in particular with the possibility of employees for a certain period of time in cases where a temporary increase in the number of tasks is expected, slightly easier to move. It brings about the unification of the evaluation and promotion system by having a one-year assessment for each employee and this is the basis for the promotion of wages and titles. The new law implements the Constitutional Court's decision to order the Constitutional Court to set a time limit within which the Director can be replaced or dismissed without any ground of guilt. As I have already announced in the introduction, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group we fully support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Servants.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u15	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the position of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. Ambassador Bostian Zagorac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Your Honors are here! It is high time something changed in public administration. The fact is that the public administration was a weak member of this country or, most importantly, I will say, an irregular part of this country. Finally, it is our belief that the Slovenian National Party, which is required in public administration, such as today, should also instill a certain level of responsibility. It is the responsibility that public servants must have in the management of their work. Finally, it must be said that public servants are judges, prosecutors and inspectors, and all of us here have agreed that the work in the field of justice is bad, and that is what the European Union reminds us. In the Slovenian National Party, we have proposed a number of solutions to improve the situation of the judiciary in the Republic of Slovenia. The permanent mandate is still the one that causes, I will say, judicial backlogs, which are the most pressing problem, and if you want public administrations, because judges are part of the public administration. It is certainly necessary in the public administration to increase productivity and reduce red tape, which has been a thorn in our citizens, the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and the citizens so far. In the Slovenian National Party, we will not oppose the draft law, but we will certainly continue our debate on the amendments and whether we vote in favour or against the law depends in particular on how much obedience this national assembly will have to the amendments tabled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u17	Thank you. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate and decision on the articles and amendments tabled, which I will lead on the basis of a review of the amendments of 24.11 this year. I am putting to the debate Article 45 and the amendment of the Group of Members of the Liberal Democracy and the Group of Members of the Social Democrats. Who wants a word? Member of the Run, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u18	Thank you very much. For us in social democracy, the amendments tabled are one of the most important questions of the acceptability of the proposed law. They are referring to a question on which the Constitutional Court has once given the right counsel of the constitutional dispute to point out that it is impossible to allow an unlimited time for the government to resolve the most responsible officials, civil servants, just because they do not respond to the belief or expectation or political propriety, as the Minister imagines and imagines, or anyone else most responsible in the government. The Constitutional Court said that a permanent interruption of such an option or the enforcement of such an option could not be enforced because it would be unconstitutional. The government is now solving this in another way. Of course, from five years in principle first to one year, but additionally to one year, not under the appointment of a government, but for one year from the appointment of such a high official in the state administration, which means, among other things, the Minister has made a poor decision and has poorly chosen a man himself, and therefore has one year to have this man on trial time, to identify or work as the Minister wishes or does, and in all of this year, he can uncriminally resolve such an individual from this most responsible position. In addition, he is given the right to be re-elected when the government is re-designed, but I think that it is possible to understand not only when the government is re-designed, but also when the minister is re-elected, in case there is a change, but once again one year can be re-evaluated or replaced by such an official. We believe that this is unacceptable, and that the solutions proposed are a broad understanding of the constitutional decision by the government, but they mean the same as they did before, to subordinate themselves to the most responsible employees in the administration and through the system of public administration, which, as we have assessed in the Social Democrats, will place a public servant in the most precarious position from the superior, and therefore put him in the entire hierarchy, not in the professional, but rather in the political dependence. This is what the State Administration already feels today, and in this direction two amendments are proposed, the first Liberal Democracy to propose that the deadline is not one year, but six months, which is absolutely closer to us. And the other, ours, the same as the Liberal Democrats, that at least another additional option that was invented in the government team was constructed, that is to say, the right of a one-year, non-criminal resignation from the date of appointment to at least eliminate this one, which is explicitly our amendment. I expect that there will be a little more understanding and a little more willingness to listen to these concerns, either given or provided by the government and the ruling coalition, and that they will not, in such an obvious way, want to demonstrate how much more important the political obedience is than the independent, independent and highly professional administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u19	Thank you. Dr. Gantar has been reported for discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, my colleague. A respected minister and coworkers. Of course, in the next speech, I have already pointed out the provision of this article, and I have also announced an amendment which, of course, I propose here, also to others, to support it or our amendment, which is possible, which enforces this six-month option of exchange or, of course, under regular circumstances, can also be the amendment of the United List, but I think that our amendment is still slightly more consistent with a principle, but also the other is of course a good one. This article, such as the one we are amending, actually applies, introduces something that we would call a trial period. In fact, an official may replace a senior official, all of those listed here shall be said within one year of the appointment of a senior official of the non-officer. That means he can change them every three months if he wants to, or more often, or up to one year. And that seems very perverse to me, and I apologize for this expression, and cynically I would say, the play of the Constitutional Court ruling, which said that a newly elected official has a mandate to replace without the reasons of a high official if he finds that he cannot work with it and wonders why he cannot work with it. It's just, of course, some practice around the world, maybe even more radical, somewhere not. But that's dignified, and that's acceptable. It is also acceptable because we believe, however, that public administration, the state administration, must be professional and neutral in this webrian sense, I believe that you know what the Minister is thinking. What's in here now? If we agree to what you put in here, that means two. Firstly, we do not trust the relatively rigorous procedure that you, as a bill-maker at the time, have introduced and very much agreed with it and we have supported you in the appointment of these officials. An official in high office today can't be anyone who remembers, but he has to go through some kind of procedure. As a result of this procedure, the government has called for competitions, etc., but the possibility of making a mistake is smaller. It is, but it's smaller. And a second time. It's bad for public administration. It's also bad for a minister who has such officers. Officials who are known to be able to replace them at any time, in this year and then again. The problem is simply what I told you back then, and I have to do it again. It's simply a problem, it's a problem for the minister to face the wrong information that officials will inform him, not what is true and what is not true, but that they will tell him what officials think the minister would like to hear. He'll be wrong twice. I've met officials like that. All of us in public administration have also met officials whom we have found telling us what they think we would like to hear. But we might want to hear the truth, which is cruel and which is not what he thinks we would hear. You'll make an information noise in public administration. Maybe not with everyone, but with a large number. And so I recommend that you do not set up suitable officials who will attach to you because you can replace them. Set up officials who have expertise who know and who are sometimes willing to say no or say something else to the minister. Secure this public administration against this unauthorized political tradition [[?]] Who's bad and who's showing up today. Read yesterday's annex in Del. A very objective assessment by a very good expert who points out that, on the one hand, the public administration is already passiveising, that some withdraw, that there are people who do not have the skills and skills to perform, and even in such a short time cannot obtain them, in order to do relatively demanding business, particularly those that relate to the European Union. This is a serious problem that you ministers will be paying when we ask you: "It is good, but what is your realisation of cohesion and other resources? It is good, however, what your participation is and how you were able to respond to this or that directive, etc. " That's why I'm warning you again, and, I'm not going to tell you, I'm convincing and proving that it's necessary to have high officials who can say no to the minister and who aren't afraid of being replaced every few days, so to speak. And I would like you to support this amendment, I would like you to do everything possible to make this law, which has a kind of good solution, a kind of solid solution, acceptable, and that it will be useful for the public administration in Slovenia and for the development of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u21	Thank you. Member Zvonko Černač has been reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u22	Dear colleagues and colleagues. I will not support any of the amendments to Article 45, and I regret that, unless these two amendments are supported by the opposition's colleagues, in particular from the SLS and SD, they will not fully support this law, because I think it is an amendment that is not necessary or that would not be worth discussing for a long and broad period of time. Unless the amendment of this law, which took place in this National Assembly on 24 February, has been discussed for almost 7 hours on this subject. At that time, you will recall a very heated debate and we have heard very profound thoughts about what a change of law brings to public administration. You probably haven't forgotten the words about the "tsunami" that Minister Virant will give him in public administration. No "tsunami" ever happened. The people with whom I meet tell me that even a small "sit" or at least a little karst storm in public administration was not necessarily necessary during this period, but that you will probably agree with everyone sitting in this room in the sense that we are also adopting and modifying laws, making public administration services more accessible to citizens. This is what I think that together, when we debate these solutions, we forget and ask ourselves honestly whether we are all actually satisfied with what the public administration is offering us right now, probably not, probably there is no one in this room who would be 100% satisfied. Of course, there are different experiences and there are many well-trained professionals who are doing their job well, but I think those who have taken some responsibility for this public administration must also have political responsibility, if you want, the possibility that they will drive this administration in such a way as to ensure professional decisions for all those to whom they are intended. For this reason, I think that the solutions to the marriage are good and that this period from one year to six months proposed by the LDS is not necessary. I also believe that there is no need for another amendment and that there is one very broad mistrust that I do not know what is behind it. One more time. You talked about February, not the tithes, the hundreds, some even the thousands of changes that will take place in the public administration, please, let us now look back at this period and sober up. It was just what should have happened before, just that and nothing else. Every official, every minister, every senior government official is very well aware of his responsibilities and is very well aware that if he exceeds this rubicon of these powers he has, he will lose credibility very quickly, not only himself, but even the government as a whole. For this reason, I believe that these two amendments are unnecessary, and I regret that if the LDS and SD Group of Members, because of these changes that are not essential, if they are not adopted, do not support this law or changes to the law that brings good solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u23	Thank you. Member Christian Janc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u24	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, President, colleagues, colleagues! I do not see the particular need for these amendments proposed by my colleagues in the LDS simply because this law is an urgent need for change in this area, I speak from my own experience, the practice of life when we meet at local level with similar issues and I think that these human resources, which are now extremely important in every environment both in the economy and in public administration, are very different. And some pretenses are necessary sometimes, if you want, someone who runs a trial whether it be a minister or a mayor or someone else is probably in charge of bringing together the best people who trust them, who will be compatible with them, who will achieve the best success with them, but success is the one who, after all, is either an election or something else, the criterion of the next term. The beautiful municipal administration is a very important story that, in my opinion, the accessibility of people, to users, to all this goal that this government has also set itself for this public sector, this public administration, which is not yet sufficiently exploited, much less flexible, is not sufficiently focused on what they are set up for, that is, our users, citizens and those steps that this law is preparing, are in a positive direction, are in the direction that we like to say something that is not applicable in this sector, what is not in administration, what we are not satisfied with as users when we come in line and this tool, these instruments that point to and give this opportunity are certainly, in my deep conviction, the right step. Perhaps there is more to be expected, but I believe that coordination with the unions has always been very difficult and difficult in the public sector and it is still and still will be, it is definitely that this union in the public sector has sometimes allowed much to negotiate, but only example, I don't know, preschool education, what all possible conditions, the additions to work have, that even the educator has a supplement to work with the children say a lot, and let's leave this. In short, I think that this is a well-prepared story and ministry, I would like to say, which I would like to commend, that it will come one step further, that it will have the opportunity to make this immediate, narrow team optimally one with which the administration can also be more efficient and successful. And also finding out the ability, the promotion, the rewards, all this story, which is also important in the public sector and you can draw on it much more than anything else, is very important. But that everyone wants a more friendly administration, efficiency, ability, and I think there is none among us who doesn't want it, we all want it, but the steps to do so are usually difficult, patient and inviolability of a public servant is not good, it is not good, and that when someone comes into the public sector, it is not right. And here some things need to be given time, the chances that some things can change. A certain time, a new story, which I think is good and useful here, in the public sector, however, in some way, seems very important to me that the whole thing is getting a little close to the private sector. There, the story is quite, quite different and it would be right to make this only partially balanced, because the story of employees in the public sector and in the private sector is still very, very large and this is not good for society, it is not good for the system. And those in the private sector who are daily at large have to date been almost untouchable in the public sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u25	Thank you. Dr. Gantar has been reported for discussion.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u26	I would like to say a few more words about relations and developments in public administration. Of course, those who feel that the human tsunami, what a beautiful expression, did not even happen to any milder saps, or perhaps that some small writing happened, have something to say about Freud's reality verlust, a loss of reality, a feeling of reality. This has happened without need and for no reason has the whole number been replaced, the whole number of people, the lists are slowly collected and are impressive and terrible and I would like to say in particular that, of course, some have been replaced and only after they were replaced have they found that they were LDS sympathizers or some other party in the then coalition without knowing it. They didn't take the news until after it happened to them. And once again, I point out that this is not good and that such a practice of course leads to the impoverishment of public administration and, above all, to the impoverishment of the powers and abilities of this government. Most public servants receive, and only rarely are among them who do not accept, a legitimate, legitimately elected government, such as working to the best of their ability at lower and higher levels. And that is why, of course, what has happened, after all, even in the world of the last days, it is something that will harm Slovenia, and once again I really urge you to turn the board and yet accept a decent regime also for senior officials. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u27	Thank you. Member Maja Shirtz has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u28	Thank you. Those who are in the public sector or in the private sector, as my predecessor from the SLS species said, are always at large and afraid that they would not lose their jobs, especially women, sometimes also sign some, give some signature to such an undertaking that they will not leave their jobs and have no children. I want to say something different with this case than to focus on such problems, which, of course, are also very serious in the private sector. You do a lot of things to keep your job. For unquestionably, loyalty is easy when you are afraid that you will be freed, and put it before professionalism. It is interesting if I concentrate on the message given on the days of the Slovenian administration in Portorož, when a few words have been addressed to the question or to the policy or to the expert, or what balance can be found in this case when there have been quite a few speeches on this issue. It was an important message, and no one among the experts on this issue denied that each policy would seek out suitable and loyal people and experts. There's no way to avoid that. But, however, although it can be understood from the perspective of each government in particular, this is difficult to understand from the point of view of society over a long period of time, we think it is undoubtedly harmful, insofar as politics is given priority over professionalism. For the overcharge of the top of the state administration promotes politics, non-professionalism and sometimes customerism. In this sense, this amendment follows some reflection, which was also given in Portorož, that it is with us that political staffing has penetrated significantly wider and deeper than many in other democracies, even though political recruitment, as I said before, cannot be prevented in the public and public administration. But the amendment of the Law on Public Servants has previously evaluated the meaning of the official council, we have already talked about it, and the whole process of selecting officials and has brought us back to the enchanted circle of political appointments, such as before the adoption of the Law on Public Servants. In the Liberal Democracy Club of Parliament, we supported, supported and reiterated the position that officials cannot and must not be replaced without false reasons, I stress, throughout their term of office. For in such a case, it is no longer an urgent functional adjustment of senior administrative staff with a new government or with a minister, but a permanent systemic action that completely eliminates the element of stability, security and, of course, the professionalism of officials. If the official is afraid, of course, he will do a number of things and suppress his professional skills, for he will not have to prove his guilt. In short, this amendment or amendment of opposition colleagues is correcting what we believe can improve Article 45 as drafted by the government.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u29	Thank you. Member Willie Rezman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u30	Thank you. When I listened to the debate, it was not clear whether we were all talking about the same article and the same text. It seems to me that not everyone has read this article or read it all the way. Not only is it possible to replace and reduce it from one year to six months, but it is only at the end of what is stated in Article 2, paragraph 2, that a discharge is possible even within one year of the appointment of an official, not just an official to the position. That's the point. And that's what I had in mind when I was talking about this, the fashion that keeps changing. Here we will be able to change shirts with fashion trends, read officials, just as someone will think, as will the fashion trend. However, bringing fashion trends into politics is certainly not the only thing that is possible and best.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u31	Thank you. Member Rudolf Petan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u32	Thank you for your word. I think this amendment is totally unnecessary, maybe I would even say it's harmful, and I'll try to prove it briefly. Our common desire is what we said earlier when we presented the views of the groups of Members in order to have as professionally as possible, as friendly an administration as possible, and also as one that adheres to the letters of the law, but not bureaucraticly, but sometimes also life. That's why I said this amendment was totally unnecessary. I also called because my predecessors were also talking about some human resources tsunami in this article. Today I'm going to show you about the thirty-fiveth time this map, which is from 13.9.2001, is a good nine months after setting up the new government, and there are thousands of names that you've changed. Now, whether it's a tsunami or a piss or a karst storm, I don't know, you think what you want. But if you're talking about tsunami, then it's the first tsunami we can deal with. If it were time, I could read the names, but I wouldn't, and I'd probably break the rules of procedure and be corrected by the chairman. Besides, there's something else I'd like to answer. In fact, I don't know why it was necessary to mention that women have ever signed a decision not to have children, but if it had already been mentioned, I would only ask, since when is this practice in Slovenia? For the last ten years. And who introduced her? What marriage? In the case of the former, before these changes, which have already been and you have claimed that these changes are bad. I'd say they're good, maybe they'll make it impossible for women to sign such conclusions so they don't have children. Whose government was it then? This amendment, which brings back something old again, as you said, means that we will once again have such maps as you call them, with tsunamis that women will have to sign conclusions again so that they will not have children if they want to get jobs. That is why I said that such an amendment is harmful, and that is why, not only because of it, we cannot support it, because in the public administration, there really has to be a writing, especially if we want a professional and friendly public administration, one that will know, as I said when I present my position, who is on which side of this official window. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u33	Thank you. Member Joseph Jerovšek has been declared to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u34	Thank you very much. I can't support these amendments myself, I'd say opposition parties. I must say that if it were true what Members of the parliamentary groups said that the government had made extremely many changes in the public administration, then they would no longer stand for this amendment to be enforced because, in fact, it has already been done, as you say. That's why I think you're causing hysteria, which, of course, is politically excused, is normal, but you're not honest about it. In fact, all the analysis shows that you have been working very thoroughly and very prominently through the Bajuk government, although Bajuk's government has changed relatively little, but whoever he was, whatever he had with Bajuk's government, you have cleaned up very thoroughly. Speaking with which he had previously warned his colleague Gantar about the loss of reality, I find it really interesting also on his part and would ask him whether this loss of reality occurred to him on his party's yesterday world, and there was some "tunami" as far as I heard, I think the situation was such that it was actually a loss of reality and that, on the basis of the lost reality today, some in the present national assembly are discussing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u35	Thank you. The debate by Pavel Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u36	Around this so-called loss of feeling for reality I would say that there is no need to be afraid for LDS, LDS has, would say its reality and will have it on yours, I would say regret will this reality of LDS will be very cruel for you, so there is no problem with the reality of LDS, you will and you will get to know it. But I would say this to what has been said in substance to the contribution of my esteemed colleague Jerovsk. Why have public and state officials been so heavily protected in and in other systems? Some countries still have significantly greater protection and ratings, etc. between public officials, Professor Virant will tell you this and present these types of ratings they have in all these countries, etc. This is one of the reasons, not only that this has evolved historically as a form of self-defence of officials against political volunteerism, this has evolved historically, from year to year, in the centuries of the creation of modern, first urban, then state administrations in various continents of Europe and America, a little differently than the mechanism with which officials defended themselves against overvoluntary politics and at the same time ensured that the state operated at the technical, bureaucratic level even in the face of major political fluctuations and risks. And that was a system that was repeatedly described. Today, this system is largely obsolete in the modern state and needs changes, and we all agree on it in one way or another. But if we want to increase flexibility, we need to reduce the potential for political intervention in the field. We have increased flexibility and increased political intervention, officials. The result will be a politically submissive public administration. Something else we'd like, and these are my last words on this amendment. I suggest you actually support him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u37	Thank you. Member Davorin Targeton has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u38	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, first of all, it's an observation from our LDS world. Indeed, the LDS world is being debated, many debates are very interesting, there is a heated debate, opinions are being broken, and then there are such news that some speculatively exploit it that I do not know what is wrong. Of course it's different with you. With you, this is more military, less debate, and everything is more monotonous and everything looks more uniform, easy. It's not really like that. And if this illustration were to overturn the matter of this law, and all the developments that are taking place by law, this is some kind of a misrepresentation. The state administration is special. There are reasons why there are special ratings. This has already been said by my colleague Gantar, due to the returbations that may occur with the replacement of political power. But it is in fact - many also use it, and I have already used it - because of hierarchical conditionality, because it has to work, even half military, because it is strictly hierarchical. It's in all systems. And if she's half military by now, you'll make her now at three-quarters military, of course in her own image. And a typical example of this is this amendment. Of course, with each election, this can also change, but the undeniable fact exists when the right-centre option wins, as it has won now, the rights of workers, unions and workers are shrinking and it is increasingly military. And that's what you're doing. For what it's worth, I doubt it, but I certainly think it would be wise to make one thought in favour of the expertise of this state administration and to support the amendments of the LDS and the Social Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u39	Thank you. Member Mitja Ljubeljšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u40	Thank you for your word. Honorable assembly, distinguished minister, distinguished representatives of the government! In opening, I would like to point out that I do not support the proposed amendment because I fully support the amended law, which, at least I expect, brings the expected work results and prevents bad work, infringements of regulations and labour obligations and allows for the selection of the most professional staff. I am absolutely in agreement with the second paragraph and the last sentence in this paragraph, which is totally the opposite of the proposed amendment. In view of the inability to cooperate between the Minister and the High Officer, the replacement must certainly be possible. I therefore support the proposal that the quoted sentence introduce a test period of some kind in this article. Notwithstanding the fact that the Minister has chosen the official himself, only practice shows whether the official actually achieves the expected results. No minister, I believe, will exchange a good co-worker or even a top-level expert for political reasons, as you repeatedly and repeatedly point out to the opposition's colleagues. If it changes it, it will certainly be for work reasons, given the poor work, the lack of the expected results, mistakes or negligence. The replacement or transfer of a high official to another post should not be a matter of extreme complexity of complex procedures, as this may be a major and very unnecessary problem in the functioning of ministries or their services. In order to ensure the good functioning of the government and the good functioning of the ministries, we must certainly give ministers the opportunity to put the right people in the right places. And here you are, respected colleagues and colleagues of the opposition, I simply do not understand. Why, whenever the laws in the individual articles apply to personnel, that is what happened yesterday, you see it with a negative attitude. You're always saying that, and today, there's a political background. You get the impression that you always put the mirror in front of you, in which you see your image. Are you afraid that the current government will do the same as you did when you were in power? Why you do not have a positive attitude towards the proposed changes at least sometimes, why you do not have the power to say that this change is good and will bring better results. There is no reason for public administration officials, as well as high officials, who are obviously ill-working or misbehavior, to protect them more than is the case for employees in the economy. I am convinced that the basis of democracy is also that all people in this country are resentful, that no one is untouchable and even less irreplaceable. Therefore, jobs in key official positions should be adequately occupied with qualified and quality staff. And the law should provide for a solution in the event that the expected results are not reached and the objectives set are not achieved. There must be an opportunity for jobs in key official positions to be properly occupied, with trained and quality staff. And this bill makes it possible. Here we have to ask, colleagues and colleagues, whether this High Council wants to achieve the best possible results for the public administration or whether we want to protect any incompetent or incompetent personnel or even non-working personnel. I expect that the amended draft law and thus Article 45 of this Act will be confirmed. This is the only way in which marriage will finally bring about the changes expected. To make the public administration organisational and business-friendly, rationally efficient, user-oriented, so as to be professionally and politically neutral. This is what the citizens expect. We expect that it will also be more flexible to remove a number of bureaucratic obstacles, which still send us from door to door, so that the procedures will eventually be less long-lasting and not extremely bureaucraticly complicated. Why am I stressing this in particular? Because, therefore, there is a need for capable and professional staff, because I am sure that there remain large reserves in the public administration that are worth taking advantage of. For the salaries of public servants alone, the budget for the following year is around 760 billion, that the total expenditure of the public administration is 3 000 200 billion, and if they reduce this expenditure by only 1%, that is 32 billion. Not to mention higher percentages. It is well known, both at the state and local levels, how we strive to make use of all the planned budget resources at all costs. There are large reserves in this country, there is a large system error, a system of public finances or a system, even if I apply to public administration, it is geared towards consumption, not to rationalisation. I know from my own experience and practice that it is possible, if will or coercion is involved, to continuously reduce costs. How do you think successful Slovenian companies remain in the fight against severe international competition? Development, innovation, business continuity processes and a system-wide cost observation approach. Of course, this is not without capable, innovative and effective personnel. And here's a little bit of success or failure. All you have to do is ask yourself and decide whether to succeed or fail, status quo or progress. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u41	Thank you. The text is by Ambassador Dara Lovtišar Bebler.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u42	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I agree with those who say that this amendment tabled by the LDS is harmful. Of course we're not hiding it. It is harmful for all those who have the intention of turning this public administration into a political and submissive public administration, as my colleague Gantar has already said. I would add to this, not only the politically submissive public administration, but also the god-fearing public administration. This second will soon be achieved, we read in newspapers that some 200 theologians have been employed in various ministries recently or that they intend to work. I also asked the right question in a written question to Mr Minister, and he did not answer it, but the very logical question that I am asking myself is whether there are actually so many specific jobs in this public administration that should be occupied by the theologians. I expect you to answer today, given that you have not answered me in your written reply. By definition, all those who have so far held high-level jobs in public administration are suspicious, except those previously known to be Trojan horses placed in public administration by the previous opposition. And that is also well seen now when we read, whom and where the government appoints and sends, both in diplomacy and in other areas, who are the ones that we already knew were Trojan horses, and are now specifically rewarded for obtaining high jobs. It is also interesting that, for example, Mr Emil Erjavec, who was formerly a negotiator of the accession group to the European Union, recently wrote in his article in Del: "Those whom the new political authority, from the moon, has brought to the heart of the state administration and has put ahead of difficult problems, but who do not know people or areas, do not know what is important or not, what is actually to be coordinated and managed." I think that the opinions that come from the kinds of people who know the situation in public administration are something that we have to worry about. And it is not true that there was no human resources tsunami; but if it has not yet come to full effect and full recognition, it is this law that will try to secure these human resources tsunamis. I hear that one of the backgrounds in these amendments to the Law on Public Administration is that it intends to thoroughly rewind the current authority, say, Sovo - you can ask yourself why - and therefore also proposes mandatory retirement of people when they supplement certain age and other retirement conditions. Well, I'm just curious, we'll see and we'll see, I'm sorry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u43	Thank you. The word has magic. Spending.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u44	Mr. Minister with fellow Members, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The amendments that have been tabled are, of course, critical of the coalition. But when I listen to the debates, it seems to me that Mr. Minister did not get along well with his coalition partners in the National Assembly. Because of the fact that the words about compatibility were heard from their mouths, the words about the trial age were heard from them, even though you, Mr Minister, said that this was our expression, political compatibility. Probably this trial age thing, too. You think it's ours. But what I would like to say about these debates and concerns that I hear when I'm excited about the law by the coalition is that I'm not surprised when in pre-election confrontations people who are just going into politics think that their first task is to clean up the municipal administrations of those who have worked so far and to set up their people. This is a basic belief that the first task at local level is to replace everything. Now, how did something get replaced and replaced in the state administration? That's a different story. I have asked the Minister a question from the Member States, which was related to the large number of directors of the Directorates and I believe that one of the changes is due to this question. But I also asked in that Member's question whether there are any interventions that we are witnessing, when the deadline in which a political official has the opportunity to replace employees, when, say, it is necessary to repeat the calls when the applicants meet the conditions and still do not appoint them, whether this brings such an attitude among the employees of the state administration, which promises to achieve the results that you, Mr Minister, have spoken about when you explained the objectives of this law. The flexibility that you are talking about being among the goals is unacceptable or otherwise understood in other branches, not only in public administration, but also in the economy. But it's always a question of which side someone's on and what kind of thing they're on. It seems completely unacceptable to me that we are now changing the law in a way that we can legislate what some imagine that we should do with each other's authority, replace those we don't like, and I will say that I will not talk about political compatibility now. To prove that one’s work is not doing well enough by its standards, but it is possible that, as anonymous letters are, there are indications of how they are being replaced by leadership, we also know about public institutions. In fact, the amendments that are available here are just an attempt to correct what this law does not accept, which is accompanied by many, for the user of official services, but the question is whether we can talk about whether the administration will be really friendly, that it will be really effective if we listen to what percentage of employees in the hospital if we know and listen to information about what the fluctuation is. I would also like some data on new jobs not to mention that we are opening up opportunities to increase the number of fixed-term jobs, although this is not compatible with the Labour Relations Act, where employment is limited for a certain period of time in the economy. By supporting this amendment, however, support is to try to improve what this amendment brings.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u45	Thank you. Member Milan Friday has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u46	Thank you, Vice President. Of course, I, too, join those who support the two amendments, especially because the coalition MPs have forgotten when you criticize the opposition, how it is constantly harassing and how it is constantly breaking up in our view of these laws. You have overlooked that my predecessors have even commended you in some parts, so colleague Gantar said that the law in most articles is good, that we get our support and we focus on just one article, that is, on the 45th article, which is really not good, and that is why we need to look the truth in the eye and find that this is not a general criticism of everything, but it is an attempt to correct what is not good. I don't know if I'm talking about what the difference between the opposition and the coalition is, if it isn't, that all the opposition Members are talking to themselves, so we're talking as we think, we're talking as we're sure, we're talking if you want from the heart, because we think it's the same thing when I listen to most coalition members and you're just reading, so, I have a feeling that you're reading from a dictatorship because you've got a dictatorship, you've got a command, you do it for every force, so that this law will get a lot of light. Well, there's a difference between you and us, and I guess you won't mind. Now, if I go to the content of the amendment itself. So the amendment allows what we should see for ourselves cannot forever be the right and the ability and the power of someone supposed to have with his people as he does. One morning he'll come in with a bad mood, find out what I know that one of his officers didn't do to him what he was supposed to do, and only because of that mistake will he do so because the law allows him to do so. So what do we have today in state administration and municipal administrations? A bunch of people who didn't go through the school of administration who didn't know all the procedures that didn't meet all the departments that didn't realize all the tasks that didn't actually do what we, who are a little older, had to do in our lives. None of us are formal at the time that he finished his studies, with a great deal of knowledge, but, of course, he had to go through this knowledge with his work. What's going on today? As these continuitys in the administration are running out, these continuitys, which she also knew, were not only politically active or politically stated, so young people continue, formally educated, but under-skilled people, and this leads to the fact that the administration is increasingly weak and Minister Virant wants or refuses to agree that today the government is not as strong as it was, even at the time he was Secretary of State, so this is a fact. He may laugh, but this is my view of the state of the government, and therefore take the interest of trying to prove to you that for a time it is possible to find out with people how they work, what they know, to give him by then those 6 months of time available, to say good-bye in those 6 months, when a person has sat down when a person knows when a person in detail does this and feels an opportunity to prove it. It will not come to the point that, then, some tasks will be ordered by the institutes outside, i.e. administrations, that they will be given 10 million and 10 million values, Mr Virant himself said that the administration should do most of these tasks on its own, but obviously cannot and cannot, because there are too few of them who can carry out these tasks and the consequences are long-term, and this is not just a problem for you who are leading this current coalition, this is the problem of Slovenia, of course, which is intended to be a well-organised state, a rational state, that is, a country that will also have power and knowledge through the state administration, which will lead to progress. I'm afraid that thinking in the way it is will lead to this loyalty of officials being a necessity, so officials will have to be loyal to this extent if they want to meet all those who will serve them in the workplace and what happens in the case that I myself took into account in the Directive, that an official from the Maribor municipal administration wrote letters, letters in support of Mr Virant as a lawyer, just because she obviously wanted some sort of letter, I don't know where, but she wanted to go somewhere. And that's what's going to happen, and we're going to have one poll once, and one clerk is going to get the job of writing letters and they're going to circle the letters of officials because they're going to want to bow to these big bosses, and that's why I don't think it's a good thing, and that's why cases like this, and that's the kind of pattern that we read in this case that we read in the Direct newspaper, so in the Direct newspaper, it can become a rule and that's something to be afraid of. This is what we want to make easier for you and thus achieve that this will not become a rule and you have a chance to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u47	Thank you. Minister Virant will also be included in the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u48	Thank you very much. A few things have come up, and I will try to answer some of the things that have been mentioned in the debate. First of all, I still think, despite the decision of the Constitutional Court, which we realize through this law, that the highest directors in the administration should be replaceable at any time. Nothing. The Minister and Directors or Mayors and the Director of the Municipal Administration shall form a management team in the Ministry. And this management team has to work teamly and if there are misunderstandings in this team for any reason, whether it is a different view of the work or whether it is a different view of the concept, whether it is a different view of dynamics, of the speed of work or whatever else it is, it can cause severe dysfunctions and damage to the work of the Ministry, the municipal administration or any other administration, as would, of course, also affect the efficiency and functioning of the company, i.e. the organisation of the private sector. There's no difference here. It has been obvious that with this option of substitution or more than this possibility of substitution, we create so-called yes mane, that is to say chimbo-heads, people who only bring to the Minister information that the Minister likes. No, that's Mr. Gantar's answer. With this possibility of replacement, we are creating the opportunity for a minister to replace such people, because, of course, a smart minister will want to have associates around him who bring him the right information and will change those who only know how to kimati and who bring him the information he would like to hear. I'm sure I appreciate the very ones who tell me who tell me when it's necessary, and the Minister here you did the wrong thing, here you broke it, here you think again and do something different. Next thing. The Minister is dependent on his associates. Our reputation also depends on how they do their work. And that's why a minister who removes a good coworker will replace a good quality, one who does good, shoot himself in the knee. What's the logic here? Then it's about the spine, so whether it means removing the head and breaking the spine. It's just that with your spine, you have it or you don't have it, no matter what kind of system it is. If it were true that the system in the possibility of replacing the director is created by the definition of chimoglavka, yes mane and people without spine, then, in fact, you have ruled for 12 years in such a system, because all the directors, heads of the body in the composition, government services, state secretaries doing a similar business as today's directors of the Directorates, were instantaneous. When I was Secretary of State, Minister Bohinc could replace me every second, and yet I told him what I thought, always very directly. Again, I must point out that I am disturbed, as I think already, by my colleague Petan, that marriage solutions that are good for a good purpose are always attributed to the worst possible intentions. In particular, I can personally say that you attribute to me all the purposes of this law, except what I actually have and this is only intended to enforce, to introduce as many management instruments as possible that will enable the effective and professional functioning of public administration. Now, if I understand Dr Gantar's colleague correctly, you are afraid that with this possibility of the Director being replaced, the Director has been relieved one year after he was appointed to create the possibility that in fact the government of the same person changes throughout the mandate, if I understand correctly. If you're afraid of that, like someone who's been dissolved by the government in the first year of office, then replaced it and then replaced it again in a year or so, if you're afraid of this abuse, we'd support any solution that might prevent this abuse. Here we are ready to find a formulation that would prevent such behaviour. But it never occurred to us, so we didn't think about it. Now, for once, we're going to have to face the data, your data, our data on the effects of the so-called tsunami, on the state administration's replacements. Look, on the basis of the law that was so criticized and challenged before the Constitutional Court, two substitutions were made for negative reasons. Exactly two. Above all, I must point out that in no case has what happened in 2000 after the replacement of the Bajuk government with Drnovškov, when many people were severely degraded when their titles were taken away, when they received substantially lower salaries, significantly lower jobs. If you want, I can continue to serve with names, and very quality and successful personnel were among them. There was no such thing in this term. No one was wrong. As far as 200 theologians are concerned, I would like to comment in such a way that, Mrs. Beblereva, you read too many stories in newspapers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u49	Thank you, Minister. Member Slavko Gaber has entered the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary-General! We are again dealing with the issue of the future of Slovenia, which the government is talking about in some very specific way. Instead of giving serious thought to what will benefit the country in the long run, we are witnessing that the government in this area does not find the ability to limit itself. The quality of government is primarily measured by this, especially when the power is sufficient. The proposal that we have before us is a typical example of an organised possibility of breaking through state administration. If Comrade Virant proposed him when his mind was in opposition and he was working in the government, a man might even listen to him. However, since he was proposing different laws and regulations at the time, he suddenly realized that there was a need for more or less permanent exchange of officials, not officials, and that a person could hardly believe him. I do not understand why it was then necessary to propose a reduction in the number of State secretaries, because if someone believed that ministers so badly needed people who could be directly managed and replaced, then I would suggest to the current coalition that he said that he needed so many and so politically compatible people and that he should increase the number of those who were officials. If that is not the case, then at least one of the basic rules of the functioning of the Office should apply - it is that they can be autonomous. It is that they have the opportunity, not at the cost of being replaced tomorrow, to say to the Minister, Mr Minister, I do not agree with you, what you are proposing is an offence, and they must also be able to persist. Minister, what you're telling us about not making kimows in the government is a fairy tale, but it's more for children. But it is not wise for adults to explain to them that you should be able to stop it if you disagree with it, or you explain to him that he should just tell you if he disagrees with you. Please! It's a worse kind of fairy tale. It's built into your principle. Either you were telling us the truth when you said you were expecting people to tell you that they disagree with you and that they disagree with your colleagues in the government, or I don't know what you're talking about. The law is written in such a way that it discourages disagreements, since then these people are no longer compatible with the minister. Let's even assume that you're perfect and that you don't lose your nerve when an official weighs down on you and because you're participating that you're too hard on him, so you won't take him away. But they're not all perfect. I know a bunch of ministers who had trouble insisting on this, with a certain solution, I know ministers, I know a very good one, who had to admit later that the official was right and that it was very good that it could not be replaced. This is exactly what you're proposing here in this regulation, and I suggest you think about if you really are talking about Slovenia, but I have an increasingly bad feeling about it rhetorically already, but actually with all the measures it looks like it's about how to break down systems and reframe them in the image of SDS. So if you're talking about Slovenia then try to limit yourself, get out of it, do not work a system of fear of permanent changes in the state administration in the most important places, these people will necessarily be worse, but who will go to such a place where you will be able to replace it every 15 minutes at will, as it is already necessary to ask whether it is entirely reasonable, if it goes to such a job, really quality people will find it difficult to decide something like this even on the salaries of the state administration, because the state administration is not an industry, in industry, we all see, wages are significantly different in very key jobs. In here you have people who will be interchangeable, who are also managed by some with hundreds of billions of dollars. These are very responsible functions and that someone is in such a place and that we will be able to replace it as easily as we can, it will not work well, it will be done by stoners no matter what you say will happen. The flexibility of the state administration, where I support your ideas, namely this general idea that it must be flexible, the management of these transactions that are in the state administration, but perhaps we could also achieve more if we came up with additional proposals on what you will do to make certain transactions that are not necessary for the state administration to make them expedited, we do not take outside this circle, those measures that go in this direction are very close to me and I think we have a lot of space here. Let's do something in this area. If you need politically loyal people to tell, make officials out of them, but do not work from officials of the official in this sense of the word. And I don't know why we should lie about it.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u51	It's a replica. Minister, I ask you, will you do it now or at the end? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Well, look again, you come from the wrong assumption that this option of interchangeability is built in to establish the political loyalty of the staff. How do you know that's the purpose of this marriage? Why don't we attribute to the law of the purpose that we really have to enforce the possibility of substitution, just like the exercise in the private sector, in the economy. Since there is certainly no president of the board, no director has a dilemma about the need for co-workers who are professional, who give him quality information, even though they know that they are interchangeable every moment. So again, the main problem is this perception. You're looking at the thing with an extremely negative angle, czech, everything that's proposed is meant for evil purposes, but we're looking at it differently. And I'd like to ask you one more question. If we now introduce or cause the government to be full of kimows to cause some kind of terror, as you said, then I ask you, how could you sleep for 12 years when a system that allowed much greater interchangeability was in place? How could that not have caused you, I would have said, health problems, but when you've suffered for 12 years what you've been rejecting so vehemently, I don't understand? Look, people in these places do the same job. What the Secretary of State used to be is now the director of the Directorate, we all know that. What was the Director of the Authority in the composition is also now the Director of the Authority in the composition. Previously, all the officials, which meant no conditions, no education, no work experience, no calls, no procedures, no competent standards and no possibility of appointment and replacement at any time. The new system provides conditions, standards, testing, invitation to tender and testing through the official council. It is also important to know that you who have run the ministry know that everything is not only in the competent standards that are identified in the phase when you choose an associate, but you also need to see how a member in practice works. And if employees in practice cannot function well for any reason, then it is also for the good of the Ministry and for the good of Slovenia in the final stage that such a person withdraws and puts himself in such a place who will work better and better.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u53	Thank you. The text is by Ambassador Dara Lovtišar Bebler.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u54	I applied to the replica before, and apparently, Mr. Vice President, you haven't noticed me. Actually, I don't read a lot of newspapers. And what I was talking about, I read about in Del. If you are here to evaluate the work of the newspaper as a gossip newspaper, then this is your problem and probably the problem of the founders of the work. But of course I don't believe gossip to ministers. That's why I expected you to answer me because I asked you nicely for an answer. So I'm asking if what I've read in Del holds true that you're going to hire 200 theologians after the ministries now, and I'm asking if there's really so much of this specificity in the individual ministries that they're going to require exactly that kind of profile in this number. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u55	Thank you. I ask future debaters to stick to the issues, i.e. the debate on Article 45. I call on Ambassador Dusan Kumra to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u56	Thank you for your word. I support this amendment, especially for a simple reason, because I would like to deny the minister who said that in this year in this area, since we adopted the law at the beginning of the year, nothing has happened and that it is only two cases. In fact, I firmly deny this because there are many more of these cases, about this political compatibility. Consider what happened at the Ministry of Defence, what happened at the Ministry of the Interior. And since you're comparing things to the economy, I also have a little bit of doubt about credibility or good intentions that you're also publicly expressing, so I'm going to serve with some numbers that happened this year after the material salary when you say that you have no influence on the economy and you don't employ in the economy. Now compare this with the economy: for no reason is the number, which means that the members of the administration whose replacements were influenced by the government or the current authority were suspended or replaced, is 1,900 million or 1.9 billion. Since he's been doing a lot of surgery with some comparisons lately, that means 3 million 216 thousand free snacks. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u57	Ambassador Kumer, please stick to the content of the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u58	Yeah, I'm explaining this amendment, why I don't believe it, and I doubt good intentions, because things are going differently in practice. Or means 11,800 average wages in the Republic of Slovenia. And at the end of the day, it's about not being framed. Since I regularly eat lunch every day in the parliamentary cafeteria, I happened to run into the fact that, at lunchtime, there is also a culture at this table. That's what it looks like. And not then say here that things aren't going the wrong way and past the rules of the game that you're talking about, that you're going to stick to them or that you're going to stick to them in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u59	Member Mitja Slavinec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u60	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary! I myself will support the proposed amendment, as it greatly contributes to achieving the objectives that you have set yourself and that you claim to have been put forward for good. At the same time, this amendment will also ensure a more correct and correct relationship between that balance and the right measure, on the one hand the protection of officials and on the other hand the responsibility of those where I agree that they must have it and should be encouraged to the greatest extent possible to ensure that the public administration works as effectively as possible. You've also compared the economy with the administration. The very functioning of these two institutions is very different. The economy of work, the objective of the economy is profit, money and as much money as possible, so that this economy can develop better so that they can work as long as possible in the economy. I see things differently in public administration. It's about running and managing the country. The aim of this governance and administration of the state to apply for as long as possible is, of course, the electorate who supports the matter and, therefore, by definition, the public administration is essential, significantly more political than the economy or, as we wish, at least, that the economy would not be political. I also believe that you will act on your own as you said about officials, but it takes a very long time to stop judging others by yourself, as I am often making these mistakes myself. If you will do so, then there is no guarantee that others will follow your example and that the whole government and all those who can recruit any official, anyone in the administration, will do so. That is why we wanted to set up a certain security guard with the amendment even before, sooner or later, who would not exceed that limit of indiscretion and, as has been said many times today, decided also politically and not, say, expose and advance those who are professional, but those with whom it is easier to come out. One year as a kind of trial age seems too much to me. At times, the internship was a year and the trial years, if we go back to the economy, are usually longer than three months, and, finally, the government has at the beginning 100 days of peace, which is not a year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u61	Thank you. Member Gaber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u62	Mr Vice-President, allow me to say a few words about this glorious comparison, which appears at this addition, with the economy. In view of the fact that this comparison occurs with the economy, you will have to let us, for the Minister is defending his solution, if, as in the economy, we have to take the case from the economy as examples that prove that he does not show that he simply blindly trusts what you are talking about. I'm so sorry when you ask me why I can't believe that all the good intentions in the back are just good, there's more than enough evidence in both the government and the companies. You yourself say you want such an arrangement. I know about the case of a person in your ministry who is at your ministry, who I know better than you, which I suppose you welcomed when she was demolished at another ministry, and now she's with you. Not to talk about names, you'll understand, because I know that this can result in people being persecuted to threaten them. They're even threatened by your colleagues if they're communicating with someone from outside the current opposition. These are actual situations. They are forbidden to speak, to talk, to answer the question, which is a normal question, whether they hold this and what is claimed, etc. This is a situation that you have within the state administration and it does not make sense to refer to this topic. People don't hope to tell you what they think today, you can see that they tell you, but they tell others that they don't hope to talk, we probably make up what they're saying, and you find that they're more likely to tell you now. The more you can change them, the more they'll trust you, the more brilliant logic that is. Mr Minister, at the end of the day, the Minister must take a decision on who will be the director of the Directorate, and on his own responsibility, because you probably do not take the first one and are so wrong that he should be replaced in three, four months. There's got to be some thought before that. Don't take that responsibility away from you. Let me get this straight. With what you asked, how could we have slept with the Secretary of State being interchangeable? This was a visible situation, this was a situation that was like this, because there were officials, underneath them were people who were at least at the ministry that I knew for years, no matter who the minister was. They were really taking care of the logic of the operation of a system, and they were loyal official logics. I know that there are some distractions, and I know they can't understand it either, because they only understand loyalty to themselves and it's the only loyalty they can accept. I'd rather see you recommend officers. Have them, have them.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u63	Thank you. Minister, the waiting line in front of you is still quite long, you'll have to wait a little longer. I give the next word on the list, this is Member of Parliament, Milan Squeakl.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u64	Good day to you all. Mr Minister, Presidents, Members and Members of Parliament. First of all, I would like to say that it is very interesting that in one of the previous locksmiths, Mr Minister put himself on the other side, he began to ask Members how we could have suffered. This is an even interesting thesis that when the government no longer has arguments, it simply returns to the opposition role. I think it's very clear how this could have been 12 years, in saying, "pained." The conditions were perfectly clear. When I myself acted as Secretary of State at the initiative of one of the ministers, I knew that I was bound to be Minister. When another government came along, the new finance minister wanted me to. So I told him, Tink, don't try! Don't even try! Another secretary of state thought she could stay, only a week went on until this government meeting. And then we were state secretaries, who were on one side of the office, and on the other hand we tried to be the top of the so-called profession, of course we suffered. We were amphibians. The system introduced at the time of entry into the European Union, in order for the European Union to say that the Slovenian public administration is a political one, was a correction system. With Mr Virant, then the Secretary of State, we sat in some summer months in 2000, and we talked a lot about how to solve the problem of these amphibians, the secretary of state, and, of course, the system that was seductive was real, we have expertise, and at the top of the profession are not officials, the CEOs and so on are appointed. See, this is very important because when we met the last conditions for entry into the European Union, at least in an area that I know a little more about, it was very important that it was stipulated in the legislation that the Director of the Budget Control Office was an apolitical person. That it is a person who, on the basis of conditions, standards and calls, receives a five-year mandate to be able to verify independently from the Minister of Finance what his fellow Minister for Regional Development is doing. And that, Mr Minister, was a formal condition that we could say that we have an independent internal supervisory function in the area of financial supervision. Now I must say, of course, that if we take a closer look at this documentation, which was signed in Athens in April 2003, that Slovenia has already violated this law with the last amendment, because the Director of the Budget Authority, if the Government does not take pleasure in his report for the second half of 2005, at any time for a change. And of course it's far from what's in the economy. In the economy, the Head of Internal Audit is the President's right-hand manor and reports directly to the Supervisory Board. And it works along with the external auditor with his hand in hand, for which it is even stipulated to be appointed by the congregation. And he's not the president of the board who would have hoped without a supervisory board to change the director of the internal audit service. However, the government has chosen to replace the budget office's Director at any time because it is not politically compatible or because it has drawn attention to the problem that has arisen at the Ministry of X and, of course, it does not please anyone politically. I fully agree with the fact that in law we have laid down conditions, standards, invitations, official councils and thus put into law a career system. But you need to put yourself in the shoes of a 25-year-old graduate lawyer or a master of economics who starts his career. And the top of his career is to become the Director-General of the Public Procurement Documentation or Law Sector, for example, or, I don't know, the Director-General for Tax Law. And this Director-General for Tax Law, when he becomes and comes to the top of this career scale, can at any time fall, not only as we suggest, six months after the new government. Then, of course, there will be stupidity in writing legislation and there will be constitutional disputes. The Minister and I had a discussion when this first law was adopted. And, of course, Mr. Minister found out a number of locksmiths when he said, "Who are you in law enforcement, saying that the matter is unconstitutional?" The legislative and legal service of the then National Assembly has done nothing but respect what each independent official must do: to draw attention to the facts. We know what happened to the Director of Legal and Legislative Services in this National Assembly. And that's what this is about, Mr. Secretary. It is not a question of what government can and whether a minister or someone is compatible. It's about breaking your spine and there's not going to be a lot of young people thinking about a career in a government where every other opinion breaks their spine. And this is, of course, a different society than the company you even said you were talking about, which, even in the area of budgetary control, the European Union has confirmed that we have an apolitical public administration and political budgetary control. These are simple facts. Something about this has already been told you by the Constitutional Court, some of which we are trying to tell you with the proposed amendments. The ruling coalition must decide that. I'm sorry you're changing your mind about what position you're in. When you were Secretary of State, you were much more professional. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u65	Thank you. Member Paula Rupar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u66	Thank you very much. Some would be appraised by their achievements in education and titles, not only by doctors and masters of the profession, but by doctors of demagogies, intimidation and lies. If any of these debaters are blind in front of me from LDS species, that they are now experts in the cities of the state administration, then they lie to themselves first. No one in these higher places has been able and able to work in the past in these twelve years if he has not been proved loyal. And you've started these checks, gentlemen, even with illegal and illegal means of secret police, verifications, with various spies, until you've established a hundred percent loyalty. And then the government switched, and there was this phenomenon, when these people who were employed in the past didn't become kims, they became nostalgics. Even the other way around, because if we didn't work and we didn't want to work so we didn't cause any damage, I'd understand, but they started sabotaging. And we already have these cases with this government of laws that have gone public, not even the ministers, but some secretaries, some undersecretaries or state administration deputies, nothing. The last case, gentlemen, was about closing the stores on Sundays. Let's remember, it's still fresh. If someone says that employees in the economy and in the state administration should not be compared, if this is completely incompatible, he has completely missed his principles. Why workers have to do what the boss wants, productively, well, qualityly, and the head of these people can't ask for it in the government. I think it's, I'm sorry, it's crazy, not just illogical, it's crazy. If the boss asks because he is the boss, because the people have put him in a responsible position, from their employees to do what is right, they have to do what they do, otherwise the law should give him the opportunity to thank him for his cooperation, and get a professional and good man, not on political pay, but on his will to work for him. And if anyone even says that this has not been proven in practice so far, I can tell you no cases, and unfortunately I won't have enough time. But I still say: in the past there is no higher function in this country, than the judiciary, if you want, to politics, to anything, without strict verification. We have a court-martial case. By the time we said that the President of the Court of Auditors would not be a political person, someone had frozen membership in his client and thus became unpolitical. So who are the gentlemen bluffing?Oh, my God! In fact, I cannot even thank Minister Virant for his remarkable law. For me, I think it's a little too sharp. If we want people to serve people because they have a job like that and a job like that, we have to do it if it doesn't go with a good word and ugly. What is obvious, however, is bluffing itself because it was those people who were doing it in doctoral dissertation with the demagogia "shopping" people across Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u67	Thank you. Member Willie Rezman has the floor. He's not here. Member Joseph Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u68	Thank you very much. Exaggeration, demagogism, deception, lies, and populism are growing stronger from these kinds. I would warn you because there is not enough time, only a respected colleague from Maribor who had previously, not only read his own thing, but he learned political pamphlets and propaganda from his mind. If he does so in the future, then some will begin to wonder whether, when he recently declared the Mariborians crazy, he concluded, he generalised on the basis of such performances by his Member, who also comes from Maribor. And it would certainly be wise for us to stop betting here before this national assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u69	Thank you. My word to Minister Virant. [[He's not here.]] Comrade Grimes, I can't give you a debate because you don't have time. Does anyone else want to discuss the content ahead of us and, of course, within the time available to his delegation? [[No, no, ……]] Then I conclude the debate. Before we go to the vote, I ask all Members and Members to check their voting devices in a consistent sense. I also remind you, however, that if the amendment under number 1 is adopted, the amendment under number 2 to this article becomes irrelevant. We're moving on to decision-making. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LDS Group to Article 45. We're voting. I'm sorry. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? Comrade Gantar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u70	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary-General! The Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will of course support the amendment to the 45th Article for the reasons stated several times. In principle, it is also more often that we encourage those who propose to do bad things, that they do not intend to do so, and that by doing so, we show ourselves a mirror more than anything else. I'd like to say this myself because it was already a talk about theologians, maybe there's something else you'd like to say about sociologists. We know the so-called manifesto and latent goals. Those proposed by the proposer, in this case of the law, propose, state and write publicly. However, the latents are those who are hidden in the back, who must remain behind precisely because the proposer does not want to expose them, because it would only endanger the adoption of the law and show that there is something else in the back, other than what is seriously declaring. These latent objectives are actually to make available and flexible and bending public administration. If we do not wish to do so, the amendment we are proposing should be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u71	Thank you. Any other explanation for the voice? What explanation on behalf of the Group of Members? Comrade Run, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u72	Thank you very much. We will both support the amendments tabled in the Social Democrats' Group of Members. Both that submitted by the Members of the Liberal Democracy and ours. We are convinced that it is justified to doubt that the existing solutions proposed by the law may result in greater politicalisation of the administration. I think that none of us should want to do so, nor should the current government and government, and that it would be sufficient for any current authority to have the opportunity to replace the highest state officials within six months of the performance and that its right to do so would end here. In any event, it would not be possible for officials to be dismissed another year after the performance, since in such a case it could indeed replace the five most responsible in a particular administrative body within five years and introduce a system of complete submission to the Minister's highest policy officer. We argue, however, that indirectly, the subordination of all others, which would not benefit a high-quality professional independent administration, is why we will support both amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u73	Explanation of vote, Mr Gulič.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u74	Dear Presidents, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! Of course, I will support the amendment of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, because it represents a guardian for people. Of course, the permanent pressure on anyone in any job is distasteful. On the one hand, he demobilizes a person, makes him passive and, of course, makes him "serve" if he wants to or doesn't want to. There's always a threat to him, Damocle's sword. What is going on is the energy that is supposed to be used for constructive work, but above all energy is to guess how to respond, if, of course, it is not a matter of itself expressed. Surely we do not want a slower officialship and an even more obedient one. The comparison with the workers is of course not in place, but the official must not only listen to his superiors, but also follow positive legislation and here is usually the conflict that happens, the conflict of interests. And if this threat, the social threat, is not just psychological, it's too great, then of course we don't have operationally good offices anymore. I think it would be good for you to reconsider and support the amendment of the Liberal Democracy. I'll do it, of course.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u75	Thank you. Explanation of the vote by Mr Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u76	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! I will be happy to support the amendment because the law is significantly improving. As with everyday life more than color and the peanuts of chickens, what matters is what eggs they carry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u77	Thank you. Explanation of voice. Member Grimes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u78	Thank you for your word. Of course I'll vote against it, because I'd like to point out the swindling. Just a little while ago, one LDS member disputed the comparability of the current proposal with the former interchangeability of State secretaries, since the State secretaries were then fully political officials. But from exactly the same party, from exactly the same people we only heard a year ago that during that period the secretaries of state were the same profession, which had nothing to do with politics. That's what they say, whether they weren't telling the truth at the time or not. I personally think they're both wrong. The other thing I'd say is this. In the debate, some have begun to display quite a troupe of theologians, when hallucinations occur, I can only find that Slavoj Žižek was once very right when he said that for some of his colleagues from LDS, the authority acts as a drug and apparently the abstinence crisis has become extremely severe after a year.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u79	Thank you. Member Breda Pecan has been reported to explain the vote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u80	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. I'll support both amendments. It is very logical to say that we will support the two amendments mainly because without the hope of victory we are forecasting a vote because we know that we will be defeated, as usual, despite the fact that the amendment is meaningful and ensures neutrality, professionalism and independence of the state and the municipal administration. I will turn to this argument why to vote in favour of these two amendments, especially on a case-by-case basis, because this article also discusses the possibility of the discharge of the Director or the Secretary of the Municipal Administration. I would like to say that it is the independence and expertise of the head of the municipal administration that is one of the fundamental conditions for a long-term functioning of the congregation. And I can honestly say that it would not be very difficult for me, in a public contest and with good references from a selected candidate who might be a different political province than I am, to work as the director of the municipal administration. Why? Because I know that a person who gives much and especially to his professional integrity, that it is a reliable marriage, that the municipal administration will do well and that he will do well even after the current mayor or mayor is gone. As a result, it seems to me that it is pointless to constantly increase the chances of ridding these people.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u81	Thank you. We will vote on the first amendment of the Liberal Democracy Group. Comrade Squeakle, explanation of voice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u82	I explain my voice on my behalf and, of course, I will support the amendment. The reason for me to support the amendment is because I would like the profession to be valid even at a time when some State secretaries were political amphibians. That this is true is evidenced by the fact that at that time thousands of laws and regulations were written by political officials or political amphibians. Now that we have a professional government and even a reform committee, however, a simple law such as the harmonisation of certain provisions needs to be placed in a public contract of low value and external opinion or experts. I think the functioning of the public administration is always measured by external results. Slovenia's entry into the European Union and the fulfilment of all conditions was proof of this. I will be pleased if you are particularly aware that more professional and politicalally independent or apolitical top officials will have in Slovenia, any government will be easier to rule in Slovenia. But not that every government that comes in first sweeps with officials, but then starts making changes that are not just breaking the spines, but changing to be a society. To my colleague and some of you who have talked about this, I recommend that you consider the slightly longer-term consequences of this action today if you do not support our amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u83	Thank you. Ambassador Kumer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u84	Thank you for your word. I will support both amendments, for a simple reason, because I would like public servants to be at least partially as protected as Minister Virant was in the previous term. In fact, he was protected by the opposition and the position. And on the topic of the spine. I would like to, and I know that all the employees will have a spine, the question is, will they have all the vertebrates? And these amendments are going this way to have a perfect spine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u85	Thank you. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, 23 votes in favour, 40 votes in favour. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. The National Assembly is moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Social Democrats Group to Article 45. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 39. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting to the debate Article 61 and the amendment of the Liberal Democracy Group. Who wants a word? Pavel Gantar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u86	I think I still have time for a brief explanation. See, with the amendment to Article 61, we delete the article by which the applicants abolish all disciplinary procedures. I would say so, although I think that these disciplinary procedures should be better regulated, more specifically, perhaps more flexible if I use this infamous concept, I still think that our solution, if I may say so, is less bad than that, that at least a few guards are not to be replaced by people, depending on the chairman and on his opinion and his will. Of course, it would be good if we worked it out more, but why? Of course, the LDS Club did not share this, because it is confident that it is a work that will not have an impact. However, I certainly believe that our solution is better and that this system, by which the fate of these workers is entirely dependent on the leaders, is unacceptable, so I propose that you support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u87	Anyone else want a word? Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u88	First of all, I must say that by adopting this amendment, the law would become completely inconsistent, because at the same time we would have the opportunity to say that the employment relationship in the disciplinary procedure is terminated and at the same time as the termination of the employment contract after the U.S.R. The adoption of this amendment itself would cause great chaos in this law. Otherwise, it is one of the basic issues of the law: do civil servants need special status, especially protection, when it comes to determining their responsibility to achieve work results and to breach work obligations. Our answer to this question is not that public administration should be subject to the rules applicable to all employees in this country, i.e. in the economy, private companies, and this amendment would virtually eliminate this fundamental amendment. Of course, I must point out that the Labour Relations Act contains fuses if it comes to identifying the employee's criminal liability and wanting to cancel his employment relationship for false reasons or because of incapacity, of course, we have in the law a guardian who allows him the right to defend and some other guardians offered by labour law.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u89	Thank you. This concludes the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LDS Group to Article 61. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, 16 votes against 41. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting to the debate Article 70 and the amendment of the DeSUS Group of Members. Who wants a word? Master Žnidaršič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Our amendment wants to remove a solution that is contrary to at least five government documents, so we expect the government to support it as well. For instance. At the plenary session of the Committee of the Regions, the government supported exactly the position we propose. In the Green Paper, a response to demographic change: a new solidarity between generations, she wrote: "It is even more important that employers of older people are not forced to retire, but rather to decide for themselves when to leave the labour market and that the state should create such conditions that older people are motivated to extend their working life without risk." Come in. "The proposed solution is contrary to the guidelines of economic and social reforms to increase economic growth and employment prepared by the Government Reform Committee in Report No 1, the proposal for measures, Action 51, which provides for the promotion of the inclusion of working elderly in age groups for those forms of work where contributions to pension and disability insurance are paid. In the national strategic report on adequate and sustainable pensions, which Slovenia had to send to Brussels, our country has committed itself to follow Goal 5 which speaks of extending working time and preventing early retirement. Our country is on the tail of those countries of the European Union by the number of employees between the ages of 55 and 64. The proposed solution is also contrary to the objectives of the development scenario of the strategy for the development of Slovenia prepared by UMAR. That development scenario foresees an increase in the employment rate of the active elderly, in particular the age group from 55 to 64. The solution is also contrary to the second paragraph of the fifth indent of point 4 of the 2005 Programme of Action for Active Employment Policy, which sets out, in the sixth indent of the Active Employment Policy Programme, more intensive employment of older persons, with a focus on the 55th to 64th Group. The proposed solution is also contrary to the recommendation of an international organisation of work which speaks of discrimination based on age and travels countries to promote equal opportunities and treatment of workers, regardless of age, but stresses that retirement should be voluntary and that retirement age should be flexible. The proposed solutions in the draft law are also contrary to the Lisbon objectives set out, chapter one under B, priority action, guideline 18 - 1 which literally says raising anything but the age limits of leaving the labour market, in line with the already established pension reform. The proposed solution is also contrary to Article 52 of the Disability and Pension Insurance Act. The current solution encourages insurers to retire later and therefore provides for a credit rating. The proposed solution discriminates against future state service pensioners who will not be able to exercise this credit rating, which we consider possible even non-compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which says that everyone should be equal before the law. Finally, the proposed solution is contrary to the provision in the coalition contract, in the chapter of work, family and social affairs, page 21, which provides for an increase in the resources and effectiveness of active employment policy programmes for the employment of older persons between the ages of 55 and 64, and for the abandonment of a financial incentive for early retirement. It is clear that this is why our parliamentary group thinks and is convinced that the government coalition cannot accept a solution that is contrary to it alone, with the programme itself, with the written documents listed, and therefore we expect the coalition partners to accept our proposal, which will be a condition for us to give our votes to the law as a whole. In fact, a law that is a shot in the knee to our own foretold solutions to this lightning, we do not want to shoot ourselves in our knees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u91	Thank you. Message from Brad Roast.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u92	Thank you for your word. Here I must say that, after the full explanation of the amendment by Mr Žnidaršič, it is difficult to add more. I would like to stress in particular what he said at the outset, this is the Green Paper on new solidarity between generations and employment, to which the Committee of the Regions of the European Union also adopted an opinion, which, together with me and other fellow Members, who are members of the delegation of the Republic of Slovenia to the Committee of the Regions, was also supported by colleague Šteba Tomaž. Therefore, I think that at least what it is, the entire coalition will have to vote in favour of this amendment today, also by its colleague Steba, because he would then vote against himself if he voted against this amendment. I believe that it would be time for the government to also, when proposing individual legislative changes, look at the European Union documents relating to similar matters, such as this article or the amendment of this article to the Law on Public Servants. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u93	Thank you. Member Aloys Sok has entered the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u94	Thank you very much. I have read very carefully this explanation given by my fellow Member, Mr Žnidaršič. I would also like to hear the position of the Minister, who will probably also take the floor. But there is only one aspect that has not been mentioned in this problem and is very hot in this country. This is that many young educated people who finish studies are in a situation they cannot claim to be equal under law to all for a simple reason because they cannot reach their first job. If we had a normal system, then anyone who achieved the conditions of retirement would probably also retire. And so it happens to us that the people who reach these conditions continue to be in a working relationship. Here our decision is that, when we weigh these arguments, we cannot support this amendment for these reasons in New Slovenia. This is because they do not get their opportunities, go from small towns to big cities, or all of them across borders. This is a national and, in a demographic sense, an extremely sad story. This is how we lose young people in that most vital period, and of course also young families, who are supposed to be the guarantee that the nation will recover as such at the demographic level. Therefore, once again, we understand everything that Mr Žnidaršič has said that some of his concerns are valid, but when we weigh these two arguments, we cannot really agree that some people can decide and continue to remain in a working relationship, and on the other hand, young people are left without opportunity for their first job. But it is also possible that some of our decisions will also be made, without now leading to a constitutional court to say what else, but that someone else will judge and confirm whether we were right or wrong. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u95	Thank you. My colleague Rezman signed up.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u96	Thank you. In fact, the unemployment rate for highly educated people is increasing. But I would like to remind you that there would be mistakes, and it was not an agreement in the coalition that now the younger generation would be opposed to the older generation, and that in some way this older generation would be served so that they would now see the older ones - I am also among the slightly older ones, at least more than the average of the Slovenians as those we are on the way. The Coalition Treaty states that we will open up new quality jobs without bringing older people into peace as soon as possible so that young people can meet their jobs. We didn't write that down. I think it is also a mistake to speak in this way for demographic reasons, because there will be no longer a long time when we will not have our workers at all, to hire them, because there will be more jobs due to structural and other unemployment than we will be able to offer working-age and younger generations. It could also be, I would say, demagogically, if we remember that some older people wanted to get some older ones to agree to work until the 1970s, etc., to pay as long as possible contributions to the pension fund, so that the younger ones who are not retired now, and once again, will run out of pension money. The whole species have such reasons to speak in favor of enabling those who are willing and able to work ahead. And there's something else that matters. This is not just about discrimination against those who are older. It is discrimination against those employed in public administration. Because jobs for young people are also lacking in the private sector, and there they can choose how long they will work and when they will retire, so it is not right to have those who are employed in public administration, and there are many of them in Slovenia to have a deprived position. Perhaps it is a questionable status with regard to equality with the law, as our constitution foresees. I also propose that we stick to our coalition commitments earlier.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u97	Ambassador Znidarsich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u98	Thank you very much. I thank Mr Sok for pointing out one aspect which, of course, does not apply. For most of these jobs that are supposed to be abandoned by those who end their working careers in the state administration, young people, as they are called, are not capable of doing. These can only be replaced by those who have been working in specific areas for many years for those who are supposed to leave. This argument does not bear the criticism, the top of which was known before the government wrote at least one of the six documents it goes with itself. In this respect, we absolutely insist, for principle reasons, that the government of something that it has written down and communicated even in Brussels is also true. Not just three months to advise what we know he wants, but all the time since it's written like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u99	A replica? A fellow Sok replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u100	Just for a little while, Mr. Žnidaršič, who said it wasn't true. I don't agree that he doesn't. As a rule, I don't think he does. If someone retires and an official enters his seat from another position, then by the chaining system this place is released and thus creates room for those who have come from college who have come from universities and are waiting for their first chance. And once again, I say we're not going to get along the wrong way, and I fully understand what you're thinking. If there were enough jobs available in this country, I would even support it. However, since the problem is employment, these young people who have completed their studies and are not given the opportunity, it seems to me that when these two arguments are taken into account, people who are at the end of their working days who have created their own existence through life should somehow make room and give the opportunity to young people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u101	Thank you. I would like to take the floor with you, Ambassador Bajc.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u102	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, especially colleagues from the Democratic Party of Retired Persons. The second paragraph you propose to delete is "the chairman may". It is said that someone who meets the conditions for retirement may terminate the contract of employment. The second thing I would like to say is, I have tried and I think that one of the colleagues from the Democratic Party of Pensioners is also the mayor, try to sign off on one job in the municipal or state administration with secondary or higher education. I tried it on my own. I had 156 applications for one job, of which I had them, I think, 16 or 17 for one level of higher education than was required, and I think there were 8 of them with two degrees of higher education. Such an amendment, as you propose, would possibly support us if we had full employment, but not that we have, in particular, people with higher and higher education who have been registered at employment institutions. And for the third time, what I would like to say is that there is no violation of the provisions of the Coalition Treaty in any way, but there is probably something else, since this second paragraph of Article 162 says that a working relationship can be terminated and no one asks of this person, in fulfilment of the conditions for retirement, is said to be a full retirement period, a full age that actually goes into retirement. I will not support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u103	Thank you. The text is by Milan M. Squeakl, Member of Parliament. Here you go. Replicas, of course, have priority. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Even if that is true of what Mr Bajc said, then the government should write everywhere in its documents if we did not have unemployment, and we would do so. But we didn't use that "if" anywhere.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u105	Thank you. We continue the debate. The word is Master Squeakle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u106	I must say that this discussion is very interesting and I fully support what Mr Žnidaršič said. The point is that he simply pointed out what the government is writing or even speaking, unlike what the government is doing. In principle, however, I do not know, although I am in favour of being able to discuss various aspects of the ruling coalition within us in Parliament. But I understand that it would be good, however, for the government to do so before harmonising, which is obvious to coordinate, so that it would not be unnecessary to discuss something here, which I think is entirely true. Mr Žnidaršič points out that the professional experience in Slovenia would also apply to people who have reached retirement age. There have been many of these cases in the past. Some of the secretaries of state have been, or are, and some of the senior officials, so I fully support this proposal. This understanding of some Members, particularly my fellow Member Sok, around young people, you know, Mr Sok, if you really believed that, then the previous amendment would be supported, because hundreds of young people, now 25 years old, will not think about careers in the Slovenian public administration, but in the Brussels public administration. No, I don't know if it's a thank God, it might be a thank God, but it's about using the same argument in all of the amendments and being consistent. But this coalition debate, I don't know, call coalition meetings, leave us out of this story. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u107	Thank you. Minister Virant applied for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Well, this time the key arguments have already been made. It is the fact that the law allows the continuation of work to those who have fulfilled the full conditions for retirement, but let this continuation of work be a matter of consensus between the employer and the employee, let it be a matter of agreement. This law is without prejudice to pension law, to bonuses that belong to those who continue to be in a working relationship when they have fulfilled full conditions. We will certainly not be working through public administration. The Coalition Treaty also states that the government will reduce the number of employees in public administration. If, through the public administration, we were working on a pension policy, or if we were working on an active employment policy, then it would be very simple, then we could open up 2,000 more jobs in the administration and have largely solved unemployment. It is important to be aware that we are talking about public administration, where the basic objective is to function, as we said before, in a friendly and efficient manner. It also means effectively with as little financial burden as possible. In this context, there is a reduction in the number of employees. So let's make this a deal. If there is a mutual will, if motivation is, if the cases, as colleagues of Squeakl mentioned, and of course there are and there are many people who, with all the rich experiences they have gained in their careers, can continue to benefit the organization greatly, then, of course, the head of the service will retain them or agree to a normal continuation. If not, if this consensus does not exist, however, the job will open up, thus allowing a reduction in the number of jobs, or the job will actually open up to hundreds of young unemployed people looking for a job and would also want jobs in public administration. The demand for public administration services is very, very high, as opposed to what Cwickl said, the candidates for public administration jobs are huge. Every call will show us that again.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u109	Thank you, Minister. Mr. President has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u110	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Otherwise, my colleague Bajc and the Minister have just taken away the main thread of my intervention or debate, because I wanted to stress exactly what it says in the second paragraph so that the chairman can cancel the employment contract. In fact, I respect and respect what my colleague, Žnidaršič, said on behalf of the parliamentary group that proposed this amendment. So the reasons you mentioned stand, but you should see others talking about the need to keep this second paragraph in this law. All these matters about the need for individuals, and so on, can easily be settled in the second paragraph. Also where there will possibly be insufficient experts in individual areas or there will be no other experts to occupy the seats of those who meet the conditions for retirement. Of course, in practice now that there is no such thing, reverse cases arise. I assure you, they exist. I was also the chairman myself years ago, who also had to try to sort things out in such cases, but I know that we faced exactly the opposite problems in order to work better in some areas and then settle them in a narrow area, but there was a problem for employees who, while meeting the conditions for employment, did not want to do so and dragged the matter up to, I don't know, until when. I reiterate, in this paragraph it is well written, that the chairman may cancel the contract for a public servant, but of course they can agree that his knowledge with his competence, his practice continues and helps to develop. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u111	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Potch has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u112	Thank you very much. To me, I would say, it is not the essential content of a coalition contract, nor is it the unity or non-unity of a coalition, which you will already be talking about in your house, but I would like to say something about the facts. What Mr Virant claims is also half the truth this time, Mr Minister. In fact, it is written that retirement or no retirement is not dependent on the will of the employee, but on the will of his superior. A staff member may so desire and may ask nicely and may beg and may request, if he does not have the same will of his superior, he must retire. And that's what this is all about. I didn't say anything about something being wrong, that's the point of it being fixed, you don't say the facts that aren't in the law, so it's going to be implemented in practice, or it doesn't make any sense of it. I'd like to say something else in this regard. It bothers me that there is an important substantive difference between the provisions of this law and the policy that you proclaim in government reforms. Government reform explicitly states that it will be more motivated to maintain work, to stay in the workplace as late as possible in order to increase the age rate on retirement. This will therefore apply, already now as an option under the law on pension and disability insurance, this will be applied in future accelerated and should not apply to public servants. I have not heard the argument, really not, why this should be handled separately and differently in public servants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u113	Thank you, Mr. Run. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u114	Thank you. That's all I want to react to, because you're accusing me of something that doesn't hold. You said I was telling you half the truth, that I said it was up to the employee to decide whether or not the employee would continue his work. I used the terms consensus, consent, mutual will. I think it is perfectly clear to everyone what is the mutual will to continue the working relationship. I used these terms, I said exactly as it was written in the law, so I'd expect an apology because you insulted me so much that I'm speaking half-truth. You can look at the magnetogram in the middle and then decide if you'll apologize to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u115	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Janc.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u116	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, I don't think it's the most hygienic thing to talk about a coalition agreement in this room. I don't think this is a good time, nor is it time to talk about this with the amendments. That doesn't belong to me. That's my grade. Second. My experience is that the vast majority of people who slowly finish their jobs can hardly wait for the last day to retire. A large majority. There are exceptions. And I'm sure this law speaks, and this word "may" tells me, and allows that possibility to still be given, that the employer and the worker agree that they can extend the matter, but let it be an exception. It is correct, however, that there are usually over 100 candidates and candidates waiting for that vacant seat, and they are already lining up to take up that job. Here, however to limit, it would be inappropriate for all the story that we know to these public service places, which are certainly strongly invited still in Slovenia and even in this place would be inappropriate to support something and then allow this work to be extended. That's why I can't support it for simple reasons. Before me, the arguments have already been made clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u117	Thank you, Mr. Janz. Mr. Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u118	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Minister and Members and Members of Parliament! No matter how you define yourself until this paragraph at the time of the amendment, i.e. until the second paragraph in this Article, or the amendment, I will vote in favour of the amendment. It must be said that this is not the case with mutual will. That's not true. The chairman may cancel after the expiry of this period to this staff member, even if he wishes to keep on working. This is quite clear from this Article. Otherwise, you can agree that you will work to keep working, even the chairman may suggest that he continue to work, but he says that he will not go to peace and go to peace. The chairman may ask him to retire, and he says that he wants to work, and so he does not have mutual will. That's why it doesn't matter that you say that. Don't fool people! However you define yourself to this amendment or article it does not matter, there is only mutual will and consensus here. And that's it.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u119	Thank you, Mr. Gantar. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u120	Thank you very much. I'm sorry. I really don't know how else to say this. Continued working relationship is a matter of consensus, consensus between the chairman and the employee. That's what the law says. It's the only way to understand the law. Continuing the working relationship, that is, continuing to work, is a matter of agreement between the two. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] This does not require some superior legal knowledge that is understood to be the case.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u121	Thank you, Minister. Mrs. Purgatory.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u122	In this case, the word consensus does not cover the relationship between two equal interlocutors. One of them has the right to decide, and the other has only the right to want. As a result, it is impossible to expect a consensus to be reached otherwise, if a worker is told that he meets both conditions and cannot continue. I'm not going to explain my personal stories in this room like you used to, Mr. Secretary of State, but I'm going to explain the personal experience of a lot of people or family. [[...]] [[A voice from behind.]] Mr. Minister, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, but I'm personally affected at this point and there was a lapsus lingue, it wasn't meant to be an insult. [[...]] Because it is simply that a number of people have warned about what is in this marriage and feel threatened, they are not related to me. This is because the Slovenian demographic story has two ends. One is the question of birthlessness, the other is the question of population ageing. Similar demographic stories exist in other countries in Europe. A similar story seeks to resolve the Lisbon strategy, which seeks to increase the population's activity in the labour market over a longer period of time. I can't imagine, really, not that any woman in the labour-intensive industry would want to work even when it's already completely broken. But what an official I can imagine wanting to work even after my retirement age. But how she can make this wish come true is another thing. But I'm done with this. In Iceland, they have high birthrates and also allow for an extension of working age to 70 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u123	Thank you, Mrs. Patrati. Mrs. Roach.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u124	Very briefly. If this article says the chairman can do so with the employee's consent, then that would be true of what you say, Mr Minister. However, since this is not written, it is the view that the chairman may decide, sir or lady, but the employee must go. Okay.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u125	Thank you, Mrs. Roach. Mr. Kumer.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u126	But I'm going to turn around a little differently on what's a colleague of Pecan's. As it is now written, the interpretation is: without the consent of the superior, even if he wishes, the employee cannot continue to work. That's how it's written now, and that's why it's an amendment. That these interferences are not only superiors, but also those who wish to continue.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u127	Thank you, Mr. Kumer. Mr. Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u128	Once again very briefly, Mr President. Mr Minister, the second paragraph of Article 162 speaks of the termination of the employment contract, not the continuation of the employment relationship. Therefore, it is clear that breaking up a working relationship is not a matter of consensus after this age, when this staff member disagrees with this, I would like to continue working. That's crystal clear. Otherwise, Mr Minister, any continuation of the working relationship even before the deadline when it has not yet reached retirement is a matter of consensus, as both must agree. So what are you talking about? I think you should, really, maybe some elementary logic.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u129	Thank you, Mr. Gantar. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[No, no, ……]] Then we move on to a decision on the amendment of the DeSUS Group to Article 70. Mr Žnidaršič, on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u130	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We will support this amendment because we want the government to do what it says. Secondly, because those who do not do well or do not do well in their work of error, they can be absolutely relieved of their position for reasons of guilt and due process laid down by the Labour Relations Act. Thus, there is no need to seek out other instruments so that those who are not in line with their tasks do not move or even retire. And, of course, not least, what Mr Minister said is directly contrary to what the government has written. I quote, "it is even more important that employers of the elderly not force them to retire, but to make their own decisions." In the case of some consensus, it means that there is no self-determination, but the decision could be explicitly the chairman and the end of the same decision to extend the working age, and even less that the government, as it wrote, would motivate older people to extend their working life without risk. So it's impossible to support something. I would like to stress that we will support this amendment, not to create some tension in the coalition, we have supported a lot of things in this National Assembly that we have not agreed on because we are in this government coalition. And there's probably going to be some kind of support for that. But this is what we all wrote together, and therefore I expect all of us to do together, and I think that because of this, any statement is empty because it is supported by the government with written documents and we must insist on this. Nor will we be able to give support to this law as a whole if this amendment is not adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u131	Thank you, Mr. Znidarsic. Anybody else want to explain their voice? Mr. Rezman. In your own name? [[Yeah.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u132	Of course, I will also support the amendment, because I am reading, we will strive to increase the share of insurers throughout the population and to extend the active period of each individual's life. I read that we will increase the resources and effectiveness of active employment policy programmes between 55 and 64 years of age. I read that we will ensure that people's work and social activities continue. And now I answer what that word "may" means. This word, that someone can extend their partial activity if, of course, the boss allows it, means that those who are compatible can continue to work but are incompatible. This simply means that someone else will decide on behalf of those who want to work. And there's no consensus on that. Only the boss will agree. But others will have to listen.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u133	Thank you. We're voting. The vote on the amendment is ongoing. 65 Members and Members are present. There were 22 votes in favour, up to 40. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. I am putting to the debate Article 86 and the amendment of the Group of Members of the Social Democrats and the amendment of the same content of the LDS Group of Members. Anybody want a word? Mr. Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u134	Mr President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, Mr Minister. Of course, this amendment of ours refers to the second paragraph of Article 86, which proposes that within three months of the performance we should be able to resolve all the chiefs of the administrative unit, which, of course, seems totally unacceptable to us. It seems completely unacceptable and illogical to use this law to replace all the chiefs of administrative units. First of all, we're not changing the structure of administrative units in anything. We do not change the powers, the organisation, whatever it is to do with this, but we simply want to resolve all the chiefs of the administrative units, and I take this law as a pretext that it can be done. It seems so brutal, there's no difference between manifest and latent function anymore, but it's only manifest. And when this law is passed, everyone can go, and it is up to us who stays and who doesn't. Of course, we cannot accept such a proposal and cannot support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u135	Thank you, Mr. Gantar. Mrs. Pechanova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u136	Thank you so much for saying that. Very briefly, I would simply say that colleague Gantar is somewhat disturbed - not all of the chiefs of the administrative units. Some of them are real, and they won't be replaced in the last three months. For this reason, I will only ask the Minister: is there on the list of those who will be suspended within three months of the law, including the lady whom, due mainly to public opinion, you have appointed as chief of the administrative unit, not because you are convinced that she was indeed the best of all possible candidates?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u137	Thank you, Mrs. Pecans. Mr. Secretary, would you like a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Well, it is interesting that you did not object to that basic article, a fundamental amendment to the law that puts the chiefs of administrative units into a number of those directors who are interchangeable for non-criminal reasons one year after the government's appearance or after the appointment of the minister. That doesn't bother you at all. It bothers you, however, that this provision would have been applied immediately and would have been valid three months after the application of this law. This is a very, very interesting way of thinking. It is said that it is okay for the chiefs of administrative units to be interchangeable, it is okay for the government to change them, but it is okay for some government to do it "ours". But the fact that this is now in effect and that this is now only three months after the law is in force is wrong. That's the first thing. Second thing. You are faced with a person who will be fully responsible for what will happen under this provision. Three months after the entry into force of this law, we can sit on the open stage if you want to, publicly, and discuss how we applied this legal provision. I now claim to use it responsibly. You have already said that we will use it irresponsibly to replace those who are not "ours" and to keep those who are ours. We'll meet in three months and throw the data on the table. But when we're back on these exchanges, there's going to be a taste of this debate today, especially for me, that I didn't get an answer to the question of how you can sleep and how you didn't get badly bad news if you actually lived 12 years at the head of some cowardice that made people without spines, kimovci and "semene", if I'm quoting your words. During the period when all the directors of the bodies in the composition, government services, state secretaries, it is said that those who have led what today are interchangeable, so chosen, without the call and professional conditions, without the prescribed work experience, without anything. How can you sleep when all of a sudden this is so terrible? With the system we now have a hundred times better than the previous one, because we have calls because we have prescribed conditions, work experience, professional education prescribed, procedures, call for proposals through the official council and so on. Now that the system is much better, it's been so bad for you, and before that, you were fine for 12 years. How can you sleep?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u139	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Gantar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u140	A colleague of Pechan's fixed me up, but even with those, I'd say, the question is whether they're enough. The system is now so useful that all those who will be the leaders of these administrative units will be placed under a new magnifying glass. Mr. Minister, if he's not the Minister of Health, he's asking us how we can sleep. Mr. Secretary, what do you care? Today ask us how we sleep, tomorrow you will ask us if the handcuffs you will give us are comfortable enough and not too much pressure. This system with which you boast has been set up on the basis of the experience we have gained in the work of the public administration and we have said that it is not good that the heads and directors of organs are in the composition and so on, political officials who are interchangeable. We have too much pressure from the parties to call them political, that's not good, because they have to be professional, let's move the line of expertise and political towards the top of the pyramid and make room for the professions. This is what we did with you when you were Secretary of State. And don't tell us that, and because of this question of how we sleep, we won't be dealing with you. Of course, we will deal with you then after three months, when we see the results that will surely be the same as we predicted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u141	Thank you, Mr. Gantar. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats and the amendments to the same content of the LDS Group to Article 86 of the Act. Mr. Potts, an explanation of the voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u142	Thank you very much. We wanted to point out with this amendment that we firmly believe that the deadline given when the government was replaced is also sufficient for the possible non-criminal replacement of directors in administrative units, chiefs of administrative units, and that there is no need to introduce a new deadline of three months just because the government did not find it available within this period and that there is still one that needs to be replaced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u143	Thank you. Mrs. Roach.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u144	Thank you very much. I will vote in favour of this amendment. I don't think it's necessary to explain in particular, but I would like to say that I find it distasteful mainly because of this, in my humble opinion, because the government has failed to find the people who could have obtained them in public competitions, who would have met all the criteria that would have to be met by the chiefs of administrative units, so that it failed or failed to perform all the replacements that it wanted to perform, and so it must have been difficult to choose three additional months. By doubting this, we will probably not be able to prove enough to you how you have abused these additional three months, because you probably will not be able to train suitable, quality people within these three months who will be able to meet the criteria for being appointed chiefs or chiefs of administrative units. We've seen this on one occasion, we've seen how you've changed the law on judicial service because of just one person so you don't talk about sex. And something like that has happened in this year that sometimes a person's stomach turns when he sees what you're doing.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-25-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u145	Thank you, Mrs. Pecans. Is there any other explanation? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 39. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. As no amendment has been adopted to the draft law, the assembly, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, will vote on the draft law on Wednesday, 30 November 2005, following the end of the last item of the agenda for this meeting. I hereby terminate this agenda item and interrupt the 11th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed on Tuesday 29 November at 10 a.m. Have a nice winter weekend.
