ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u1	Your Honor! The Committee on Budgetary Control has just finished its work, it needs some time to prepare a report and the meeting will continue at 11 a.m. So at 11 a.m., we will begin by considering the law on the revision of public procurement procedures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u2	In the Western spirit, it's still a good morning, otherwise it's a good day! We're moving on to 15. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Revision of Public Procurement Procedures, urgent procedure. I suggest we do this the following way. Since the report is already in reproduction, I see no reason why a government representative should not give his explanation and then also a representative of the labour force and representatives of the groups of Members. In the meantime, I'm assured the report will be on your desks. If you don't mind. If necessary, we will interrupt the meeting to submit any amendments. Well, and as I'm told, this is a report [[...]] [[Back-up advertising.]] But we're at point 15. Okay, thank you very much. I call on the representative of the Ministry of Finance. Please, it's your word. I would like to say just that, by the way, I have just received a notice that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mr Anton Anderlič from 12.00 p.m. on, Mr President Victory Jelinčič Trimeniti, Mr MEP mag. Ms Janez Kramberger and Mrs Breda Pečan. Thank you very much. I now give the floor to the representative of the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members and honourable Members! You have before you a law on amendments and additions to the law on the revision of public procurement procedures prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia primarily on the basis of an analysis of the possibility of drawing funds from European funds. She found that the current law on the revision of public procurement procedures could significantly impede the possibility of such drawing, and she decided to complete these procedures in the manner reflected in this proposal of the law before you today. What is the point of this marriage? The essence of this law is that only those who have an interest in awarding an order can submit an application for a review of the procurement procedures, but not just each and so on, in principle, if something has happened to my cow, should still be neighbors. This has happened now, and at least this is what we would like to avoid, because in many cases this principle has led to a literal blockade; for example, if two tenderers have applied, the revision procedure A, then the legal entity B, and once again the legal entity A, and the legal person B, and this vicious circle, has never been over. However, another important novelty brought by this law is that the President of the State Audit Commission may decide that the request for review does not hold back the activities of the contracting authority in the event that it assesses that it is, in its own words, for speculation, but not for objective facts which really require an audit or possible damage to the person who has applied for the invitation to tender. These are the shortest novelty of the law before you. I would add that today we have discussed in detail the second paragraph of Article 2, where there have been some reservations that, in the case of defending the public interest, the State Prosecutor should also have certain powers; that the Government has withdrawn from this proposal and that the Government supports all amendments adopted by the mother's labour force. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u4	Thank you very much. I note that we do not yet have the reports of the parent working body, nor do we have a rapporteur. If you agree, due to the economic use of time, I propose that we continue with the views of the parliamentary groups and then listen to the position of the home committee. But we can, of course, end the meeting. Mr. Scholch, procedurally. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u5	Look, these economic reasons you like to refer to so much will bury democratic principles. I object to this, and I think that this meeting is extremely ill-prepared, that the leadership of the assembly must imagine this and that it is not possible to start a point which, at least in a formal sense, does not meet all the conditions. That means someone doesn't do their job and I don't see any reason to be tolerated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u6	Thank you very much. And Mr. Zagorac.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u7	Thank you for your word. Your Honors are here! In the Slovenian National Party, in this parent body which has dealt with the proposed material, we do not have a member and position of the delegation to a large extent, or to a certain extent, it is also formed on the basis of this report. And since we do not have this report, the Members of the Slovenian National Party have not been able to look at it either. I'd ask if you could stop the meeting until we get the report.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u8	Thank you very much. That was my purpose, too. I just wanted to hear your point of view. That's why I'm hanging up for 20 minutes and we'll pick it up at 11:30. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u9	I suggest we continue the adjourned session. Thank you so much for coming back in time. During this time, the mother's working body has been able to complete and also reproduce the report and I invite the chairman of the Commission, Mr Mag. She has been trained to present the report of the Commission. The word is yours.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u10	Mr Vice-President, Mr Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament! Allow me to briefly present a report on the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the revision of the procurement procedures that we have prepared as a parent of the labour force this morning, after we were unable to carry out work at the meeting referred to in the previous Wednesday due to non-compliance with the business provisions. We have initially resolved the key dilemma in the debate unanimously at the Commission, including with the agreement of the Government, which is that the real aim of the law is to reduce the possibility of delaying tenderers with complaints at all stages of the proceedings and to avoid unnecessary and unjustified complaints from tenderers. That is why we have also drafted amendments to individual articles in the discussion below. We have found, both by the legislative and legal services and by the President of the State Audit Commission, that the supplements, as proposed by either the government or later the home labour body, are in line with the basic purpose of the law, which seeks to prevent the possibility of delaying applicants in all stages of the proceedings. This is necessary because, as a country, when the budget is adopted and as a result of the most efficient use of the European Union's resources, all public procurement could be completed within the deadlines. This will have a particularly important impact on, in my view, the effectiveness of drawing on funds for health investments from the so-called budget fund for health investments. We have also agreed in the Commission's opening discussion on the key point of the legislative and legal service, namely that there is already competition of competence in the second paragraph of Article 9, so we agreed on the Commission to provide for an increase in the number of bodies receiving active legitimacy to be deleted. We then held a debate on the individual amendments tabled and on the articles of the legislative proposal, in accordance with the business rules set by the Commission. The discussion was attended by a majority of the Commission's present members and invited members, and all the amendments were unanimously adopted with the agreement of all the members of the Commission. We therefore propose to the assembly that it adopt the proposed amendments, as they are prepared for the amended bill or that it adopt, depending on the debate, an amended law amending and supplementing the law on the revision of the procurement procedure, as prepared by the Committee on Budgetary Control and other public finances at today's 8th regular meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u11	Thank you very much, Mr. Squeakle. Well, you're about to get this report on the bench. Now, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 125, we are moving on to a presentation of the views of the groups of Members; everyone has five minutes to do so. I invite Mr Rudi Veršnik to present his position on behalf of the SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u12	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings to all present! Dear colleagues and colleagues, we have before us a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the revision of public procurement procedures. The basic purpose, as already stated by Mr President of the Commission on Budgetary Control and Public Finance, is to ensure conditions for faster withdrawal of funds from European funds. The law amends eight articles, supplemented by four amendments and coordinated by the Committee on Budgetary Control and other public finances. Under the proposed law, the State Audit Commission is also becoming a criminal delinquency body established in this Act, and the President of the State Audit Commission also acquires greater competences, all with a view to speeding up the procurement process. There is also a significant increase in fines for the offences committed, with between millions and 10 million proposed for the contracting authorities and between 300,000 and millions for the responsible person. The SDS Group believes that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the revision of public procurement procedures brings about changes that will contribute to the success of the work of the State Audit Commission, so we will also support the proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u13	Thank you very much, Mr. Versnik. The next one has the word, Mr Mag. Squeakle, on behalf of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Members of Parliament and Members, Mr Secretary of State! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, I will present a positive position on the amended bill amending and supplementing the law on the revision of procurement procedures, as prepared by the Commission at today's meeting. We believe that the competence of the State Audit Commission as a criminal body needs to be changed and more precisely defined. And we believe that the amendment to the first paragraph of Article 9 of the Law by a new dictate of the second article makes it clearer than now who has active legitimacy. It shall be held by that person who has or has had an interest in the award of the contract and who is likely to prove that it has been or could have been caused to it. Of course, we also support the new third paragraph because we agree with the necessity of establishing an institute of so-called emergency rescue. Thus, individual persons who are actively legitimately perform together only when there are several contracting entities in the joint offer. We also believe that the amendments, particularly in Article 3 and Article 5, have remained adequately designed, especially now that we have made the second paragraph of Article 5 clearer that the State Audit Commission decides within the limits of the request for review, namely any apparent infringements in the procurement process. And, of course, given the change in criminal sanctions, it is about harmonising the law on offences, at least I have no problem with that. We believe that today, if this is the case with the opinion of everyone in this National Assembly, we will be in favour of amendments to and additions to the law on the revision of public procurement procedures, as proposed by the Commission on Budgetary Control and other public finances, as this has been proposed in the end by both the State Audit Commission and its 2004 report, as well as the 2003 revisions of the State budget, have also been found in this National Assembly and will be more successful than now, we can accelerate the absorption of funds mainly from the European Union, Phare, where, by the end of the three years, the Schengen resources, where we have to complete the procedures in Slovenia by 2007 and the cohesion funds, which always last for a year, until the next two years of possible withdrawal. In this context, we believe that today's harmonised law is appropriate and will be supported by the Liberal Democracy Club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u15	Thank you very much, mag. Squeak. The position of the Social Democrats' Group of Members will be presented by Mr Ferri Horvat. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u16	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, Secretary of State! On behalf of the Social Democrats' Group, I express my support for the adoption of the amendment of the law by emergency procedure, with the aim of reducing or eliminating the possibility of delaying procurement procedures or even the abuse of the law, as is the case with individual tenderers. In our view, the proposal rightly points out, in particular, the problems of drawing on funds from the European Union funds, where there are strict deadlines for which overshooting threatens or prevents the use of funds, which is in itself a problem. However, problems arise or are evident in some other areas of public procurement. Cases in health care, road infrastructure construction cases, and where it could be listed are known. Procrastination causes significant material damage, delaying the implementation of emergency investments, including motorways, and causes problems and also direct harm to citizens and citizens, either those who are sick or others. We believe that the solutions to the bill are appropriate and also preserve the necessary protection for tenderers. We also support the amendments, including the addition to Article 7, which states that sanctions, both as regards the imposition of a fine, the determination of an authorised person and the amount of the amounts, have been ineffective since the financial penalties of the past were ridiculously low. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u17	Thank you very much, Mr. Horvath. The position of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by Mr Cyril Testen.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u18	Thank you for your word. Honourable Vice-President, honourable Members and Members of the Government! In recent years, we have often found that the law on the revision of public procurement procedures is flawed. In our opinion, it favoured the tenderers in particular and allowed them to delay the execution of public contracts unpunished by complaints. The amendment of the law gives the State Audit Board more effective options for action when the tenderer resorts to audit requests with the aim of delaying the procurement process. There have been many cases in the past in the domestic market and also in drawing funds from European funds when the order was not implemented due to the revision. In New Slovenia, we fully support the proposal for a law on the revision of public procurement procedures because we are confident that it will improve the efficiency of public procurement. One major change, in our view, is that with the adoption of the law, the State Audit Commission will also become a criminal body which will also impose penalties in respect of the offences found. This is, in our Group's view, meaningful because we are convinced that the State Audit Commission is the body that knows the individual parts of the public procurement best. In our view, it is particularly questionable whether the State Audit Commission has qualified staff who will also manage this part of the mandate. The criteria for lodging audit applications shall be tightened. According to the proposal, the applicant must demonstrate the likelihood of injury. This amendment is useful because it will undoubtedly limit the number of complaints. It is also important that the President of the State Audit Commission be given the opportunity to decide that the audit procedure does not hold back further public procurement activities. This is particularly important in those projects, as we have heard several times in today's debate on European resource drawdown, as well as in some domestic contracts. It is also often the case with us that, according to the tenderers, the tendering conditions are written on the skin of individual tenderers. This is difficult to determine, but if it is detectable, it makes sense for the complaint to be made as soon as possible. The State Audit Commission has to respond in the process to all the obvious, and this is mainly because the contracting authority can then normally, without fear of possible lawsuits, execute the order. An important novelty is also that the State Audit Commission has to deliver all its decisions to the Attorney General, and later knowledge would delay the proceedings in the event of disputes, but it is true that this will burden the State Prosecutor's Office further. In short, in New Slovenia we support changes in the law, because we believe that they will contribute to the improvement of the situation, we also support all amendments of the parent working body. Thanks for listening.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u19	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Janc to present the position of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues. In the Slovenian People's Party, we support the amendment of the law, because we believe that many administrative obstacles need to be assessed that make it difficult to draw funds from European funds and in general to implement public procurement. This is mainly a matter of time-consuming delays in the procurement process. We believe that by amending the law we would accelerate the procedures for procurement and the implementation of individual projects that have so far been delayed. It is estimated that the proposed changes are necessary and to reduce the number of those who complain about the implementation of the procurement procedure, as well as many times from speculative purposes or means of abuse, which strongly delays the execution of the procedures by the tenderers. The Commission of the National Assembly for Budgetary Control and Other Public Finances or Mother Labour, together with the legal and legislative services and government representatives, has found appropriate amendments or harmonisations of amendments to the law and has unanimously supported them, and we do not see any specific reservations in the Slovenian People's Party that we do not adopt a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the revision of public procurement procedures. All those who face these procedures in practice in one way or another, we understand these corrections even more in favour of all because the complaints have already become a standing point of public procurement. The Slovenian People's Party proposes to the National Assembly to adopt amendments to the law, thereby allowing for rational consumption and, in particular, easier procedures for the implementation of the law on the revision of procedures of a public nature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Mr Sašo Pece has the floor to present the position of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u22	Ladies and gentlemen of the court! At the beginning of today's point, the representative of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group requested a postponement of 20 minutes, so much so that we get a report, which we estimate is right, given that according to the quota applicable on the basis of the rules of procedure and the agreement adopted in college, unfortunately does not belong to membership, that active membership, that is, full membership in the home working body, that is to say, to the budgetary control commission. From this point of view, I would like to point out that we have also received 11,35 following this urgent procedure, which means 14 minutes ago, which is why I will not be able to identify myself in the opening speech to the proposed amendments coming from the parties or to the supplementary proposal. I would like to highlight some of the things in the basic law or some commendations and some of the questions that we would like the applicant to submit to us, that is, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, until the end of the discussion. First time. We agree with the fact that the adoption of the law could help to facilitate the absorption of funds, in particular in the form of simplification of the system and thus, of course, the effectiveness of drawing on funds. On the other hand, a speech in the Rapporteur of the National Assembly, where the basic version or basic proposal of the law is also defined as the objective, principle and principal solution of the proposed law being marked by rationalisation, which we fully agree with within the framework of the parliamentary group. However, they would point out Article 9 of the draft law, where the proposer speaks or seeks to simplify the procedure, make it cheaper and shorter by prescribing new requirements for the applicant, i.e. an individual proposal to revise the individual public procedure, either in two forms or in the fulfilment of two categories. First of all, I quote, "The interest in awarding an order." Secondly: "The real rate is likely to cause him harm due to alleged irregularities in the procedure." From this place I have to ask the proposers of the material - what is the real rate of probability, who will determine this real rate probably? For the fact is that the proposal that we have before us is indeed reducing time, perhaps even simplifying procedures on the one hand, but on the other hand it is necessary to ask, what if it is unfair to someone who is trying to introduce a revision of a particular procedure. For, the fact is that, with these two arguments, as the government is at this point in time, we are reducing the circle of those who will be able to request an audit; and if we are already reducing, then at least in these elements let us write clearly enough that this will not depend on - in the terms of course - "some government official". The fact is that even later, in the text of the articles, paragraph 9 itself, the second article of the amendment of the text of the law, does not say anywhere what a real degree of probability is. According to our assessment, that is to say, according to the Slovenian National Party's assessment, it is too much of a possibility for someone, based on their own decision - we are talking about a lot of valuable business - to determine what a real level of probability is. Here I would ask for an answer or for criteria that determine this real level of probability. However, we fear that, as long as such content of the law remains in this Article 9 or in the new article, there might be, and I do not wish to be blacklisted, but rather abuse of the right to order an audit. We therefore welcome the public interest institutions in paragraph 9 below to add a new institution, as well as to hold the theory in paragraph 3 in order to reduce the possibility of delaying procurement procedures by adopting that law. Yes, but it is necessary to ask yourself at what price - or at the cost of having fewer people be able to carry out the audit procedure? If this is the price, then I do not believe that this price is an appropriate time in which we live, so where we are trying to give everyone who appears on the market equal opportunities and, of course, I am referring again to the two criteria proposed by the proposer in the basic second article of the text. We also, of course, welcome only the assessment in paragraphs 4 and 5 and in points 3 and 4 of the rapporteur of the National Assembly. However, as far as I have said in the introduction to the presentation of the position of the Slovenian National Party Group, in individual amendments, which, as far as I have been able to look at them in 10 minutes, do not significantly affect the opinion already received by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, we will decide when the vote is taken. Unfortunately, this time it has come to an end, mainly because you do not allow us to have an active member in the said working body, it has led us to believe that the final position on the individual amendments of the Slovenian National Party cannot be told. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u23	Thank you very much. May my colleague Vice-President Peca, as well as your colleague Zagorac, allow me to refresh your memory a little bit about the business provisions. The general debate is still under way and, as we know, the general debate concerns the principles, objectives and main solutions to the law. Once this debate is concluded, we will move on to a decision on individual articles and amendments and, of course, it will be possible to request the suspension of the sitting for an additional period of time. Procedural, sir? Replicas, as I know, are not good, procedural, Mr Pache.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u24	Mr Pavliha, you can try to ignore or hide the fact in any way, but the fact is that none of the six Members of the Committee are members of the Slovenian National Party. This is due mainly to the rules you introduced in this house in the previous term. On the other hand, I would like to draw attention to the fact that others from your client, as usual, always from the LDS, are advertised, that the difference is to be an observer on the working body or to have a voting right in the framework of active membership.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u25	Mr. Pache, procedurally, where is the violation of the rules of procedure?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u26	It's broken because, in my opinion, in part, or today in a very nice way, you're deceiving. However, I also think that you must admit that the National Party, unfortunately, does not have a member in this parental body or just the working body.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u27	Yeah, that's a fact, obviously, but I don't see any connection to the rules of procedure. Mr. Squeakle, are you procedural too?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u28	Procedurally, Mr. Vice President. Nevertheless, I hope that we will address the content of the law. However, I propose that you explain in a procedural manner how this membership is in the Committee on Budgetary Control and other public finances. It's procedural. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u29	No, that's not the topic of today's treatment. We continue the debate. That is, the last rapporteur is Mr Willi Rezman, who will present the DeSUS position.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u30	Thank you very much. It is more noticeable that procedural duells encourage more interest between Members and Members than in the views of the groups of Members. I have previously observed how these positions were represented by individual representatives, but I have not noticed many of those Members and Members who would be interested. Therefore, perhaps the best form of these performances will be short. However, we must also define our position, the position of the DeSUS Group, in short, by saying that we support this change of law. That we also support, at least so it shows, the amendments, which were still warmly delivered into our hands, because the fast flight indicates that they will be supported in the debate. The public interest or interest in the public must not be demonstrated by changes in laws, but reports, major scandals, and the resulting damage, are talking about, and it is commendable that the government has done so. We support this mainly because it is a matter of protecting both the public interest and the interests of the contracting authorities and the interests of the tenderers. As a result, we hope that this will bring better benefits to the resources mentioned today and less embarrassment to the implementation of individual projects. Therefore, the DeSUS Group will support this because it considers that this is in our common interest, that it is in favour of those who offer their services, and also those who must be protected from the potential abuses of the audit procedures that have occurred now.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u31	Thank you so much for all the presentations. We are done with this presentation of our views and with the first reading. We're moving to second reading. I ask, does anyone want to table an amendment, and if the answer is positive, how long does it take to do so? [[Nobody.]] As no amendments could be tabled or tabled in the supplementary proposal, no third reading of the amendments could be tabled. That's why we're moving on to a decision on the law. I'm informing you that I'm not notified by the legislature or the government that the law would be systematically inconsistent. I ask, does anyone want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? [[Nobody.]] Does anyone want to explain his voice in his own name? [[No one, either.]] And we vote. The vote is under way. Thank you very much. I note that 55 Members and Members were present. 54 votes in favour [[...]] [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] [[...]] [[A voice in the background.]] Wasn't there a voting device? [[...]] [[...]] [[A voice in the background.]] He's working now? [[...]] Good. The vote was valid and closed. I understand that the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. And I'm moving on to 16. Agenda item - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Access to Information of Public Meaning - urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and I give the floor to its representative for further explanations. I understand the representative is on his way. Mr. Perenič, would you like an additional explanation? Secondly, I would expect accuracy from the executive branch. So the Minister is coming, and I'm only going to allow this delay. If not, we will continue the debate next time. Mr Perenič, given that you are here and that you are the Secretary of State, I suggest that you begin with the explanation and then the Minister will proceed. I think it's fair for the National Assembly not to see MPs and Members in the air. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u32	Well, then, hello. Allow me to begin because of this momentary delay of the minister. The government has proposed this law, a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on access to information of a public nature for two reasons in particular. The first reason which also requires an urgent procedure is to comply with the European Directive on the re-use of information of a public nature. The law thus far regulated access to information, i.e. openness and transparency of the administration. According to Slovenia and other countries, public sector information can also be an important basis for the development of a knowledge society, for the provision of services, for the provision of content. Therefore, public sector information is interesting not only in terms of control over the functioning of the public sector, but also in terms of the re-use of this information. Therefore, this re-use is regulated in the law, which allows for the re-use of all, under equal conditions and in an equal manner, and we are in line with the European legal order. The Directive, however, requires this alignment from us with 1 July of this year, and therefore also the reason for the urgent procedure. The second reason for adopting this bill is that we want to open up information in the public sector more than ever before, to ensure even more openness and transparency in the public sector, to introduce a so-called public interest test, thus reducing exceptions even further. The present law already knew the principle that all information is freely available, except for those excluded from this regime, such as personal data, state secrets, business secrets. With the changes that are before you today, however, we suggest that these exceptions be further restricted and that the public administration be even more open. The other proposed amendments to the law relate mainly to the more effective application of the law, both from the point of view of the applicants and from the point of view of the authorities, and are therefore minor changes demonstrated by the two-year practice of the application of the law. The proposal therefore has two main objectives: to regulate in the same and appropriate European way the re-use of information and to further open up the whole public sector not only to the public administration, but to the whole public sector, that is to say to the public authorities, the municipal authorities, the public service providers, the public authorities, the public authorities and the public authorities, the public authorities, the public authorities, the public authorities, the public authorities, the public authorities, the public authorities, and all those in the public money sector who carry out any public service tasks in the public sector, so as to allow for wide-ranging supervision and very wide transparency of the public sector, which Slovenia would, if adopted today, be classified among the countries, certainly among the ten countries in the world where this transparency is the most widespread, because both for the general public sector and on the other hand, these exceptions to free access are very limited, so that access is actually possible to all information, except where access rights to access are against the other human rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u33	Thank you very much. In the meantime, Mr Minister has joined us. Explanation, we started the debate because it is not normal for the National Assembly to wait for ministers or secretaries of state. Mr. Minister, would you like to add something to your colleague? Thank you very much. Then I invite Madam President of the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice, Mojco Kucler Dolinar, to present the report of the Committee, which has also addressed this bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u34	Thank you, Chairman. Nice greetings to the Minister and Secretary of State, and I know you! The Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice, at its 8th urgent meeting as a working body, considered the draft law amending and supplementing the law on access to information of a public nature. The College of the President of the National Assembly decided at its 25th regular session that the draft law should be considered on an urgent basis. In its supplementary explanation, the representative stressed that the main objective of the proposal is to improve the implementation of the guaranteed right of access to information of a public nature in the Constitution and to ensure, in accordance with the European legal order, the equal right to re-commercial or non-commercial use of information of a public nature. The fact is that without the free exchange of information a true democracy cannot exist, members of a democratic society can make the right decisions only when they are properly informed or have all the relevant information at their disposal. The proposed law also preserves the principles of free access to information of a public nature and lays down exceptions for denying access and regulates legal protection in cases where the authority refuses access to the information requested. The Law and Law Service has drawn up specific comments and alerts to individual legal provisions, most of which relate to the need for greater precision of the text of each legal provision and to the need for further examination of the whole definition of information of a public nature. The meeting was also invited by the Commissioner for Access to Public Information, who stressed that the proposal for a law was extremely important for the transparency of the public sector. This is by no means critical of the law already in force, but within two years of its entry into force, it has shown that certain changes are absolutely necessary. The representative of the Slovenian Society of Journalists stressed that a month ago, coordination was held at the Ministry of Public Administration on the content of the proposal for a law, and at that time the company also formulated some comments which were forwarded to the Committee in the form of amendments to certain legal provisions. Part of the comments were taken into account and incorporated into the legal text and part of the comments submitted by the company to the Committee in the amendment form concerns concerns the appropriateness of the individual definitions. A representative of the State Council attended the meeting, who briefly presented some of the points in their written opinion, as well as a representative of the Peace Institute, who highlighted the Institute's comment on Article 32 of the bill. The task of informing the public of the manner and conditions of access to information of a public nature and of advising legal and natural persons on the exercise of rights under law is, in its opinion, essential for the implementation of the law, and therefore a wide range of operators need to be provided for the successful implementation of the law. The debate on individual articles and amendments to the draft law mainly raised the issue of the basic relationship between access to public information and the re-use of public information. Some discussers felt that this issue was not well settled and the second part considered that this relationship was well regulated and followed by Directive 2003/98. In particular, those who felt otherwise have been told that it is essentially a matter of narrowing free access to information deemed to be intended for re-use. However, they followed the common position that the law in force needed to be amended and supplemented where it did not work well, but that its basic intention needed to be maintained. He gave the relevant answers and explained the representative of the applicant to the essential comments and dilemmas. In particular, he stressed that the proposed amendment sought to implement the EU Directive on the conditions for the re-use of public information in July. The fact is that the European Directive does not want to interfere with the regime of access to information of a public nature, but deals only with the competitiveness of operators using this information again. Thus, in the context of the debate and the vote on the amendments, the Committee adopted an amendment to Article 8 of the Liberal Democracy Club. He didn't support the other amendments. The amendment of Mr Rudolph Mojet to Article 5 has become irrelevant as the amendment of the Committee has already been incorporated into the framework of the amendments. Thus, all the amendments are also an integral part of the report that the Members have received.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u35	Thank you very much for presenting the report of your mother's working body. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Member of Parliament, Dr Pavel Gantar, who will present the position of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, Mr Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In the LDS, we were pleased to see amendments and amendments to the law on the accessibility of information of a public nature, as we are also assessing that after two years of operation, this law needs to be complemented and amended and upgraded. Unfortunately, the proposal in most of these changes, which are proposed, has disappointed us. We were also disappointed by the fact that the government has sent the law to Parliament by emergency procedure, which is justified by the requirement to harmonise with the European Union Directive, which we do not think is exactly the case. In the case of RTV, the government agreed to a normal procedure, and even if it agreed to a normal procedure, it would be better for all of us and for an important and serious debate on this law. It is important to know, indeed, when we discuss the amendments and additions to this law, that the public sector actually has the full number of information, data, analyses, studies and so on paid by taxpayers. And if we open these data, information, studies, analyses for everyone else, we will, of course, allow them to be reused in different ways: knowledge, information and also commercial use. In this way we will also allow economic growth, free access to information and their re-use is in fact one of the fastest growing information society industries. The example that we have mentioned from the United States is that in the United States, for example, the databases of meteorological services are freely accessible, so the insurance industry is booming in terms of weather conditions. In some European countries these bases are closed and therefore there is no insurance industry. And so on. A number of these reasons could be cited. The existing Slovenian law adheres to American law and regulations in some Scandinavian countries. In our view, however, the proposal for amendments goes back a step and the reference to the directive introduces the payment of the re-use of information of a public nature for commercial purposes. Article 15 introduces a verification of the purpose of the use of information of a public nature, which is absolutely unnecessary and could be said to be inconsistent with the principles of the law. He's instituting punishment for, say, "wrong use." And in Article 4, it introduces the possibility of exclusive use of information of a public nature in a particular case. In short, Slovenia is, as far as this law is concerned, on a new path back. Does the colleagues and colleagues, indeed Directive 2003/98 EC, in fact require payment and thus harmonisation of Slovenia? The Directive was designed to legalise the minimum harmonisation of the practice of the Member States of the European Union and to prevent obvious anomalies in the re-use of public information in certain Member States. The Directive does not even contain a commitment for Member States to allow the re-use of information of a public nature, unless otherwise permitted. However, if they allow access and re-use, they require that the provisions of the Directive relating to fair charging of costs where costs are charged, transparency and licensing where they exist. The Directive, in Article 6, which deals with the principle of charging re-use, makes it very clear that "where use is charged" or in English "where use is made", that is, "where use is charged, the charge should not exceed the costs of collection, production and reproduction" and so on. Therefore, the directive does not require charging the re-use of public information, but only says where it is already being done, that the charging be fair and moderate. The Commission even encourages members to charge as little or even nothing as possible. The Directive is therefore only an excuse for charging, for a different concept of the country in relation to the business council. We could simply decide not to charge the re-use, even for commercial purposes, and this would be the right arrangement. [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] As the Slovenian law is broader, they would suggest that Article 4 of the current law simply spell out the position or dictatorship that information of a public nature under Article 4 of the Act is also considered to be information which applicants may use for profitable and non-profit purposes. This would actually harmonise with the directive. Why is there no need for payment? Just a few more seconds. [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] I'm going to compare it to an industrial and information society. Industrial society is based on limited resources and information society is based on unlimited sources. One and the same tonne of coal can be used and roasted only [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u37	Dr. Gantar, time's up, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u38	Right away, Mr. Vice President. So, one and the same ton of coal can only be roasted in one oven. One and the same information can be used in thousands of ways and will still remain for reuse in thousands of other ways. And it follows that there is no need for this information to be paid, so we will not support this law. The rest will be presented in explanation of the amendments. Thank you very much. Excuse me for 42 seconds.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u39	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mr Miran Potræ, who will present the position of the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Members of the Social Democrats will be supported by the proposed law. In doing so, we stress the following. The Act on Access to Public Information has already been drafted in the previous government and has been in force since March 2003, says good two years. By providing the public with information from state and other authorities, it has contributed to greater control over their operation and especially to the use of public funds, which can all be an important element of democracy and the rule of law, as well as an important contribution to the detection of clientism and corruption. There is no doubt that the authorities tend to conceal information, since information is often its most powerful tool not only for making decisions but also for manipulating people. That is also often the case with the current government. The Government or its Nationality Affairs Office, without our explicit demands for a long time, have not been prepared to publish studies of the Institute for Nationality Affairs on the situation and rights of the peoples of the former Yugoslavia. In recent times, we have been similarly affected by a study commissioned by the government regarding the drafting of the State Holidays Act, which so far is for completely incomprehensible reasons because there is really nothing in it, she did not want to publish it publicly. In both cases, as a parliamentary group, we have requested the government and in the first publication case, we have also succeeded. In addition to retaining the information, the second case caused the Government's unacceptable behaviour towards information to different media and, later, its legitimate derogation. I am talking about showing and telling how one principled government policy is, and the other is concrete behaviour when it comes to specific interests. And that's why every detail in this marriage is still important. Therefore, it shows that after two years of its implementation, the law also re-evaluates and complements, partly because of the new directives. The proposals prepared are, I must say, also according to the evaluation of the profession, the society of journalists of Slovenia and the public information authorities, generally good, since they provide additional access to information of a public nature. It is true, however, that there are also some solutions in the proposals that could be better and whose content may also allow for a different assessment. For this reason, Members and Members of the Social Democrats agree with the warnings that, in the event of re-use for commercial purposes and the inability to assess, under the envisaged procedure, whether the disclosure of certain classified information to the public may not be an advantage over the meaning of its protection, despite the other declared objectives, a decrease in the availability of information. And it was on these issues that a thorough discussion took place on the working body. The Government did not support the proposal, which would indisputably further increase the accessibility of information of a public nature. We supported them in the parliamentary group or in the presence of Members and Members of the Social Democrats, and the government did not support the proposals for non-payment of the request for the re-use of information and for the deadlines in which extradition procedures and the completion of the procedure in the event of a rejection should be completed without doubt. Some issues, therefore, remain unclear despite progress in the law and are not of benefit to the wider public. These issues will need to be monitored in particular and seen how fully justified they are to ensure the full extent of the effects that accessibility to information of a public nature for the enforcement of democracy and the rule of law brings and ensures.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u41	Thank you very much, Mr. Potch. Ms Mojca Kucler Dolinar has the floor to present the position of New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u42	The law in force adopted in 2003 became the exercise of the constitutionally protected human right to obtain information of a public nature systematically regulated. 39. Article 39 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia provides insight into the functioning of the State and thus builds one of the foundations of democracy. When considering the draft law, we think it is extremely important that the proposed amendments and additions do not interfere with the basic principles of the regulation so far. The principle that information of a public nature may be obtained by anyone who so requests is maintained. Slovenia is also one of those European countries that does not have access to such information subject to the exercise of legal interest. These principles are fundamental, although in practice there is still a principle that everything that is not explicitly defined as accessible is not available. Therefore, an important interpretation of the bill proposal and the solution whereby the catalogue of public information authorities will only provide information on more accessibility will also contribute to better transparency as it will be linked to the business register and will be continuously updated. Better accessibility and transparency of the functioning of the bodies will also help to legitimise the so-called public interest, a public interest test whose use in specific cases relativises the absolute exception to access to certain information so far. It will also be possible to exercise the right of the public to know, for example, the corrupt and other crimes of high-level individuals who have now been subject to the protection of personal data. In this regard, perhaps the role of the Aarhus Conventions, whose implementation in our legal order has brought such a new approach to the assessment of so far untouchable data, is understated. Its importance is largely from the point of view of environmental protection, since environmental information of a public nature is not subject to any exception under the law on access to public information as absolute. Awareness of, for example, emissions or waste is of general interest. The next positive change is free access. Some controversy has arisen in the debate so far with regard to the charging of re-use costs, but it is crucial that the data to be used for profitable purposes be used and therefore it would not be appropriate for the re-access to them to burden all taxpayers. In the New Slovenia Group, we will support the adoption of the law because we believe it will also contribute to raising a rather low awareness of the importance of the accessibility and obligations of the authorities. This was also pointed out by the Commissioner for Access to Public Information. The content of the law under consideration is also closely linked to the laws governing public records and to the law on classified information in preparation. The Information Commissioner Act is also expected to contribute to the coherence of those areas, which the Government is expected to present and send for consideration in a short time. At the same time, in the case of New Slovenia, it is also crucial that the relationship between individual laws be precisely established, that their application would not lead to legal voids on the one hand, but to conflict. Thus, apart from the justified exceptions, anything that could be defined for information of a public nature will be really accessible, so the Members of New Slovenia will support the proposed law.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u43	Thank you very much. I invite my fellow Member, Mr Kangler, to present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u44	Thank you for your word. Dear Members and Members. Also in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will support the Act amending and supplementing the Act on Access to Public Information. We are pleased to note in the parliamentary group that the government, the real Ministry of Public Administration, has prepared a thorough and good law. In particular, the proposal for a law follows the requirements laid down in the provisions of Directive 2003/28EC concerning the re-use of information of a public nature to be incorporated into national law by 1 July at the latest. In addition, the proposed amendment introduced a so-called public interest test, which we consider to be very important in the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party mainly because it allows for even greater openness of the public sector. The amendments also refer to the findings of practice and are prepared in a more rational and clearer way, irrespective of the procedures, the transmission of information and the catalogue of information. This will enable people not only to have the right to access and to re-use public information, but also to use this right as easily as possible and thus to obtain the information they want as easily as possible. I would also like to point out that we also welcome the fact that the government will shortly also draw up an Information Officer Act to bring together supervisory authorities for the protection of personal data and for information of a public nature and thus follow the modern trend in the European Union. Just as we supported some of the amendments on the government's working body or the parent's working body, we will also support this law in its entirety.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u45	Thank you very much. It is up to Mr Boštjan Zagorac to present the position of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u46	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Your Honors are here! We have before us changes and additions to the Act on Access to Public Information, which is directed by the European Union through its directives. Where the European Union directives for Slovenia are good, we do not want to implement them. That's the government's first eyewitness. I am speaking on the basis of what one of the ministers of this government said when it came to the maximum working time directive and he said, "We will no longer implement such directives into Slovenian legislation." I would like to point out this because, at the time of the adoption of this law, both in the presentation and in the working body and in the college, when it comes to the urgent procedure, it has been most often stressed that the law before us is only for this reason and, in particular, because the European Union requires us to do so. At the beginning of the amendments to the law itself, it is also necessary to stress the disagreement of the Slovenian National Party that the government is in the process of drafting the laws proposed to this National Assembly for adoption, because, in our opinion, it is completely unrealistic, since we mostly adopt laws by emergency procedures, and we have repeatedly stressed in the Slovenian National Party that this is an unsettling relation to the laws adopted by this National Assembly. I hope that this will not be a practice in the future, because it is simply impossible to take a serious approach to the treatment of a law, even if it is important, like this law, if you are always under pressure and pressure of time. The bill before us is very important for the transparent functioning of the public sector, and this also makes the urgent procedure interesting, strange or perhaps even ridiculous. How important the transparent functioning of the public sector is, we can also be sure of the recent time when, through the institution of access to public information, such and different irregularities occur on the day of such an irregularity in certain areas of the public sector, as well as in individual ministries of the past time. After two years of implementation of the applicable law, we are also convinced in the Slovenian National Party that changes are necessary. The key novelty proposed by the law is the introduction of a so-called public interest test to determine whether, in the public interest of individual information, the protection of specific data prevails. It should be noted that the legal definition of this test is very loose and very undeclared. We agree that access to public information must always be assessed from case to case, and the law also allows for the possibility that public interest can also prevail in the opposite direction so that certain information is not disclosed. It is precisely because of this fact that it can be justified, at least in the light of the experience we have from the past, that we fear that the test will be applied when it is in the individual's interest. However, a worrying fact brought about by the law is that, although the College of this National Assembly has been mentioned as a failure of journalists or those who have given this information to the media to increase the powers of the government to decide what information is public without carrying out the test, which will enable the government to not disclose individual information until there has been a change in the elections, as we have now been able to do. Once again, when we adopt this law, the urgency of the procedure must be stressed. Once again, we express the hope that the government will no longer be preparing such important laws in the future under urgent procedures, because it is very difficult for all of us Members of the National Assembly, under pressure from time to time, to review, prepare and prepare appropriate supplements, if necessary. Given the importance of the law and the importance of access to public information in this country in the Slovenian National Party, we will not oppose the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr Rezman has the floor to present the position of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u48	Thank you very much. So far, it has been noted that we do not all have the same attitude towards this proposal. Some of us are assessing the draft amendments to the law in a positive direction, while some others feel that they are going back to the worse. It is likely that everyone has justifiable reasons for these judgments, but the DeSUS Group that the law as a whole is worthy of support, but it can be a different attitude towards individual proposals that have been presented and argued. I must also say that I have an ambivalent attitude in certain areas. But some basic facts do speak for change. The first fact is that the law is relatively new, but it has made an important contribution to changing attitudes towards public information, and the media have also helped to do so, which is likely to be a reflection on the future. Another important conclusion is that the law also showed a whole type of weakness. It's right to admit them and try to fix them. If we counted correctly, only 12 of the 43 articles of the Law remained unchanged. So almost everything is changed or proposed for change. The next fact to be mentioned is that we have had the opportunity to read a number of opinions, a number of comments from very different actors, for whom I believe they have taken these proposed amendments seriously and have contributed, not for political reasons, but for professional reasons. Some views and comments were adopted, some not. If possible, I would also support one of those positions or amendments that did not receive a transitional assessment on the home committee. In particular, attention is drawn to a number of key themes. Firstly, the announced merger of functions that speak of the protection of personal data and access to information of a public nature, where I cannot say that I could unanimously support this as the best solution. The public opinion test seems to me to be the right solution, but I also think it is a good offer by the LDS to complement this in such a way that those who are not directly related to this can also give their expert opinion on the appropriateness of the solution. We support the payment of the re-use of information for a very simple reason. If we play a little mind-blowing, there could be a case where someone by applying for a public invitation to tender acquires substantial public funds, a free database of information, this is equipped with a beautiful text and sold for decent money. This would not seem to be the right solution, and therefore we support it in the first place. We would also support the public authority of NGOs. We do not see the real reason why they should not be drawn to inform and advise in this area, why this should be reserved only for us or only for government institutions. If we were given the right public authority, I think we would be able to do it properly. Also with regard to access to information from all those using public funds, it should be said that it is right for people to have access to this information. There is no real reason why information relating to political parties or to individuals and other persons who spend public funds should be withdrawn from public access. Again, with regard to deadlines, at least those we have to prepare in municipal administrations, [[End warning sign]] Different information, we get to the physical mystery when sometimes it just doesn't work. And an excessive reduction in deadlines might not be the best either. Since it has already rang, let me once again say that the DeSUS Group will support the law. In the debate, however, we will see whether we will also support all the amendments that have been proposed or not.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u49	Thank you very much. He will be the last to present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mr Member Mitja Ljubeljšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u50	Thank you for your word. Honorable House, Honourable Minister, Honourable Secretary of State! The essence of democracy is reflected in the right to look at the functioning of state bodies and thereby to control their functioning. The Constitution guarantees everyone the right to obtain information of a public nature. The basic law on access to information of a public nature adopted complemented one fundamental constitutional right with legal matter. However, the proposed amendments and amendments to the law further open the public sector. The first reason for amending the law, which also requires an urgent procedure, is to comply with the European Directive on the re-use of public information, a directive which Slovenia is obliged to harmonise by 1 July of this year at the latest. The second reason is that by introducing a so-called public interest test and a harmful test that relativises certain exceptions to the principle of free access to information of a public nature, Slovenia will be classified among countries with the widest degree of transparency and openness of the public sector. The third set includes changes relating to the findings of practice. With changes in the law, some things will be more rational. The provisions of the communication procedure, the provisions on the catalogue of information, will be clearer, thereby allowing people the right to access and re-use public information. It will be easier to identify the information available to the public sector as easily as possible to obtain information to at the same time relieve the public sector of unnecessary burdens, in short, in order to facilitate the implementation of this law by both parties. For this reason, our parliamentary group strongly supports the proposed amendment and amendment of the law. At the meeting of the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice, some amendments were adopted to the bill proposal, supported by our Group of Members, as the proposed law is even better by their adoption. A comparison of the regulation of the topic under consideration in European and other legal systems has shown that the basic solutions to access to information of a public nature are completely comparable and thus consistent with our regulation. Free access to information of a public nature may be restricted only in the law in tax-specific cases. One of the fundamental principles of legislation in these legal systems is the principle of free access to information of a public nature. Since the proposal for a law in our opinion has several positive effects, the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group will also support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u51	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a second reading, which is to discuss individual amendments and articles of the amended bill. Let me say that at this stage, of course, both government representatives can also be involved in the debate. You have received an overview of the amendments tabled in order to warn you that this review should be completed. By Article 13, the four parliamentary groups had tabled an amendment and, to Article 16, the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia had tabled another amendment or amendment, amended its first amendment, the word "and" being changed to "or" in the fourth paragraph. That's all on the bench. I am putting to the debate the fifth article and the amendment of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Who wants a word? Dr. Gantar, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u52	Thank you. On behalf of the Club, I would like to explain the amendment to Article 5 which we have tabled. It is Article 5 which governs, that the exceptions contained in Article 6 of this Law may be said. Firstly, we propose to add some text to point 1 of paragraph 1 to make the information defined as secrets more precise for reasons of public security, the defence of the State, the confidentiality of international relations and so on, more precisely indicating which classified information is concerned, so that no one else would accidentally attach anything to this concept of secrecy. We suggest that this is a tax ruling. The proposal by the proposer is not wrong either, it is purely good, but this one is more specific, more taxive, that there would be no misunderstanding. This is essentially a more direct statement and, at the same time, we could say, a more beautiful correction, which is not so fatal, but it is important and I think it would make sense to accept it. The second part of the amendment, however, states that the first indent of the second paragraph of this Article shall be deleted. The second paragraph states that the public interest test shall not be carried out in indents one, two, three, four and five, and we propose that indent one be deleted. In fact, this indent states that a public interest test is not carried out for data which, in accordance with the law governing classified data, is marked by a maximum of two levels of confidentiality. Well, we think that's bad. For the first time, because there will be a change in the conduct of confidentiality labelling. Officials, as well as their bosses, must not be exempt, of course, will strive to try to label documents with a higher degree of secrecy and confidentiality than would be necessary and meaningful. This is to a certain extent, at least I have observed or observed, already happening and perhaps the law on classified information should also be amended. That's gonna have a bad effect on that. If they want to avoid a public interest test, they'll raise their level of secrecy. It is true that the Committee, at the proposal of the proposer, corrected the matter by paragraph 4, but that the withdrawal of secrecy relates only to the fact that something is wrong and so on. That's better than nothing, but it's not good enough. We certainly believe that this amendment goes from the first indent to the worst, in the sense that even then the Commissioners - these are some legal opinions - deny the possibility of even going into decisions relating to the issue of information which is classified and even prevent it from allowing so-called partial access and so on. In short, if we want to implement a public interest test - I have a lot of concerns and fears, maybe some groundless ones, I hope you will convince me - of course I am for a public interest test. And if we want to have a test of public interest irreversibly or as good as possible, then we have to delete this first indent. And that's what we're proposing. For it is a test of public interest that must be carried out. A test of public interest must be carried out where the level of confidentiality is the highest, not least, and is also intended for that purpose. However, if the first two levels, the highest, are eliminated, we have thereby handicapped a public interest test, despite the improvement that I recognise, which the applicants have made by requiring the withdrawal of confidentiality under the procedure referred to in Article 21 of the Law and so on. This is an improvement, but this improvement is again left to those who decide. We therefore propose that this indent be deleted and our amendment adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u54	Thank you very much. As far as the first part of the amendment is concerned, it is more of a nomotechnic nature and in our firm conviction it is not necessary, because in this part of the law refers to another law that can change, and it makes no sense to fully sum up the regulation of that law. As for the second part, the argument given by Dr. Gantar is somewhat contradictory. On the one hand, you say that because of this exception, the leaders or officials will be inclined to set higher levels of secrecy under the law on classified information, and then you will find that we have incorporated a guardian against such manipulations into the law. That's what it's been like so far. According to the current text of the Act on Access to Public Information, it has been possible to allocate a level of confidentiality higher than the Secret Data Act provides without the possibility of preventing those wishing to access or access information. It is now the first time that this change introduces the possibility that someone, the applicant, the beneficiary of information of a public nature, should be a citizen, to be a journalist, that is, the media, may require an assessment of whether the level of secrecy is established in accordance with the law. If the chairman of the body, such as the Minister, considers that this has been properly determined, he must still prepare the decision for the government. The Government shall decide on this at its final stage and the decision of the Government shall be subject to the right of appeal to the authorising officer or authority to access information of a public nature. This is therefore a major step forward, as well as Article 5 of the amendment amending Article 6 of the basic text of the law, a major step towards opening up and transparency in the public sector. I must stress in particular that the vote against this law, the vote against the greater openness and transparency of the government, the authorities and the public sector.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Dr. Gantar, then Mr. Potch.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u56	I must respond to this position of Minister. The biggest step forward would be to simply delete the first indent. That would be the biggest step. V [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] any form of confidentiality or confidentiality that exists is permitted and permitted. [[...]] That would be the biggest step, and that's a simple story. I say it's a restriction and you know it's a restriction, so you're trying to fix it with this extra fourth paragraph, which is better than nothing, but it's still, I'd say, a correction of some restriction. I suggest you put that restriction out. At the same time, I must say that my voice will be against this law, because some things will not be accepted, a difficult voice, and I will not give it easily. Why not? Because I think it is necessary to amend the law, but I must say that this law, followed by the opinion of the legislature, Mr Minister, says that the introduction of re-use would be meaningful and meaningful only when free access is restricted. In fact, re-use in some way narrows free access. If they took the basis of the amendment's motions that the information for re-use, to say mathematically, was only a subset of a mass of information of a public nature and were subject to the same rules as all information of a public nature, they would preserve everything as it is, and we would all applaud and adopt such a law. That's the problem. The problem of free access is not only a problem of legal interpretation, but it is a problem, I could say, if you want, but now I'm going to take a look at my profession, sociological and socio-economic interpretations. This is not a matter governed by legal relations, but by relationships that are substantially broader and not only legal. Therefore, of course, my view of this article is significantly different. Once again, I warn you, the best thing to do would be to delete this indent, and in this way we will really achieve the goal you want to achieve.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr. Potch has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u58	Thank you very much. I agree that the question of supplementing point 1 in paragraph 1 is more or less a matter of drafting. However, I think that given how many things we have regulated in several laws, if this would contribute to the clarity of the text, that the reason for the fact that this is already regulated in the data confidentiality law should not be so weighty as to make it impossible for the amendment to be adopted. With regard to the deletion of the first indent of the second paragraph, I must say that Mr Gantar's findings are correct in the part where he says that they would have opened the law most if they had deleted the indent. Besides, I don't agree with him in a job that says he's restricting the law. No, for me, extend, I agree, because there was no public interest test at all before and all four levels of classified data could be limited by any public publication. There's progress in this part. However, I say that there would be even greater progress if this were also possible with regard to the first two steps. And I say that the government could do so if it trusted its own actions, because ultimately it is she who will say whether the test will refrain from protecting confidentiality as a priority against telling the public of this information. I think it would be wise for him to do that. I'm going to support such an amendment in any case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mr Minister, I suggest we give the floor to Mr Sok and then to you. Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u60	Thank you for your word. I must say that the law, as it was conceived, of course I did not study precisely, but I know what this law means to the public. Probably the longer we have a marriage, the more we are aware of what access to information of a public nature actually means. Earlier in the debate, one of the discussers said that every government, every authority, is trying to shut down before the information - most likely in itself it is true - and then it was immediately pointed to the current authority. Personally, however, I think there is an even greater problem in obtaining information of a public nature in local communities, in municipalities. There, I think, is one major problem and it will probably have to be upgraded in this area within a certain period of time, as it has now proved necessary after two years. That is why we will today, and we will gladly support this enlargement, and it will be difficult for me to understand those who say that the law, I do not know, cannot support it for a certain reason. As far as the amendment is concerned, as this first part of the amendment is concerned, it is said that the word'secret' is added 'public security', then'state defence', 'the confidentiality of international relations' and 'intelligence and security activities'. I think that in this way, access to information of a public nature is even intensified, because any information relating to public security, the defence of the state and so on cannot be kept secret. Thus, if it is assessed by a second degree of secrecy, it is classified and cannot be transmitted to the public under the law on the confidentiality of data. But if it is not so marked, then I can't imagine why any such information would actually be inaccessible to the public. And if I do a little caricature. Today in Slovenia, for example, we can find out every day, if we say in the international field, about any American soldier who has fallen or who has fallen. So it's completely open to the public. Although perhaps in America, it was in the interest of American politics or the public not to report it in any way. But the whole world, it's also said that those who are most affected by this can find out every day, and they don't hide this information. For this reason, I might be able to discuss the deletion of the first indent in the second paragraph, but of course these two matters are related and are in one amendment. For the reasons I said earlier, because this amendment brings to the public information, this amendment of the Liberal Democracy cannot be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, would you like a word?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u62	Just for a little while. This article, which is now under discussion or an amendment to this Article, is probably an essential part of the whole novel of the Public Information Access Act and is definitely putting Slovenia aside those countries which have opened their public sector to public information in the most open-ended way. It introduces a public interest test known to extremely rare countries in the world. There's a few of them. Both hands could be numbered on their fingers. So it's a big, big, step forward. The problem, which has been opened here, the problem of access to data marked with a maximum of two levels of secrecy, has so far been completely unresolved. So it was possible that these markings could be misused. I am sure that in practice it was often exaggerated with the label "secret" and "strict" or "confidential" and "strictly confidential", also because of this, it is likely that the data would not be made public. For the first time, it is possible to assess in a particular case whether this code has been attributed to any information justified or unjustifiable. So also in this segment, there is great progress and an important step forward. I would therefore like to stress once again that those who vote against this law today will vote against the essential opening of the government and the public sector.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u63	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The word is Dr. Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u64	Yeah, well, it's not about having the last word. And I also promise my colleagues and colleagues that I will not be overly advertised. But I'd still say this. First time. The first is that a public interest test, even though it is unprocessed, even though I have many concerns, I welcome, and in the final instance I would vote in favour of the law, even if it has such an unaltered public interest test. I make a secret of my opinion, I do not know, probably also the opinions of most Members and Members of the Member's Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. I believe so. What is conceptually not in your ideological verdict, the ideological judgment that those who are against the law are voting against the opening of the public sector is a problem of payment because the law is conceptual on the other hand. This will be discussed in the second article. However, once again, I stress in particular that it is true that the public interest test brings some progress and at the same time takes a step back when it eliminates by the highest degree of secrecy, the two highest levels of secrecy where the test of interest would be most necessary. But also now, if I sum up the practice of the authorising officer, someone has asked for information of a public nature and has received from the authority that this is a data which is protected, classified and so on. The matter went to the Commissioner, she looked at it, assessed it, and so on, and in large cases said it, but it's not true, it's not a secret information and she's allowed, an example of a decision like the Director of RTV about pay and so on, or she's allowed partial access to what some lawyers are afraid of. I will not judge here because I am not a lawyer, is it that the exclusion of a public interest test in the first two indents also allows the exclusion of the assessment of the eligibility of the secret code from the public authority? I hope that's not true. We may agree, and we will always interpret it so that it cannot be true and so on. I hope everyone else understands, the courts and the like. But if this becomes true, which should not be true, of course this is an even bigger problem. That's why, Minister, you get all the recognition, you've improved the article, but you've taken some step back at this point where you don't have to make it. That's why I think it makes sense to accept our amendment. As I said, some other matters relating to the law are referred to in other articles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Would anyone else like to discuss Article 5 and the LDS amendment? [[Nobody.]] That is why I am concluding the debate and moving on to a decision on the amendment. Would anyone like to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group or on behalf of others? Again, I find no one, so we are voting. I find there are 59 Members and Members present. There were 18 votes against 41. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 41.]] I note that the amendment of the LDS to Article 5 has not been adopted. We're moving on to Article 13. The amendments were tabled by four parliamentary groups: SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS. Does anyone want to discuss it? [[Nobody.]] Does anyone want to explain his voice, either on behalf of the parliamentary group or in his own name? [[Nobody.]] We vote on this amendment. Thank you very much. 61 Members and Members are present. There's 51 votes against 3. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the amendment of all four parliamentary groups to Article 13 has been adopted. We are moving on to Article 16 on the amendment tabled by the LDS as the first to be submitted by the LDS and then filed the second and carried out the correction in paragraph 4. Does anyone want to discuss this amendment? Dr. Gantar, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u66	This article, Article 21, of the basic law, Article 16 of the draft law, also refers to, inter alia, the weighing of the dominant public interest. What is our problem here is simply that the public interest test is gradually not good or is not processed at all. We believe that the weighing of public interest is decided in the final instance by those entrusted with the protection of confidentiality, saying, by the government on matters of state administration and so on. In short, if I were to make a little joke, I'd say it's about the same as trusting the sheep to protect the wolves. We believe that the new text of a certain improvement is making sense, but we also believe that it would make sense that at this level, if we cannot process otherwise, to give at least the possibility or commitment of the so-called second opinion, under the terms "second opinion", two experts, when it comes to a rejection decision. It's not complicated, it's quite simple and in a way to give this other opinion - it's better than nothing. It's not good enough yet, but it's better than nothing. What we're afraid of or I'm afraid of weighing public interest. I must admit - Mr Potts is not in the hall - perhaps my fear and some others Mr Potz has calmed down a bit on the board, but I would like to say the following. The weighting of public interest will happen "case by case". This is a practice that is relatively unknown in this legal system, at least I think. Secondly, this means that they will be able to make a completely different decision on the same matter, 'case by case'; that is also what the authorising officer said. And that's what I'm worried about. What if, in the case in question, for example - I do not mention the cases that I already have - in the case of a company applying for State aid in a public institution or for European funds and bringing a role with all confidential information and business secrets? And when the competitor finds out, he goes there and says, yeah, I demand, because this is the material of this public authority and is considered information of a public nature, let us request this document, and we will come to the business secrets of this company, our competitor. All right, they're going to say, this is protected by Article 2, paragraph 2, of the Act, business secrecy, and this is going to require a public interest test. And they'll say let's expose it because it's a public interest. The public interest can also be removed by this director, for example, greater than otherwise, "case by case", for no reason, and will satisfy and reveal the business secret. This is one of the possible cases. We don't have a security guard on this. We have to have a second opinion, if nothing else. There can be many cases at personal level. So I'll tell you, maybe I'm overreacting, you'll say, maybe I'm paranoid or whatever. I don't know. Maybe. But I'm talking about the worst possible case. The possibility of abuse of this public interest test. The possibility of revealing personal information and other matters to someone if someone wanted to, and if I didn't know how to connect, I wouldn't say anything about politics, an official doing it and so on. Or the politicians. Therefore, I warn you, if we are not already able, I must say, we have neither the time nor the will nor the government, nor why we should do this, to process the public interest test, at least minimally. At least accept this amendment, "second opinion", with a second opinion which will give the government some additional legitimacy. We'll at least be a little calm with that. In cases where there could be, we could say, the use of a public interest test for purposes which are, of course, anything other than a dominant public interest test. So I would recommend that you think about this amendment. It's very simple, we're not complicated. I think he's good and he's putting away some fears. It is true, Mr Potrč, that he is not here now, he mentioned that he is the author of this public interest test. It's calming me down. The superintendent is the court. That's what calms me down, too. And I'm happy. However, it does not reassure me that the information has been disclosed when the authorising officer, at the latest after the decision of the authorising officer, for example, and only five years from now can I know that, I don't know, they illegally owned my personal data and that they have mistakenly weighed the public interest. Or Mr. Virant. Or Mrs. Darja Lavtijar Bebler, anyone. Or a company that signed up. Therefore, I warn you, our task of the opposition is to warn you of loopholes in the legislation, just as you are when you are doing this legislation. We went very unvoluntarily. We don't want to make trouble. The public interest test, I agree with Gregor Virant, is absolutely important, he will remember how many times we have discussed this. And he will remember that this has always been our goal. And it's good that it is. Put that in there and we'll all do better. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u68	Thank you very much. With this amendment, Dr. Gantar reports two. Firstly, the Slovenian State Administration cannot be trusted enough to find in it an expert who would be able to make a decision on a somewhat more difficult legal issue. And secondly, since the state administration cannot be trusted, in any case, you need to hire external experts, pay them normally, because external experts usually do not work for free. By this logic, they could also include "second opinion" in all other procedures. See, tax procedures can also be difficult. Denationalisation can also be difficult. In the final stage, it could be possible to obtain an opinion from three experts from the Constitutional Court in each case under consideration. This is a very unusual amendment, and according to our firm conviction it is not necessary. See, the proposal will be prepared professionally and will be prepared by a resource for which information will be provided. The proposal will be decided by the government. The government has lawyers in its office, in its secretariat, who will judge and examine this case. The government will decide later. The decision of the Government will be subject to appeal against the Ombudsman or the Ombudsman for access to information of a public nature. Then we've got a court order. We have all the legal mechanisms for both cases if too much is revealed or if too little is revealed. I've also noticed right now that you're somehow fluctuating between two fears. Once we're too exposed, we're not gonna reveal too much. It is the responsibility of the government to weigh the law carefully. When there is a public interest test, they will consider what is stronger: either the interest safeguarded by the exception or the interest of the public in obtaining information. However, legitimate interest is not some kind of curiosity or some kind of voyeurism, but public interest must be specifically justified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mr. Kovacich, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u70	Thank you. Otherwise, I have already made myself known, but I will therefore be considerably shorter than I thought, given that Mr Minister has already said much why this proposed amendment is not justified. Besides, there's something else I'd like to mention. These experts, who would be some kind of over-control over the decision of the authority to decide on a public interest test, are now asking the question: Where are the criteria for who is the expert in this field who can judge this matter on a substantive or credible basis? It is very difficult to put it that way, it will be decided by experts without any more specific criteria being given. Otherwise, it would be a subjective assessment of the one who would have made the decision. That's another thing. If this amendment were to be adopted, the Authority should call the experts and ask them for an opinion, this would significantly prolong the procedure. It could also happen that such opinions would not even occur within a reasonable period of time for such or other reasons. Then, of course, the matter would stand still, go back to its original state and have an unreasonable and unnecessary extension of the whole process. This I do not think is the purpose of a law that opens up a space that opens up what the regulation has not opened so far, and in fact represents a big step towards greater and much easier access to public information. Unfortunately, the former government, which has adopted the basic law, has somehow lagged behind European trends. I think that this proposal is getting to them or even ahead of this European trend. That is why I think that this law must certainly be supported and the proposed amendment rejected, because it is not appropriate, as has already been said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mr. Gantar, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u72	I'll come by twice anyway, obviously with every article. However, I would say this if my fellow Member were aware of the state of access to information of a public nature, I would certainly know that Slovenia is here at a high level by now. But that's not something to brag about, so we can't brag about it. That's how we decided, and we made the right decision. It's mostly good for us. We could've gotten better. This law has some improvements, and we have said a few words on the committee about these improvements, and I will not talk about it because it is not necessary. There's no problem here. The problem is not whether I trust the government or not. That's not even a question. The question is trust or mistrust of the state administration at another level. It is a matter of whether, as in other matters in this state administration, the procedure for assessing, weighing the public interest is either formally or through some substantive criteria. It's not, except for the government's decision and so on. It's not. And it happens "case by case" and in similar cases it will be possible to make completely different decisions. That's a fact. We therefore propose a second opinion in the so-called Parliamentary Club. Opinion, not decision-making. I agree that an expert from the outside can't just make that decision. But that second opinion, which at least shows or reduces arbitrariness, is another opinion, which as an annex and may also be an important decision with the authorising officer at a second stage and so on. We are demanding some extremely minimalistic supplement or we are proposing that there is no "ad hoc" procedure in the group, which could be good if we went differently and so on. After all, weighing public interest, predominance of public interest is important in terms of both sides not to reveal too much or what is really not, or to reveal too much. And that's important. That there will not be a public interest test in certain situations, I do not attribute them to this government, to any government, to weighing in favour of access, but not in favour of access. I would therefore like to propose this second opinion as a proposal for this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u73	Thank you. Mr Potsch, Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u74	I support this proposal. It is true that it is a complement to a procedure which obliges the Government, under certain circumstances, to obtain an independent expert opinion from two experts, one of them from the legal profession, before the final decision on negative opinion. However, I think that this is very useful and that the well-intentioned attitude of the government towards such proposals would show that, in fact, it wants to do as much as possible in a part of the procedure where it does not reach the Commissioner or the court, because, in any case, it is being judged, so that the actual situation can be established in a way that will also persist in all proceedings. That the government's final decision will have so much professional support that it will not, in particular, be political, which it will always be, but also so much professional support that this test of public interest will show that it is of greater interest to the State to protect some secrecy rather than to be of greater interest to the public to learn about it. Contracts which try to prove here that the procedure is being stalled in this case are not correct. The procedure shall not be delayed because this procedure would otherwise be terminated, but to the detriment of the person requesting it. And it is probably a good thing that, for the benefit of the person requesting the procedure, one week or 14 days is extended, because at least there is a possibility that he may receive a positive response, or the chairman of the body has suggested that the answer should be negative. That is why I do not think it is possible to talk about stalling as regards trust in the administration and the government. Yes, in principle, by the fact that we are all human beings and that we all have our own specific interests and practices that are practical, I think that independent experts here have something to say and benefit from. However, it would be in everyone's interest to hold this test later on in both the Commissioner and the Court of Justice. I think that in the face of the work of mistrust or the desire to make a law such that we will all be sure that we do not want to close that small closed door to the public yet, so that the government can support it and the coalition can accept it.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mrs. Bebler, LDS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u76	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Of course, I support the LDS amendment, and I think Mr Gantar has already given a thorough explanation. But now that I have read this article carefully again, I have found something to ask the minister what the government has decided to do with it. This article, the second paragraph of the first indent, states that the government will decide the matter if the State Administration, the State Prosecutor's Office, is bound. I have to say this, I am very concerned at this moment about how the government has taken over this line to decide if the state's attorney is obliged. However, the position of the State Prosecutor's Office and the role in our system is different, as it is written here, and it smells a lot like the American system, where the State Prosecutor's Office does not have this role and this position with us. With us, the State Prosecutor's Office under the judiciary is also an independent and independent body, and you may have had an idea with experience in the previous term when the Attorney General refused to hand over some documents to the investigative commission. We now know that we will again have this kind of work in this National Assembly when a special investigative commission is established that directly touches the functioning of the Prosecutor's Office. Therefore, it would seem logical, as set out here in the next second indent, for the Supreme Court to decide, if the Court is bound to give a special indent, that the Attorney General decide if the State Prosecutor's Office is obliged. Besides, I think you've acquired something that the government doesn't understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr Sok, New Slovenia has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u78	Thank you very much. I am speaking again, and I would like to say a few words about the situation which, of course, this law is intended to improve. Mr Gantar previously replicated his colleague Kovacic and said, if you know what the situation in the field of public information is. I think it's good for some people, but sometimes it's bad, sometimes it's bad enough that even municipal councilmen can't get certain information, let alone a natural person. I reiterate that this information is particularly hidden in the field of local self-government, while today we have made progress with much in the field of the country. Since a colleague earlier said that this 16th article was actually conceived as a way to give a wolf to protect sheep, and I think that this proposal, which LDS makes in the opposite direction, is, when you don't know what to do, then you make an additional obstacle, you set up a commission, and this proposal with these two experts actually goes in this direction so that it can happen that the different opinions of these two experts do not lead to a solution at all. And this is in this law and in this article 16 additional bureaucracy, and for this reason we cannot agree with this amendment in New Slovenia, although it is possible that the intention of the proposer himself can make a good one, but in practice this would be a major problem. Let's just see how some of the two-member administrations work, where one member of the board blocks the other, and that could also happen in such an opinion, one legal expert would say one, the other, is saying, on the basis of this, there is no solution. And that, in our opinion, would prevent procedures more than actually make them transparent and enable rapid resolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr. Potts.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u80	By the way, I hope, Mr Sok, that the government will also object to your finding. But the fact that the opinion of two experts, even if it is different or even if it is different from that of the government, does not change that, must be the opinion. In the end, however, the government will be the one to heed or disregard. If they're different, she'll take one into account, not the other. So it is not true that a different opinion would prevent the government from making a decision. It will be better to decide if the government's opinion is then in line with the opinions of the experts. It is only the right of the government to decide otherwise.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Well, look, we in the state administration have experts who are capable of carrying out difficult intellectual work that are able to judge or draw up a position on difficult legal issues, and there is no need for them to hire external experts every single time. The government strives to hire external expertise when it cannot solve some challenging intellectual or professional problems with its resources. This will certainly not be every case of a public interest test. When we assess that it would be good and appropriate to obtain the opinion of an external expert, of course we will. This is a matter of government responsibility. If the government assesses that the professional basis is not good enough, the one created within the state administration will also call on an external expert to give his opinion, or two or three, if this is a very difficult question. If this is an extremely difficult question, it may be necessary to get three such opinions, but this is not a matter that we would write in the law and in this way commit ourselves to obtain and - let's be honest - we also pay external experts. We are trying to reduce this kind of cost to as little a limit as possible. And Mrs. Bebler's answer. While this is an issue that has not been opened in the Committee's debate and no amendments have been tabled to this effect in order to amend Article 21 as amended, Article 16 of the Amendments and Supplements Act is said. We wanted to focus our decision on the public interest test because it would be rare and difficult cases, but at several points when it comes to the judicial branch of the Supreme Court, when it comes to the local level of the public sector in the municipal world, when it comes to that part of the public sector, which is somehow under the auspices of the government, and of course it is the government. The State Prosecutor's Office is not part of the judiciary and could not be joined by the Supreme Court in this way. The State Prosecutor's Office is a party in judicial proceedings, but it is not part of the judiciary, it is not a court.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mrs. Bebler, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u84	It is clear to me how it is and in what sense the state's prosecution is not part of the judiciary. And that's why I said why the government didn't think about adding a special indent where it would be determined that the Attorney General's Office is the one who decides if the state's attorney is obliged. I cannot be satisfied with this answer because, systematically speaking, this response is completely inadequate. That is why I ask, Mr President, I am not very well-educated, but I believe that I can now announce orally that I will table this amendment, which I have just spoken about. It is said that a new indent is included which specifically excludes the prosecution. I would also like to say that, of course, my Government cannot be the one who can be very relevant when it comes to data of such a nature related, of course, to the work of the State Prosecutor's Office, which can be declared accessible or inaccessible. In my opinion, the prosecution always has that essential judgment available because it knows the procedure, because it knows what disclosure of certain data would mean for a specific procedure that is still pending before the prosecution, how this would affect the outcome of the criminal procedure itself, for example in a particular case and so on and so on. So allow me, I now announce this oral amendment, and we will, because it is very easy to put it this way, if that is the case. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u85	You may state the oral amendment, but you must also submit it in writing before it is decided. So if you have now, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u86	I would orally propose to add a new indent in the second paragraph of Article 16 to the second indent, which will read as follows: 'The Prosecutor's Office, if the State Prosecutor's Office is obliged'. The first indent of the "State Prosecutor's Office" is deleted.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Since we have a few more amendments, I would like to ask if you can make this in writing, so that we can deal with it in the end and decide on it. Please, Mr. Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u88	In fact, a correction of the Minister's statement. This written opinion, this second opinion, "second opinion", does not refer to any decision, but only to a rejection decision. So, it's not true that we should just call the experts for every decision - these will probably be a little bit. So it's not true for every decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u89	Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u90	I find that particularly unconstant. You said before that the threat to government decision-making on a public interest test may also be to disclose information that should not be disclosed because it weighs the interest protected by the exception, personal data, tax confidentiality, business secrecy or whatever. So basically, the amendment is flawed, and that limit is even more so.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerovšek, have you asked for the floor? [[No, no, ……]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u92	I'd still like to make a brief comment.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u93	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u94	Still, I would. [[...]] [[Back-up advertising.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u95	Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u96	I don't think he's inconsistent. I think it comes from the assumption, as I have already mentioned, that in cases where you would have taken a decision against it, this is actually rejected by the written opinion. However, I do think that there are authorities above them to see if these data are being secretly misused. In fact, it is a certain type of objectification of the decision-making bodies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u97	Anyone else want to discuss the amendment to Article 16? I guess not. Mrs. Bebler, how long will it take for the written amendment to be ready?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u98	Fifteen minutes, if you could, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u99	Okay. Then I interrupt the session for fifteen minutes. We'll continue at 13.52 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u100	We continue to discuss the amendments tabled. I have just received an amendment to the amended Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Access to Public Information to Article 16 tabled by Mrs Beblereva. And there are 10 MPs signed. This amendment, I'm going to read you this amendment. Article 16(1) of Regulation (EC) In the second paragraph, in the first indent, the words "State Prosecutor's Office" shall be deleted. A new, second indent is added, which reads: 'The Attorney General, the Prosecutor General, if the State Prosecutor is obliged'. Explanation: "The Public Prosecutor's Office, in view of its tasks and competences, is substantively within the framework of the Judicial Branch of the Authority, and therefore its independence and autonomy must also be ensured when deciding on the request for access or the re-use of information of a public nature, irrespective of its position and attitude towards the Government." Would anyone like to discuss this amendment, please? Mr. Skull, LDS, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Look, this is a very important provision, which must be adopted in some way, if we do not want to have a shadow of doubt as to whether the state's prosecution in all respects can, in the light of the powers it has, be it alone or not. If a third party may decide on certain data possessed by the State Prosecutor's Office which is a government, this may mean significantly greater problems than those of public interest for access to such information. From this point of view, it is good that at the last moment this correction has taken place, which undoubtedly improves the law, while keeping everyone in the place to which it is constitutionally judged. I'll just support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss it, please? Mrs. Bebler's. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u103	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. As I have seen that the Minister has given a signal to members of the coalition to reject this amendment, I would, however, also like to remind members of the coalition that it was just yesterday that the Prime Minister, who specifically stated that, of course, the State Prosecutor's Office is an independent and independent body to belong to a third branch of the government. And that, of course, he could not, of course, agree that the government would take on any greater interference over him. So we'd be heading towards constitutionality and legality. That is why I would still appeal to the coalition members to support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Any other Members would like to discuss it, please? No, no, no. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Well, see, this provision does not in any way restrict or distort the independence and autonomy of the State Prosecutor's Office. In no way interferes with the prosecution's proceedings, with the professional work of the prosecutors. The solution you are proposing is a possible solution, one of the possible solutions. The solution that we propose is another possible solution. Now, during the break, we held a brief consultation and considered the good and bad sides of both solutions and we assessed that the original solution was better. Look, in any case, the state prosecutor's office - for the first time, the public interest test cases are rare, I will stress again, and very difficult - probably. Secondly, the State Prosecutor's Office will only draw up a proposal for a decision on the government. Thirdly, the government has teams, in particular in the Ministry of Public Administration, which is responsible for the law on access to information of a public nature, which can contribute significantly to the quality of the decision in elaborating the decision. Finally, the decision of the Government is always subject to supervision, an authority to access information of a public nature and a judicial branch of authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? If not, I will put the amendments to Article 16. The first will be under point 1 of the amendment review and the second will be the amendment proposed by Mrs Bebler. We are moving on to a decision on the first amendment to Article 16. An explanation of the voice? Can I help you, Mrs. Shirca, on behalf of the delegation?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u107	In your own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u108	Excuse me! Anyone else want it first on behalf of the Group of Members? Mr. Potch, on behalf of the Group of Members, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Once again, I would like to say that an open relationship or a broad-minded attitude of the government and its understanding of the well-intentionedness of the proposals may also be in this first and second cases, but now I am talking about the first, having a positive view. Nothing would have happened. And what the government has claimed is that even more so if we followed the content that this applies only to negative decisions, it would be unfair and bad, it is not true. We just wanted to say that when public information is not to be made available to the public, then make sure it is checked in advance that there are no misunderstandings later in the proceedings before the Commissioner and the Court. We will support this because it is a minimal correction towards the wider public.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Anyone else on behalf of the delegation? [[No, no, ……]] Mrs. Shirca, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Well, Mrs Bebler's amendment seems worthy of my support, even because the explanation in the sense that these are very rare cases, and even if there is one, is sufficient and the system of elimination, as it has given, makes sense. At the same time, I would stress that Mr Gantar's first amendment on behalf of the LDS is also worth listening to. I agree that this is a matter of mistrust. But mistrust is precisely because it is a very difficult decision when it comes to assessing whether any information can be public or not, since it is a matter of weighing two constitutionally protected interests. And these interests are decided in most cases by the government or at municipal level by the municipal council and by the highest public authorities that decide for themselves, even though we know that the Ombudsman or the Ombudsman is still in charge of this decision. In this test it makes sense to add an opinion, as it is written, to additional, as I understand, independent experts. And if I can advise the government, such counseling can only benefit her. After all, from a possible difficult weighing, it will come a cleaner way than it does. In this respect, both amendments to Article 16 should be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Anyone else? If not, we are moving on to a decision on the first amendment to Article 16. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 40. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 40.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the second amendment of the signed ten Members with the first signed by Mrs Lovtišar Bebler. We're voting. On behalf of the Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u113	Thank you very much. I can agree that there are two options, but these two options are far from equivalent. In the case proposed by the Government, the government is given a direct opportunity to obtain and decide on information that is otherwise a matter of state-counselling organisation. So far in the system, as far as I know, I have not checked this moment in detail, except for the appointment of the Attorney General's Office, there are no functions for the State Prosecutor's Office. The supervisory role is played by the Minister, who can also look at the files and assess the conduct of state prosecutors in certain cases; the government - nothing. This means, and now I will say evilly, that we can invent the required information in order to obtain from the State Prosecutor's Office information on the issue of criminal, judicial and other procedures that would otherwise not be authorized. I do not think that this is good, and indeed in this case, forgive the general public prosecutor who, as an individual body in this case, will assess whether any information could be detrimental to criminal or other proceedings, because that is the only thing or should be given. Since this is the case, I think this refers to point 6 and point 8 of paragraph 1, in these cases, but not all others. Here, however, it is an explicit case and that the government assesses what can be published and what is not, I think that this must indeed remain in the prosecution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Anyone else on behalf of the parliamentary group - explanation of vote? [[No, no, ……]] Anyone else? If not, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 66 present, 24 votes against 41. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving forward to the second reading of the amendments tabled, which is to Article 17, which says 'the new third paragraph is deleted in the second paragraph'. The amendment was passed by the Liberal Democracy Club. I am putting forward a proposal for this amendment in the debate. Please, Mr. Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u115	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. We've been trying to fix things here. Since Article 4 of the Law was not amended and this basic definition of re-use of information of public character, those articles could not be given. We are also somehow correcting what can be corrected by proposing that paragraph be deleted, that the authority issue a written decision on the application request, that price be calculated for re-use or that other conditions be laid down in accordance with this Act. This brings information closer to the use of general information of a public nature. I'd say a few words about that. I understand the directive and our law on access to information of a public nature, as it is, and including all amendments somehow. Information for re-use either for commercial or non-commercial purposes shall be a subset of information of a public nature and shall be subject to the same rules as for information of a public nature in its entirety. In particular, not insolventness, any use of intent, any punishment if the information is not properly used in the correct way for this re-use and so on. I base this on two facts. With the first fact that payment is not necessary, with the exception of transfer costs and so on, the media, cd or paper, photocopying and the like, that payment is not necessary because this information has already been paid because taxpayers and taxpayers have already paid them because they are produced by the public sector from the budget in any other way. And there's no need to charge them yet. Free access must be made not only legally but also in an accessible sense, economically, financially, in order to ensure that the information already paid and used for their original way is also used for different and other uses and so on. That's right, that's the logic of the law that is now in force and that logic should be preserved. This is the logic that actually makes from information, data, you could say, raw materials for new information, for added value in the combination of this information and so on. They told me, for example, why not pay someone who asks for a winery archive because then he'll use it commercially because he'll want to sell the stoppers. That's exactly what I'd say is the case. Why would they charge him, since perhaps the end is that he gets this archive and offers the winemakers the stoppers, perhaps everyone will eventually benefit from it. Perhaps there will be more competition on the stopper market and so on. Maybe there'll be new methods and stuff. These are examples that tell us that this information needs to be opened free of charge - not only in legal terms, but also in economic terms. When I came to the public administration, the rule was that, in fact, everything in the public administration was produced as information, that it must be hidden, that no one had the right to do so. How dare someone ask for information from the public administration! It's the other way around today. I use this many times and apologize to Gregor Virant and Perenič for the sentence. We know Hegel's sentence, which says that the essence of the state is in secret. This logic reigns all the time in Central European space. We exceeded it, including Gregor Virant, who worked on this first marriage, we worked together. Today we wanted the essence of the country to be open, honest, accessible. If we can change that logic or maintain logic, we'll get a lot. So once again, I say what the role of the State is. The role of the country, as I understand it and think most of my liberally democratic colleagues, is not that the country is doing business from information it is privileged to collect, but to allow others to do business. And this is the logic that is in the American law, which is in some Scandinavian laws, which is in the English law, which is in the Slovenian law and which is not in the directive. Since the directive - at this level, European countries will never, for a long time, be able to agree. However, the Directive does not prohibit this logic if it is enforced in a given country and so on. That is why, of course, I propose that you accept at least this amendment, so that in some way we can implicitly open this information and not go into payment and thus achieve at least a partial improvement of this Article. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Who else would like to discuss it, please? No, no, no. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Of course, I fully agree with Dr. Gantar at this ideal level. It is quite clear that the essence of the State is changing and that one of the key principles in which the public sector must act is the principle of resistance and transparency or transparency. We do not agree only in the decision, for I claim that this law is a huge step in this direction. With this law, we have given citizens, as well as, of course, to the media, such as qualified public information enquiries, even more widely open doors to this information. The law removes a bunch of exceptions that have been in force so far. The law provides a set of issues that have been disputed so far when it is not clear whether any information can be made public or cannot be made public, definitively clarifyes, could, for example, indicate what is being opened by this law, what has not been done so far, or whether it has been questioned or not. And public debates were opened: from data on recipients of state aid, subsidies, all payments to officials and public servants when it comes to salaries, compensations, costs, fees, payments of accounts for the administrative activities of the public authorities. All information on public procurement, price, quantity, annexes, values of annexes to these contracts, contractors of public contracts, including confidential documents which have so far been completely inaccessible, and now the law allows the question of whether they have been legally classified. Even internal acts if public interest prevails. We do not agree, however, that openness and transparency also requires that the data collected by the State with tax money be used free of charge for its commercial purposes to sell it further. In this segment, however, the matter is different. We all paid for the collection, collection and processing of these data, all taxpayers, but only a certain company or several companies, of course, used them for their commercial purposes. And here we have taken advantage of the option offered by the directive to be used for commercial purposes. I would specifically point out that the charging of this data is very limited, namely no non-profit use is charged, i.e. no non-commercial use, nor is it charged in any case with the purpose of informing, ensuring freedom of expression, culture, art and additional emphasis on the use of information by the media. Thus, I could even say that some of the data that has been charged today, or the purposes that have been charged so far, will not be able to do so again. For example, weather, weather data used by the media for information purposes. If I draw the line. Once again, this law opens up, increases openness, increases transparency and does not allow economic operators to trade information that we have paid all taxpayers. It should, of course, be stressed that the law enforces the principle of the directive, that access to information of a public nature with a view to further application should not be discriminatory, so there are no exclusive rights, except in some exceptionally justified cases, but in principle there are no exclusive rights and must be accessible to all under the same conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Mr. Gantar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u119	I'll be brief. I'm sorry. Maybe I'll be quieter in the second session. Well, with everything that Mr. Minister said in the introduction, I agree. All these improvements or more detailed definitions as regards wages, the public sector, subsidies are useful, good and correct. There is no doubt about it, we support it, I mentioned it, we support all changes for the better. The key story where we differ is the payment of the use of information for commercial purposes. And here is your thesis that free acquisition of information of a public nature is not allowed, in order for individuals to trade with them, here is an indication of the basic misunderstanding of this law or of the law, such as in practice in the American and in some, as I said, Scandinavian countries and in England. Simply in that this is precisely the goal in some way, the goal is that, let's say, someone gets some data, gets some other data, and on the basis of this knowledge and behavior, they learn the third data they sell, they charge, and with added value, that's the goal. In a large society that is informed, informed, I cannot imagine anyone getting some information from a public authority and giving it further if this information from a public authority is also available to everyone else. Why would I buy from someone some data because if I get it directly like the ones I want to sell it from the public authority itself, according to the principle of free access? So it's impossible for someone to work a business case in case of simple data trafficking. Why not? Just because all data is accessible to everyone and therefore your case is clear, illogical. This is not so much a problem of restricting freedom of expression, constitutionality and so on, it is an economic problem. Take this to the Economics Council, and we'll see if it'll fix it for you or for me. The country is therefore, not to do business with data in secondary use, but to allow others to do business in secondary application, under all the principles enshrined in this law, I will not repeat them, and so on. Here is the fundamental difference between how the government understands the law and how we in the LDS Group understand this law and here we differ. There are two times, one is yours, the other is our explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Mrs. Shirca, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u121	I'm afraid it's not just me, but it's probably one of the people here that doesn't understand it, and that's why I'm joining Mr Gantar in these concerns he's expressing. Mr Minister, you did not give me sufficient grounds to understand, I say goodbye, Article 17, as it was written. Once the information is public and the means of information have the right of access, especially if it is not blocked by a pre-specified commission, it shall be made public and accessible to all. Who else will have an interest in the economic sense, if I give the case, has resolved with the assistance of the authorising officer to pay the Director of RTV to the public, has come to the public and has been distributed as a public good. There would now be another and in this case economic interest, not from the types of media as defined here, which would like to have this information once again, but the information is already public, it has been paid out of all of us, because it has a public character not only by source but also by status. Is this not a redundancies requirement for use for so-called commercial purposes? Can public service also be commercial? Can I have an answer as to where this interest exists for then the payment of this information, which, in my opinion, is not justified to be payable in view of the fact that the government or state is not a STA? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u122	Anyone else want a word? Mr. Jerovšek, word or no? [[No, no, ……]] I saw your hand up. Here you go, Mr. Secretary of State Perenič.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u123	Thank you. So when we talk about the public of a salary, this information is not even public only on the basis of the law on access to information of a public nature, but is already published on the basis of the novel on the law on the system of wages and now in its entirety. However, this is not about the re-use of such information. Re-use is defined both in the Directive and now in the draft law, as well as the use of information for another purpose, such information being compiled and used in the public sector. So it's not about someone taking any news or information like that. This is in the domain of access to information. We are talking about re-use of information if someone, for example, buys out the entire state database of the land book, the earth cadastre, the statistics, the national council database and then uses them again as part of their payment package. This is what we're talking about again. Or, say, as Dr. Gantar quoted the case, if someone were to use meteorological data not to predict weather, but to calculate what the risk is, whether they can insure storms or not, etc. Therefore, the government here insists that if such re-use were used for non-profit purposes, for research purposes, for humanitarian purposes, for supervision by non-governmental organisations, such use would, of course, be free of charge and it is right to be free of charge. However, if this is used for purposes, if someone earns this information, if this information is therefore a raw material for some of its products, which he will make and sell and in doing so successfully, there is no reason for the taxpayers to pay. If I say very simplistic, we see no reason why taxpayers would finance private business, and we think it is right that if information from the public sector is used for some profitable purposes, that part of that money will be returned and thus burden the taxpayers, because it will only value the price for taxpayers and only for that reason. That is why it is so limited in the law, only for profit purposes, and it is also excluded here, when it comes to culture, if it comes to freedom of expression, to inform the media - anything that follows also some public interest besides that private profitable one is free of charge. It is only charged when I said that the tax money would finance the raw materials of a private industry, because it is also not exactly the same as other industries. The digital content industry will get raw materials for free and everyone else has to buy them on the market? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Anyone else? Since I find that the debaters are no longer present, then I am putting an amendment to Article 17 into the decision-making process. Explanation of voice. Please. On behalf of the parliamentary group or?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u125	No, in personal interest.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u126	Who first on behalf of the Group of Members? No, no, no. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u127	[[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] He'll agree with me, I hope he does. [[...]] I'd like to speak very briefly about this. What Mr Perenič said is quite consistent, but we do not agree with that. We think that right here is this fundamental difference that exists in, I could say, the concept of law. This concept of law goes on a different path in this respect and in fact the payment of information applies as a principle instead of actually promoting economic growth precisely by making this information available only for intervention costs. Models that should be processed, say, a land book, a cadastral, are not processed and regrettably that these laws have not been processed, it would be good if they were. That is why, of course, I must say that I will support my amendment, and you must be aware that when you vote against this amendment and for this article as it is, you will vote in favour of another concept of the law on access to information of a public nature.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u128	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 64 Members present, with 21 votes and 42 against. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We continue the debate on the amendment to Article 27, which reads as follows: "Article 27. Article." Anybody want to talk about it? Please, Mr. Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Very briefly. All I would say is that this article has a nice title, i.e. the prohibition of discrimination, but in fact it introduces discrimination. Of course, the prohibition of discrimination in many other articles of the basic law and also of the one already prepared is contained. In fact, it defines in paragraph 4 that the Authority may grant exclusively the right to re-use information if this is not necessary for the provision of public service or other services in the public sector. So this exception is now legal. It is true that the possibility of restricting this exception is also legal, but it is here. The current law has not treated the problem of exclusive use or the exclusive access and use of information of a public nature. This has now been brought in and I would say, in a way, it devalues those articles in the law that say that every right to free access to public information and exclusiveness is already excluded in advance, if I may say so. This article is, as it is, paradoxical. It formally refers to the directive, but in fact, it could be said, it degrades the higher standard of the law on access to information of a public nature, which is contained in this law compared to the directive. We therefore propose deleting this Article.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Anyone else? Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u131	I must answer, very briefly, I apologize to all Members of Parliament and Members. I don't know if we're discussing the same article. In fact, the fourth paragraph of Article 36a states that it is possible to grant exclusively the right to reuse, if necessary for the provision of public service or other services in the public interest. The need for an exclusive right shall be checked on a regular basis at least every three years, on which a specific decision is issued and against the decision is a complaint admissible and anyone who considers that there is no such urgent interest may complain if he is interested in accessing information. See, the current regime does not exclude the use of information of a public nature. We believe that there are such treaties in practice, and we have also stated in the transitional provision that they will have to be repealed or harmonised with the law. We have written into this law, in accordance with the regulation, there is no exclusive, exclusive only in exceptional, justified cases, if necessary. It is said that there is no other option and legal protection is possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Mr. Gantar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u133	The current regulation of the law on access to public information therefore excludes the exclusive right of access to information of a public nature and thus excludes the right to re-use information of a public nature. If this information has occurred anywhere before or beyond the law to the exclusive right of this information, Article 30 is on the spot and because it is not an amendment, I can only say this, we have also amended this article and we have withdrawn the amendment to the State Secretary's explanation and we agree with this Article 30. However, once again, the current law does not provide for the possibility of any exclusive right to re-use information of a public nature.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u134	Thank you very much. I find that there are no more debaters, so we can move on to a decision on the amendment to Article 27. Does anyone want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group or on their behalf? I guess not. We're voting. I note that from 61 Members present, 20 to 40 voted in favour. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 40.]] The amendment to Article 27 is not accepted. I'm finishing second reading. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted amendments to Article 13 of the amended bill. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table an amendment to this article? [[They don't want to.]] [[Back-up advertising.]] Excuse me? Procedural question, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u135	I find that the government - whether I have overlooked - has also mediated the harmonisation amendment, Article 20th. Have we considered this?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u136	No, we will. I find that no amendments were tabled in the third reading. On the basis of Article 140(5) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I ask the Government to tell us whether the law is harmonised or not.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u137	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Following a warning from the Legal and Legislative Service, we have prepared a harmonisation amendment. In the law, in article 30, in one place, the word "ministery responsible for the information society" appears in error. We therefore propose that, in paragraph 4 of this Article, the word "ministery" be deleted from the word "ministery" and the word "competent to the information society" [[hereinafter referred to as ‘the Ministry’]] ".. This ministry has also de facto disappeared since the end of March, there has been a reorganisation and, of course, there is a need for this amendment because of the formal harmonisation of the law and internal consistency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u138	Thank you very much for your explanation. Since the Legislative and Legal Service has pointed out that, following the third reading of the draft law due to the amendments adopted, the Government has drawn up a harmonisation amendment for the new 20th Article [[text you got on the bench]] . Would you like to speak to a government representative about the harmonisation amendment? [[No, no, ……]] Thank you very much. Do they want to discuss the harmonisation amendment with MEPs and Members? I guess not. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, we are moving on to a decision on the harmonisation amendment. We are voting on the government's harmonisation amendment for the new 20th Article. We're voting. Of the 60 Members present, 53 voted against 1. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. We're voting.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u139	Mr Vice-President, I would like to explain on behalf of the Group of Members. May I? Explanation on behalf of the LDS Group of Members. In my opening statement, I mentioned that the LDS Group cannot support this law for the reasons stated and explained in detail even under the amendments. In the meantime, we have talked with many people and have found that, despite not adopting some fundamental amendments, despite the fact that in certain cases the law is going to go worse, it is necessary to wish this law a happy path and to guide it along with good wishes so that our fears do not come true and that it will be even more determined and better when it comes to accessing information of a public nature and when it is used again and again. If the amendment of Mrs Lovtišar, which is so clear and important, was adopted in the debate, I would certainly say right now that the Group of Members would not propose to its Members a vote against the law, but rather leave them to vote on conscience. However, since this amendment has not been adopted and is in fact more fatal than it seems - I think I have overlooked this fate myself - and we must say that Members and LDS Members will still have to vote against this law, in the hope that the law will actually carry out the task it has, and in the hope that our fears will not actually be realized. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-15-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u140	Thank you very much. We're voting. Of the 63 members present, 47 votes against 15. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 15.]] I note that the assembly has fully adopted the proposed law. I hereby conclude this item of the agenda of the 7th meeting of the National Assembly. I'm adjourning the session, which we'll resume tomorrow at 10 a.m. At the same time, I would like to inform you that, ten minutes after this meeting, the meeting of the College of the President of the National Assembly will begin. Thank you so much and good-bye!
