ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! Welcome to the 6th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, convened pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 57 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Let me say hello to the students and students of the Faculty of Maritime Affairs and Transport of the University of Ljubljana as well as to the representative of the Faculty. In view of the fact that we celebrated quite a few world days last weekend, let me express the hope that you have survived them in the family circle and are not too concerned about climate change. In fact, Mark Twain once said that it's very strange how we all complain about time on average, but nobody does anything about it. What we can do is contribute to a democratic, calm and patient dialogue in Parliament, and I am sure that we will continue this meeting in this spirit. I am informed that they are detained and that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Roberto Battelli, Ferry Horvat, Franz Kangler, Vice-President of Mag. Vasja Klavora, Jakob Preseknik, Dr Mitja Slavinec, Jožef Školč, Davorin Terčon and Dr Pavel Gantar. We invited the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Janez Janša, to the 1st item of the agenda, representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to all items of the agenda, representatives of the student organisation of Slovenia at the 6th point and representatives of the Council of RTV Slovenia at the 15th item of the agenda. Once again a nice greeting to all present! If you allow, we are moving on to the agenda of the 6th meeting of the National Assembly. The agenda was drawn up in accordance with Rule 59 of the Rules of Procedure and received by reference to the 9.5.2005 meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of our Rules of Procedure. As I have been informed, there have been no proposals for withdrawing the item from the agenda or extending the agenda. As you know, the agenda is fully decided. I propose that today's meeting be scheduled as referred to. Would anyone like to explain your voice? Mr. Peche.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u2	Your Honors are here! On behalf of the parliamentary group, I would like to express my disagreement with the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group on the way in which this national assembly is working. In part, I agree with you when you have sent an appeal to Members and Members of Parliament in particular on the issue of patient and democratic dialogue. At least in the framework of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, we would also like to highlight the desire for a transparent dialogue. In this context, I would now like to point out the continuation of content from this point of view, as pointed out by my colleague Boštjan Zagorac in relation to the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the public sector wage system. According to our assessment, it would make sense to pursue the objective of transparency in order for the National Assembly to adopt, at the same time, an accompanying decision on the definition of payment classes. According to our assessment, that is to say, according to the assessment of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, such a time gap between the adoption of the law itself and the implementing decree may occur or, according to our assessment, mainly intransparency and thus inability to implement the individual amendments found in the decree and consequently within the framework of the law. From this place I was obliged, on behalf of my fellow Members, to express my disagreement with the Slovenian National Party's Group on the manner and content of one of the agenda items of this meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President Sasha Pece. Anyone else? Mr. Potts.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Before deciding on the agenda, I would like to ask for information on when the National Assembly will decide on the request of a group of Members with the first-signed Anton Robb to decide on the decision concerning Rule 21 of the Rules of Procedure following reduced procedures on war laws, because I would also like to define it in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u5	I am, of course, in a delicate position as President, but not as President of the National Assembly, so I may suggest that the President, Mr Tsukjati, responds and we may also suspend the meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u6	If you'll excuse me. I believe that it is not yet a business opportunity for us to discuss and decide on this. You know that it is up to the college to decide first, or to require respect for the time limit, how many days and when this requirement can then be placed on the agenda of the national assembly. So this question does not belong to this session now.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u7	Thank you. Anyone else? Madam Ambassador, Zalokar Orzam.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u8	I'd just procedurally continue anyway. However, I would like to know how the committees which have already been convened, which do not take account of the fact that decisions in this regard have not yet been made. These committees have already been invoked by laws in which there has not been a decisive way of proceeding. In short, we do not get an answer at some points, but at other points it is done as if the answer and the fact already is.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u9	So, of course, I cannot give this answer, the answer or your question is recorded, and I suppose it will be answered and responded accordingly; but we remain only in explaining the votes or 'procedural', but there is no debate. Now I feel like we're already discussing the agenda. Mag. Squeak's got a word for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u10	Look. Mr Vice-President, with all due respect, what Mr President of the National Assembly has said is not true. I think that the decision is necessary, the decision has not been put on the agenda today and since we are voting on the agenda, the issue raised is correct. If the leadership of the National Assembly cannot decide, I propose that you take a procedural break, consult and give an adjusted business response. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u11	And Mr. Pache and Mr. Potsch.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u12	I must say that I agree with my colleague Rob's proposal, and I think that we have supported him at the College on behalf of the United Nations Group, Mr Kumer, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party Group. However, as Vice-President of this town, I would like to point out that there has been some sort of solution to the college as well, not to say that it was a good solution, of course, but that Mr President Tsukjat will convene a meeting with the leaders of the parliamentary groups, which I think will take place on Thursday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u13	And Mr. Potts.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u14	Mr Vice President, I have no clear answer, but I would only like to know whether it is or not. This is not a debate on the agenda, but whether or not the decision on the procedure is included in this or at the next meeting of the national assembly. Because we probably need to know this, because when you put the agenda to the vote, it is likely that this point will have to be or will not be. And as for me, if it is not - I do not mind that it is not and that we are deciding at the next meeting, only then certainly the decision on the procedure has not been taken and is not, as colleague Orazmova warned, 25 can be decided on a substantive basis on the working body. As for Thursday's meeting, Mr Pece, we are pleased to see it. Of course, it only makes sense if we talk about the content before the procedures are under way, but not if someone puts us ahead of the fact that we have to coordinate things in two days, because otherwise it will be the way the coalition has concluded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u15	I can't do anything else in this place. I'm adjourning the meeting in 15 minutes. We will continue at half past three, and I propose that the leaders of the parliamentary groups and the leadership meet at the meeting to coordinate on this supplement. As it was said, the meeting was suspended in 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u16	We're continuing our session. I inform you of, I can say, the informal decision of all the leaders of the parliamentary groups, the President and the Vice-Presidents on the issue. I'll tell you again why I decided to interrupt the session. I decided because some Members wondered why this meeting would not decide on a proposal from a group of Members in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, i.e. that two laws would instead be dealt with on a regular basis after a reduced procedure. This, and this is also our decision, will be discussed at one of the next either regular or extraordinary meetings, but by then, of course, the mother labour body cannot decide on these two laws or draft laws. I will no longer allow the debate in this place and we will vote on the whole matter. Our conclusion is also that we will not allow the debate. Procedurally, please, Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u17	Allow me, Madam President, on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members, to tell the Christian People's Party that this meeting, which you have arbitrarily ordered, has not been attended and that this is actually an abuse of the Rules of Procedure, because these proposals are not on the agenda today and you cannot allow this debate here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u18	Thank you very much for your comment. Who's procedural? We're voting on the agenda. I note that 67 Members and Members were present, 64 votes against none. (The vote was 64.)(Nobody.) The agenda is adopted. Didn't you have a voting device, Mr. Mikolitch? I'm calling technical services to see what's going on. If the voting apparatus has not voted [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] So the vote was valid, because it was found that the card worked and was incorrectly inserted. Thank you very much for your attention. We continue to meet at three with questions from the Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u19	Dear Members and honourable Members! We're moving on to one. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - QUESTIONS FROM THE MISSIONS AND THE CONCERNERS. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received written notifications from 35 Members and Members within the time limit. The order of business shall be laid down on the basis of an agreement with the heads of the parliamentary groups and in accordance with Article 244, second paragraph of Article 245 and Article 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the national assembly. The Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Janez Janša, will answer the first three questions of members of the opposition and the Member of the ruling coalition's question on Wednesday, 18 May 2005, at 2 p.m. First, in accordance with Rule 247 of the Rules of Procedure, the Minister for Higher Education, Science and Technology, Dr Jure Zupan, will reply to the question raised at the 4th meeting of the Assembly and then ask questions from Members. Members who have asked two questions will ask the second question after all the Members who are registered ask one question. Members shall have three minutes to ask the question. The Minister answered the question in no more than five minutes, as well as if the question was raised by more ministers. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask an additional question; please, Members, be aware of this. The Member shall provide an explanation of the request to supplement the reply within two minutes. However, the reply may be completed for a maximum period of three minutes. With regard to the disclosure of the questions sent, I would like to inform you that Mr Slavko Gaber has removed from the question the initiative of the Minister for Higher Education, Science and Technology, which he can only put in writing under the Rules of Procedure; that Member Drago Koren has asked the Minister of Education and Sport a question for which the Minister is not competent; that he has withdrawn his question; that he is a Mag. Mr Rop asked the Prime Minister a question contrary to Rule 240(3) of the Rules of Procedure, which was complemented by the fact that the content of the question was clear; that Ambassador Lovtijar Bebler had completed her question with a specific question and that Mr Bojan Rugelj had changed the question addressed to the three ministers and only addressed it to the Minister of Finance. On this point, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr Dimitrij Rupel, apologized for today. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised today, the Minister must provide him with a written reply within 30 days, which will be published in the bulletin of the National Assembly. A Member who has asked a question which has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral answer. In this case, I will place the question at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. On the bench, you received a review of the questions sent and of the initiatives that have not yet been answered in the course of business. At the 4th meeting of the National Assembly, Mr Mitja Slavinec asked the Minister for Higher Education, Science and Technology, Dr. Juret Zupan, a question of the views of the closed meetings of the Higher Education Council. Since the Minister was not present at this meeting and the Member requested an oral reply, the Minister will answer him today. That is why I ask Minister Dr. Zupan to answer the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Mitja Slavinec! First of all, I would apologize for waiting so long for my answer; I was officially absent and I apologize again. Your question was about the public or the openness of the High Education Council, and in this regard I answer you that the Council for Higher Education has actually adopted the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Council, which, inter alia, states in Articles 17 and 18 that the work of the Council is public. By the way, I can quote exactly this article, which says, "The work of the world is public." The public of the work of the Council shall be ensured by the following forms of action: by the publication of concrete and general acts adopted by the decision, by explanations of those acts, by the participation of representatives of the professional public and by means of public information at meetings of the Council and other working bodies in accordance with the decisions of this Rules of Procedure, by informing the public of the dates and agenda of the meetings of the Council, by press conferences, by internal presentations and by other means of information and by other means." The secretary of this body, in cooperation with the relevant services of our Ministry, is responsible for providing the public with the work of the Council and its working bodies. The participation of the public at a meeting of the Council or its working body shall be decided by the President of the Council or by the President of the working body of the Council when he convenes the meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u21	Mr. Slavinec, thank you very much, Mr. Minister. We continue to ask the questions put forward for this meeting. The first question will be asked by Mrs Majda Shirca to the Minister for Culture, Education and Sport. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u22	Thank you very much. Dear Minister! At the last meeting, the government resolved the Director of the Archives of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr Dragan Matič. The mandate to manage an important public institution with the material heritage of national history, documents, records, confidential papers and films was carried out by Dr. Matič for less than a year. Human resources replacement, therefore, started in culture. The Minister of Public Administration, Mr Virant, announced several ten replacements of directors or supervisors of bodies in the composition at the time of the adoption of the Law on Public Servants. Today, we can confirm that those few have been turned into huge ones. Mr Virant also encouraged the exchange of politically compatible people to take place after comprehensive reflection, reflection, conversation and coordination. In the case of the director of the archive there were no extensive conversations, at least this is how we read in public. We also read that there was only one conversation between you, Mr. Minister, and the director of the archive. You told the Director to go. You didn't tell him why, and more; you told him you had to replace him, not at your request, but at the order of others you had to carry out. We have a law that allows disgruntled people to be dismissed for no reason, or just for one reason, incompatibilities. Why is the director incompatible, Mr. Secretary? Why is he dismissed and why is he suspended if we know that the post of Director of the Archives of the Republic of Slovenia is an extremely professional task? It requires the implementation of the most demanding professional tasks in the field of archival material protection, as well as the self-sustaining of solutions in this area. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u23	Thank you, Mrs. Shirci. Mr. Minister of Culture, Dr. Simoniti, will answer. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you so much for asking. Regarding the resolution of Dr Dragan Matič, I would like to say that this has happened after a thorough reflection and in this regard I would like to say that the explanation given is: "The management of the Archive of the Republic of Slovenia, that is, the body in the composition of the Ministry of Culture, by Dr Dragan Matić, shows conceptual incompatibility with the policy of protecting the archive material of the Ministry of Culture in particular with regard to the different understanding of the public function of archives and with regard to the reorganisation of the archival service, as derived from the priority and the work programme of the Ministry of Culture." This would mean that if I explained a little as a director, otherwise a good historian did not have enough archival expertise and references and had insufficient leadership in the national administrative body. The implementation of the planned programme of work of the archive of the Republic of Slovenia, in particular in the area of the preparation of the new archival law, has not taken place following the established relevant dynamics and in this regard in relation to the resolution of the issue of electronic archiving, the reorganisation of the state archival service and the reregulation of democratic access and the use of archival material in archives. It is the fact that Article 45 of the Public Information Access Act and on the basis of its adopted regulation on the intervention of a public character have actually caused a certain legal confusion in this area and the procedure for access and use of archival material has changed substantially, as already foreseen by the 1997 Act. This legal confusion was expressed in the fact that the use of archival material was aligned with the use of public information, which is also, of course, contrary to Europe's recommendations and so on. I expect, of course, that in the new archival law we will remove this discrepancy and this anomaly and that the archive will be open in that sense, but not depending on the specific opinion of the chairman, which of course must not be. In this area, in the last year, since 1 September 2004, there has certainly been little work done and such an institution, of course, needs a competent chairman, who understands the role and importance of the Republic of Slovenia Archives more organizationally and substantively.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u25	Thank you, Minister. Does the MP want an additional answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u26	Thank you very much. From the foregoing, however, they do not know what the answer is in the public. I would therefore like to ask for an additional reply, Mr Minister. You have expressed your doubts about the drafting of a law on the protection of archival materials, which Mr Matič should not have been a part of, should not have been a part of. But, you know that, Mr Minister, that Mr Director should not have been on the expert committee, he was not in the group appointed to form this law, and that he had developed in particular a number of concerns about solutions, regarding the protection of electronic storage of materials, which we know can be in the interest of a wide range of operators in our space. Also with regard to the legal confusion of article 45, which you are referring to, let me remind you that this legal confusion has been demonstrated in a particular case, because I suppose that certain contacts and pressures have arisen, because this is the case of the writer Markes in Mago and also of a question that was not likely expressed today, but it is probably a key incompatibility, an alleged discrepancy that occurred when Mr Dragan Matič, as the competent inspector for cultural heritage, reported the case and asked for an example of the purchase of banknotes by Mr Jelinčič when he sold to the National Museum. Could these questions also have fueled this incompatibilities?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u27	Thank you, Mrs. Shirci. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u28	Thank you very much. I wouldn't interfere with these things that you mentioned about the journalist and Dr. Markesh and about the purchase of the bills. My explanation, which I gave you, remains the same. I think it is necessary to have a professional professional in this area, who comes from an archiving service that has long experience. This is about organising the Archives of the Republic of Slovenia and other archives in a single network, in addition to the other things that await us when the new law enters into force. And as I said last year, I would expect this dynamic to be faster, better, and closer to the solution that this preparation of this law indicates. It's just that this time delay has been too long. I think that too little has been done and I personally think that there are enough competent people in the archives of the Republic of Slovenia who have been dealing with archives for decades, while Dr Matič has not done so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u29	Thank you, Minister. Mr Dusan Kumer will ask the Minister of the Interior a question. Although he is not present at the moment, will you still ask a question, Mr. Kumer?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u30	I'll ask you a question, and please, if I can get an oral answer at the next meeting. Dear ministers and ministers present! Dear colleagues and colleagues! In recent days, it is possible to observe in the public media that the Government or the Ministry of the Interior is preparing a reform of the police's legislation, including with a view to legalising the political control of the Minister and the Ministry of Interior over police personnel and investigation procedures. The pursuit of such a goal is, of course, a major step back in terms of democratic development, achieved in the area of security and internal affairs, Slovenia alone so far. The political control of ministries or ministries of internal affairs over the police is a violation of the civil and democratic rule on the professional autonomy of the police and political interference with police, management and operational tasks and work. The delegation of power to the Minister and the Ministry of Criminal Investigation within the police is to expose the police to the police - or better to: the promotion of a policy in the person of the minister with police powers over other police officers operating within the police force. The introduction of two police - one in the Ministry of the Interior, the other in the police itself - is a constitutionally controversial duplication of crime detection and investigation organisations. The Minister of the Interior is not a police commander as a professional organisation, so he has no right to interfere with her operational work and to intervene in internal police personnel procedures. Here, as a rule, all the current directors and their police co-workers were sure, sometimes even too much, so that one of them even happened to be there while defending the independence and independence of the police and their work, too, into the sphere of politics. It's not like that today. It may even be a deliberate or random time to reform the police, because the procedure for finding the police director has begun and current responsible and potential candidates do not hope to speak. Therefore, I ask, Mr Minister, what are the motives, reasons and arguments for the regulation of an independent and professional independent police, which is the body within the Ministry, with these changes? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u31	Thank you, Mr. Kumer. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u32	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you for asking. First of all, I would like to say that the changes to the police law were encouraged by the police in the last half of last year, some changes that are urgently needed so that the police can function normally. One change will also be present at this session, the fact that the criminal authorities can also be at the second and first levels of the police, they have been able to do so until now only in police stations and therefore the police have had certain problems. The second part of the question that you have asked me, however, is somehow focusing on the changes to the law envisaged in the Ministry of the Interior's work plan, was planned to bring these changes to the government's meeting sometime by the end of June and then to the normal procedure. These changes are by no means intended to interfere with the independence of the police, never at official meetings within the Ministry of the Interior and, on my part, did not represent the area of police work in any way to undermine the independence of the police, in any way to change the status of the body in the composition. All the proposals that I propose to the Government will not contain such content. The police must remain an independent body in the composition of a highly professional body, which will treat all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia in the same way and, above all, cultivate a high level of professionalism and high ethical membership. This will enable us to ensure respect for laws at the most basic level, where citizens meet with the police. Articles that have appeared in newspapers or on television in recent days have somehow represented some of the viewpoints of individuals who may have a different view of certain matters. I must say that in the Ministry of the Interior we have a commission or working group led by the Secretary of State and has two members [[One of these members is from the police, from the body in the composition]] preparing a comprehensive review of the changes and possible changes to the Police Act. Inside the body, the police, we have a subgroup led by a person who is a member of the ministerial working group. They are now in a phase where they coordinate different views and views on certain issues. When they come to the point that things will be coordinated, they will present them to me as Minister. Together we will hold some necessary meetings and then we will put the law into further procedure, so to speak, inter-sectoral coordination. And once this is coordinated, the matter will only go to the government and to the next procedure. Some paragraphs appearing in the media were not presented to me as an official text. In fact, these papers, which they later tried to show me, were some of the writings that were not signed by anyone. So I can't say whether someone maliciously presented this to the public or for any other purpose. In short, the working group, both the Ministry's working group and the police subgroup, have not yet drawn up an official proposal, so it is very difficult to comment on some of the statements that appear in the media. Once again, I stress that the Ministry and personally as Minister do not wish to abolish any body in its composition - that is, the Ministry has two organs in its composition - and they will both maintain all their necessary autonomy. The fact that a call for the Director-General of the Police has appeared or will appear in those days is a perfectly normal consequence of the discharge of the former Police Director and the appointment of the Government in my proposal. Director of Police. I do not think this has anything to do with the fact that changes are being prepared at the same time, which were planned at the beginning of the year and also confirmed by the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u33	Thank you, Minister, Mr. Matthew. Mr. Kumer, would you like to complete your response? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u34	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister! In part, I agree with your answer and I will take you up on the floor when we have a concrete proposal in the National Assembly. I hope that the answer you have given today denies my belief that the proposed amendment to the law or the reform of the police would in fact constitute a grave involvement of politics in the police's independent and professional work. I therefore ask once again: Is there any intention that within the Ministry of the Interior some individuals actually have police powers to control police officers? Because there can be a catch here that is a non-European solution. And let me say another. I also asked you a question because somehow this announced reform, which has occurred in any way in the public eye, is another piece of the campaign of the ruling coalition on state and other institutions. It started with the SOD, the KAD, and the pension, health, banks, insurance, schools - and eventually the police. And here's my skepticism and concern. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u35	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u36	I'm sorry, thank you for saying that again. I would be happy to answer that additional question. Indeed, there may be some tendency of individuals who want such control, but I personally do not intend to defend it, and I think it is extremely unacceptable that this is the way to resolve those functions that the Ministry has against the police. The Ministry already has certain powers to control the police, not least since last year it has also resolved complaints or Senate decisions and coordinated them on citizens' complaints against police work. That'll keep going. Here are some additional articles that will, of course, further explain some of the uncertainties that have occurred over the past six months or a year to resolve these complaints. Otherwise, the Ministry also has another body in its composition, which is an inspectorate, which has powers of inspection over certain procedures, such as, say, public procurement, and not least, secret contracts, which are carried out - if implemented - in accordance with the legislation that is in our country. There is absolutely no need to establish a mechanism where individual employees of the Ministry of the Interior would have police powers to monitor the legality of work within the bodies of the constituents, both bodies in the composition are right because other mechanisms ensure that the Minister can supervise the work of both the Ministry and both bodies in the composition, while police officers have the power to exercise them against persons who violate either public order and peace or commit crimes. It is not necessary to have these police powers to introduce surveillance, so that I see no need, personally, for such powers to be within the Ministry of the Interior. In investigating the crimes that police officers would possibly commit, however, police officers have to start procedures against their colleagues on their own by official duty, if I say so or by law, so there is no need for an additional mechanism to ensure these matters. Only a word can be said about the second part. I don't think it's any kind of inside-of-the-Ministry of the Interior campaign to take control of the police. This is a normal process of work where the Minister has the opportunity to assess how individual employees work, and the Director of Police is a subordinate officer of the Ministry of the Interior to the Minister, and at this point I have somehow decided to replace myself in this post. Now in the invitation to tender, we are looking for a new person and one of the conditions for him to be able to do the job is that he is an official authorised person, that he is already a police officer or a police officer in the past, and that he has the necessary knowledge that he can lead this very important and demanding body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u37	Thank you, Minister. Dr. Matthew Lahovnik, or excuse me, Mr. Bojan Rugelj will ask the Minister of Finance, Dr. Bajuku. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u38	Thank you, Mr. President. Nice greetings to all present ministers and ministers of our government. My question and initiative is about increasing the competitiveness of our economy. To begin with, some data may show what has been the gross wage race in Slovenia, inflation and exchange rates for the euro over the past years. The data show that the exchange rate for the euro over the past eight years has grown about two and a half times slower than wage growth and about twice as slower than inflation. All of this has caused much underestimation of the euro, so that many products from imports are cheaper than at home, where they are no longer to be produced. As a result, there is a huge external trade deficit of an average of $1 billion or about 10% of our external trade balance. The results of such a failed policy of our previous government are the great and rapid growth of our external debt, where we also borrow money for things that we can do at home, poor conditions for an economy that is difficult to compete on the external and domestic markets, loss of jobs, especially in the economy, work in intensive industries, increasing social transfers, overburdening the economy with taxes due to excessive wage growth and spending mainly in the public sector. It is known that exchange rate and wage policy are two of the key levers to foster competitiveness and economic development. Wages, especially in the public sector, are too high compared to the economy and this injustice must be removed. I propose that the exchange rate, within the limits of options, should be improved, taking into account the criteria for taking over the euro, in order to increase the competitiveness of our economy, including agriculture, wages and public sector spending should no longer be increased. Of course, in such an important case for the development of our economy as the exchange rate, only the National Bank of Slovenia cannot decide, so I ask you, Minister Bajuk: What will you do at your Ministry in this direction? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u39	Thank you, Mr. Ruggle. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor. As you know, foreign exchange exchange rate policy is entirely the responsibility of the Bank of Slovenia. Notwithstanding, the government and the central bank have reached an agreement on the coordinated management of macroeconomic policies during the period until the euro is taken over. In order to ensure one of the key objectives, namely to take over the euro, Slovenia entered the so-called Euro takeover workshop last June in the European Exchange Rate Mechanism. This set the central parity of the tolar in relation to the euro of SIT 239.64 for the euro, by which Slovenia resigned, has effectively waived the active foreign exchange policy. These are the realities of this moment. So, since the entry into the RM2 at the end of June 2004, which is a mandatory condition for taking over the euro, the course has been fixed and can only swing around the central parity. Both the Bank of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia are no longer able to use the euro exchange rate in this period, as was the case in the past, as an instrument to promote the competitiveness of the economy, but all actors - and in this area too - must focus on structural reforms that increase the competitiveness of the economy. The only other objective of foreign exchange exchange rate policy can be merely the stability of this rate. However, I must also point out that long-term depreciation is by no means a marriage to ensure a competitive economy. For competitiveness, reforms at the level of each undertaking are of greater importance specifically, such as recasting business processes, investing in R & D, innovation and modern market approaches. In particular, the key role of the country is to ensure stable and predictable operating conditions, including the stability of foreign exchange exchange policy. Last but not least, the devaluation - and we know this in the good of this country from its own hair experience - has a significant impact on import prices and maintains higher inflation through them than would have been desirable in the national economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u41	Thank you, Minister, Dr. Bajuku. Does Mr. Rugelj want to complete the answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u42	Maybe a little something. I am aware that it is purely exchange rates - no, but I have also stressed the rise in wages or spending in the public sector that directly affects this. And if we are to correct this injustice that has occurred in recent years, something will have to be done. We also need to adapt productivity in the public sector to economic performance if it is not in the economy. We know that it is adjusted in one way or another, and yet we know that consumption is increasing across borders. And that's not what any economy is capable of.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u43	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Dr. Bayuk, would you like to complete your response?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u44	As far as pay policy is concerned. You are well aware that this is the current, now valid wage policy agreed upon in accordance with the social dialogue mechanism that we have in Slovenia and we are also committed to retaining it. In this agreement, which was in force until the end of 2005, it was clear in the past what will be the policy of wages and that it will partly fall behind productivity growth, around 1%. In the public sector, recent agreements have also reached an extension in the same direction as in the past. Negotiations for the private sector will also now begin. As far as the government is concerned, we will try to achieve this in every way to keep this stability, which has also been created under this wage policy, until the euro is taken over, because otherwise it is hard to imagine that we will be able to implement this national project. As far as public spending is concerned. I thank the Member that he has expressed his concern about public spending. Sam, as responsible for the finance sector, I'm talking about this - and how! But I sometimes hear such support for the need to reduce public spending, as I have heard now from your mouth. I hope that this will be the case when we discuss in this national assembly on the rebalancing of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia in the coming weeks, and that we will be able to take those key steps that are the only solution in the long term to the fact that, if we want smaller taxes, we need to start where we need to start and that is to reduce public spending. But I'll tell you in advance, it's not an easy business. In fact, public consumption in the Republic of Slovenia is very well fixed, based on legislation and legislation is the responsibility of this house. Here we will have to discuss these things, I hope with your support as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u45	Thank you, Minister Bajuk. Dr. Matthew Lahovnik will ask the Minister of Health Dr. Bručan a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members. I see that the Minister is not here, which I sincerely regret, and I ask that the next time he answers the questions asked orally. Of course, I want to ask my question. I would like to ask: What will the Minister do to protect the rights of supplementary health insurance insurers? And: How will it ensure that insurance companies are actually equal before the law? According to my data, the health insurance company has grossly cheated on the insured and has acquired 5 billion tolars of property benefits. At the end of last year and at the beginning of January, many insurers received offers to turn their life insurance contracts into fixed-term contracts for 12 years. There was a letter that would otherwise lead to a significant increase in health premiums. Of course, it should be pointed out that the health insurance company also damaged the State budget for 300 million tolars because it did not deduct the relevant tax on sales from insurance business. I have been approached by a large number of citizens, especially the elderly, pensioners and also workers who feel seduced and cheated. In fact, someone who was 60 years old realized that he had made a contract for a certain period of 12 years. Of the 150,000 insured who received such offers, nearly 60,000 accepted this offer, which, of course, raises an open question of what will happen after the 12 years; what awaits these insurers who have accepted such an offer because they could not afford a few thousand dollars higher insurance premium, in fear of what will happen in the next 12 years when they are, say, 72 years old and will be virtually out of health insurance or, at that time, a health insurance company will put a significantly higher insurance premium on them. 14 days ago, a health insurance company sent a letter to the Prime Minister, Mr Janša, forcing him to re-examine his health premiums by 38%. For 38% raise!,This means about 20,000 tolars extra for each insured person. I would therefore like to ask: What will the Minister do in view of the fact that the market inspectorate has made it clear that it is a matter of deceiving our citizens and citizens to press charges against the guilty judge? I also ask myself: What does the Director of the Insurance Supervisory Agency, Mr Gorišek, do not publicly warn all citizens and citizens not to conclude such harmful contracts because they are directly damaged? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u47	Thank you, Mr. Lakhovnik. The request to respond orally in accordance with Article 247 of the next meeting of the Minister has been accepted. Ma'am mag. Majda Potrat will also ask the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u48	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members, Madam Minister and Ministers. Allow me to ask the absent Minister of Health a question concerning the resolution adopted in the European Parliament in 2003 and it concerns breast cancer in the European Union. In spring 2006, Slovenia, as a member of the European Union, will have to report on what it has done between 2003 and 2008 in order to reduce the consequences of this serious disease. There are two reasons for my question. The first reason is that health on the scale of values for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia is extremely important. It is therefore very important to guide the national health policy programme, which must ensure equal access to health services and good treatment for all, regardless of gender, race or any other personal situation. For the disease I'm talking about, early detection is extremely important. According to statistics in Slovenia, 51% of patients with this disease come to a doctor when the disease has already grown. There should therefore be a lot more to be done to raise awareness, but at the same time some measures should be taken to prevent and detect cancer early. The second reason is this. Breast cancer is the disease for which the medicine does not exist but is the most common form of cancer in women. In the European Union, for example, 216,000 women suffer from breast cancer. In Slovenia, 1,000 cases of cancer per year are detected, the number is increasing; about 400 deaths are associated with this disease. Because breast cancer is generally the most common disease of women after 35 years of age, and especially after 50 years of age, it is important to ensure that we achieve all those objectives which the resolution concerns. This is the fight against breast cancer as a priority, reducing breast cancer mortality, introducing screening mammography for all women after 50 years of age every two years, establishing centres for this disease, and could also list. I therefore expect the Minister of Health to tell me what we have done in this area at the next meeting with concrete examples of measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u49	Thank you, Mag. It's a waste. A request for oral response shall be made. Mrs Maria Possonec will also ask the Minister of Health. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u50	Thank you very much. Nice greetings to all present! In recent times there has been a lot of talk in the public about health care. So I want to know: How is there going to be a reorganisation of health care? Will outpatients in health care be available for private health care? Under what conditions will private doctors be able to hire them? Will this take into account the fact that many health homes are built from the means of self-contribution? Will future health services remain at today's level? There is a problem of lack of doctors, and we cannot pass this problem without delay in bringing doctors from abroad. The reasons for the absence of doctors will need to be identified. Is this the reason why doctors ’ social reputation may be low, as a result of a low evaluation of their work? Is this also the cause of a very complicated and long secondary? It does not seem right for us to leave our greatest wealth, our health, to foreign experts. How is knowledge of Slovenian or Hungarian and Italian in this case? What measures does Slovenia take to alleviate the lack of doctors? I hope not that the individual doctor will be on duty in the hospital for two days at all times and will only be paid for 10 or 6 to 7 hours. Thank you very much. I'm expecting a response to the next session.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u51	Thank you, Mrs. Poxon. A request for an oral response shall also be made at the next meeting. Dr. Mark Pavliha will ask the Minister of Transport, Mag. Janez Christmas. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u52	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, Ministers, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament! With my question, I would like to draw attention to a problem that the Minister probably knows well. This is a problem that has continued since 2001 when the first part of the highway section on the Vransko - Trojana route was put on the market. I don't know what kind of smart guy it was then that became extremely clever to think that exports from the highway to the main road had become unfavourable, rather than the opposite, although on this export the density of traffic was about 30 times higher than on the main road of G1. This, of course, causes daytime congestion, sometimes three miles [3 km] long. I must say that this has already been pointed out by Members in their previous term, but nothing has happened. I myself, as the minister of the current minister, who was then President Darsa, ordered that this problem be resolved, but apparently it was my request or my order to bet on the wall. And even professional services apparently didn't understand what the problem was. It makes sense for me to ask the question that was raised to me when I took over the ministerial function: Is it not just one more form of expressing the power of Darsa over the country and her people who do not have the best opinion on this company? Dars as a 100% state-owned company is apparently becoming a country by power, influence and road lobby. That is why I think we need to subordinate it to the executive branch, if not to the legislative branch. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Minister, for the first time: How will you act - as Minister or as former President of Darsa - on this issue? And secondly, when will this problem really be resolved in the long run? And we all know that when that last missing piece of Troy is built, both tunnels will be. Initially this is supposed to happen before the beginning of the season, now we hear the date of the end of August and rightly we can ask ourselves who knows if this is even going to happen this year. And, of course, we are back on a transport policy that we could have had for almost a year, and these problems probably would not have been, and the government has withdrawn it from the parliamentary procedure and its fate is also unclear. Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u53	Thank you, Dr. Pavlich. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u54	Thank you very much for your words, Mr President, and honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Vransko - Trojane motorway section was placed on the market on 26.6.2002 and not in 2001. The traffic arrangements of the Trojana motorway connection are already implemented in the final form in some way and are essentially the same as on all other motorway connections. Noting that the link between the Slovenian road transport system and Trojan is one of the most neurological points of the month of August this year with the construction of the last 8 km motorway, Dars proposed, in a technical review prior to the transfer of the motorway section from Vranski to Trojan in 2002, that until the transfer of the entire motorway section to Blagovica, with a temporary modification of the advantages of the two-way road, the priority of the motorway is introduced. However, this initiative was rejected by an argument of the actual minor failure of the two-passenger road, which is not intended to reduce the anticipated traffic congestion at the end of the motorway before the temporary stopover, which we are witnessing at the daily ends and, in principle, at Monday morning at the morning end. Dars also reiterated this initiative a year after the transfer of this section in 2003, by temporarily modifying the advantages of this highway connection to a two-pass state road. The Roads Directorate, as the manager of the regional road between Trojani and Blagovica, took this initiative seriously, by convening a meeting on the ground itself, on the site of a site attended by representatives of the Ministry of the Interior, the Ljubljana and Celje Police Administration, Dars, the then PVAC and DDC. It was found that a similar initiative by Dars had already been presented at the technical review and was then rejected. Following a review of video footage of traffic developments in this area and observations of developments at the connection, the majority of the opinions were that congestions occur mainly due to the minor failure of the two-passenger road between Trojani and Blagovica, as well as the construction and other connections to this two-passenger. The Roads Directorate then recalculated the traffic count and, together with the police, analysed the leak of this intersection. Following a review of the documents presented and delivered, it was concluded that transport signalling should remain at the temporary connection in accordance with this design, since the change of the priority road due to the minor failure of the two-band road from Trojan to Blagovica would not save the frequency of congestion. Despite this parliamentary initiative, Dars also tabled a new proposal this year in April to change the advantages of that connection, given that construction transport between the Trojans and only Blagovica is declining. In the event that all relevant institutes, not only the manager, are Dars, and the two-passenger regional roads for which the Roads Directorate is responsible, but also the police and the DDC engineering organisation will assess this time that the change in the traffic regime would take place by taking the priority road from the highway to the two-passenger or regional road, improve the situation or situation, I will, of course, take all necessary steps to make this change happen. While greater delays occur on the export of the highway to the Trojans on Monday morning tip, and whenever there is a traffic accident on the Trojana - Blagovica route or, more often, when they stay on the road because of the damage, larger trucks. Finally, this traffic situation will be resolved, as I have already mentioned, by completing this last section of the motorway between Maribor and Ljubljana. Construction works, as brief information, at this section of Trojana - Blagovica are in the final stage. The installation, electrical works and installation of equipment of the so-called intelligent transport system are also being accelerated. After providing operators of parts of Impressa Graseto, SCT, Prevention and Construction of NGR, the engineering organization that exercises control over the execution is DDC, and also the contracting part - Dars will be possible section [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] in the second half of August 2005.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u55	Thank you, Minister. Can I help you?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u56	Thank you, President. Apparently, it is a kind of transport pingpong between different institutions, Dars, the Directorate, the Ministry or the Ministers of the Presbyterians, who was then the Minister, but nothing happened. So let this ping-pong explain to people who spend hours and hours losing minutes a week waiting in this row. Again, what are you going to do - now you have scissors and a canvas in your hands - that this pingpong will be gone and that people will be able to export from the highway first?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u57	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u58	Thank you very much for further explanation, Mr Members. I can say that it is not a ping-pong, but it is a serious consideration of the problem of prioritising a non-priority road. The issue in this regard is the issue of the safety of road users and they would not have allowed themselves in any way if the traffic and all remaining professions, not least those who have worked very many years with years of experience on the entire transport system and have also designed traffic arrangements on the highway and state road network, say that this is professionally justified, then I do not see that hero who would hope to turn the traffic regime into an account and for the cost of life or even serious traffic accidents. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u59	Thank you, Minister. Mr Sašo Pece will raise a question to the Minister of Finance, Dr Bajuku. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u60	In view of my information, Mr Bajuk, Minister of Finance, is in the lobby, so I would ask if you would call him to respond properly and qualitatively. Thank you. Mr. Bayuk, thank you for coming. Allow me to make a brief introduction. In particular, because of the speculative banking event during the period of independence of the Republic of Slovenia, the two biggest Slovenian or Yugoslav banks came into red numbers. In 1994, the National Assembly adopted a basic constitutional charter, and when this basic constitutional charter was adopted, it also adopted a decision saying that later, when the banks were rehabilitated when they privatized, citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia would receive their participation in this privatisation. This decision reached an extremely large consensus between the current political parties and the current political February. However, I can say that it was on the basis of this decision that the rehabilitation of the New Ljubljana Bank and the New Maribor Credit Bank was later carried out and that the left share of this rehabilitation was 2,200 million, or 2,200 million, of the German Marks. [[I'm talking about German brands like the current currency]] was paid for the rehabilitation of New Credit Bank Maribor and later for Novo Goriško banka. In return for this, or a better - said payment, this went to the burdens of citizens and citizens. That is why this decision was later adopted, which gave some kind of guarantee to our citizens that they would get what they were unwilling to pay for or unawarely paid for. [[Decision of 27.7.1994]] . In spite of this, the country sold the Novo Ljubljanska Bank under the current government after a rapid procedure or in 2000, according to my assessment and assessment of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. In the meantime, it was gentlemen who, today in the government, passed a law on the privatisation of banks, which then followed, I stress, that you were following a fair privatisation. Later, in 2002, I also introduced a similar law, which I thought would prevent the fraud of Slovenian citizens and citizens. But today we have a new government. Many have made many promises, but after six months alone, at least I am very disappointed in the functioning of the Ministry of Finance. The sale or privatisation procedures of the New Credit Bank Maribor have also begun, unfortunately as untransparent as under the previous government and unfortunately again without any legal basis, despite the fact that the decision was taken at the time of the adoption of the basic constitutional charter. So let me ask you three short questions. Firstly: Why do you not take account of the events when adopting the basic constitutional charter? Secondly: Why does it not return to the citizens or citizens for what you have credited them for in 1994 to 1998? And most importantly, since the scope of the operation of the New Credit Bank exceeds the scope of the area of Stajerska, but according to my assessment of the whole of Slovenia, I am interested in: What will be the privatisation and why do you not hope to introduce it to the national assembly and to the general Slovenian public? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u61	Thank you, Mr. Pechet. Mr. Secretary, Dr. Bayuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u62	Thank you very much. The Ministry of Finance and the government cannot be responsible for certain rumors that are spreading through our media, as regards the government's position and what will be the approach regarding the privatisation of Slovenian banks that are still in the country's dominant ownership. That this has not been exposed to the general public of Slovenia, honourable Member, is not true. You yourself were present at the theatre in Maribor when we explained what the government's approach is and what the government's approach to regulating the position of the New Credit Bank in Maribor will be. Above all, I would like to stress here that we will adhere to what we have actually promised in the pre-election period and also in our coalition agreement: that the withdrawal of the country from the Slovenian economy, including the bank, will be in fact excessive, gradual and, above all, transparent. As far as NKBM is concerned. The government is convinced that this is an institution on which we can achieve what our system still does not have, an institution that will actually work for citizens and the development of Slovenian entrepreneurship. The development of Slovenian entrepreneurship is the cornerstone of the economic policy of this government. And that's what we're gonna stand for. The fact is that this institution needs a certain recapitalisation, that we have had completely preliminary discussions with the European Development Bank and are ready to start formal discussions on these things, but our purpose in Maribor is to create a so-called second pillar based on the current NKBM, which will connect and actually achieve the integration of the postal bank, the Maribor banks and, of course, the insurance companies. This is mainly the Maribor Insurance and, of course, the Sava reinsurance company. But we also said that, and you were there, and the general public in the Styrian part certainly remembered that I also stressed that the government does not oppose the possibility of anyone else joining in. However, there is no point in talking about these things today, because these are the details for which it is necessary to make certain views of all actors very clear. Your question, which you also announced, was also about what instructions the government gave to the NKBM administration. The government does not give any instructions in this sense of day-to-day management, I hope you understand. However, the message of the administration was very clear, we expect that this administration or any other entity will actually implement a different business culture in this institution, that this bank, this pillar, will really act as a support for the development of Slovenian entrepreneurship and directly for citizens. This is crucial because only in such a business culture, which will actually be established, can we expect that Slovenians and Slovenians, not only as individuals and institutions involved in the institutions of public law, will even take note of the possibility of investing in these institutions. Gradual privatisation means just that: to create an option and then to open a procedure that will actually allow it. However, as far as transparency is concerned, we are convinced that the most transparent way to implement such an approach is to do so through the stock exchange. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u63	Thank you, Minister. Would you like Mr. Patch to supplement your answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, I'm not asking you about rumors. If I wanted to know anything, I'd watch the show Checked on POP TV. Another time. For the first time, I hear that New Credit Bank Maribor has not worked in the interest of citizens so far. I can even familiarize you with something more, it acted in the interest of the Republic of Slovenia, co-financed a huge event, which will not happen under new owners from abroad, as I fear you will bring them in. As evidence of this or as an argument to this, let us look at the operations of the New Ljubljana Bank under the new owners. There's another one. When you talk about the promised, you know, Mr. Bajuk, you've made quite a promise in your history since you've been in Slovenian politics. Among other things, the aim of the Act on Privatisation of New Ljubljana and New Credit Bank Maribor, in which you participated, is the distribution of ownership certificates. Today it's not about spirit or hearing. Furthermore, your demonstration of privatisation of such important matters as Nova Kreditna banka Maribor, for the whole region of Slovenia, is very vague. Look, a while ago, in the debate on this subject, in the framework of the parliamentary initiatives, you have responded a little more specifically than today, because the system, as you show today about privatisation, is a pale copy of the system, as offered by the previous administration, which you say is bad, but today you will summarize its system. Furthermore, when you talk about transparency, yes, how transparent it is for the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to include in the Supervisory Board such strong financial institutions a person who comes from another financial group of Activa Group, which, among other things, will probably compete for the purchase of this bank. At the same time, of course, the government through this same supervisory committee reaches, after my assessment and according to my conduct, to the refugees in the Slovenian legal space, that is to say, to order one member of the administration to appoint two other members of the administration, and so far to a member of the administration. Please, Mr Bajuk, all I want is a transparent privatisation, all I want is a privatisation that will bring back citizens what has been taken and that will be based on the law that you, among other things, have taken not so far back.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u65	Thank you, Mr. Pechet. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u66	What I can guarantee here today is that the government will pledge to be, no matter what kind of bargaining with all possible actors, that we will always ensure the role of the state in this institution in this sense, that these business guidelines, which we are currently committed to, will be realized. As far as the implementation of bank rehabilitation legislation is concerned. In the proposal for a budget rebalancing, you will notice that the government has decided to pay early the debts incurred due to bank recovery. This will not have some direct immediate impact on the 2005 budget. However, from 2005 onwards and for the entire decade we will reduce the expenditure just to service this debt. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u67	Thank you, Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u68	I will take advantage of the right given to me by Rule 264 of the Rules of Procedure, and the National Assembly has called for a broader debate to be held tomorrow in the context of the first votes to support me by enforcing or expressing the desire that the Minister's response to the said question be addressed, especially taking into account the fact that the Minister has promised some things and I believe that he has also promised transparency. Isn't that right, Mr. Bayuk?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u69	Thank you. Did you mean, like, 246th? [[Yeah.]] We will vote on this proposal tomorrow at the time of the vote. Mr Jožef Horvat will ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u70	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Council of Ministers. I will ask the Minister of Foreign Affairs a question and expect an oral answer at the next meeting. With regard to the latest developments at the border with Croatia, I will limit myself only to the developments concerning the hot boat on the Muri River, which, as is known, was stopped at the beginning of this month and then seized by the Croats. The ship is owned by the local community of Hotiz in the municipality of Lendava and not only means means means means of transport, but is also a symbol of Slovenia on the river Muri. On this river Muri, a beautiful number of Prekmurcs also earned the memorial sign "Defense the homeland 91". I am obliged to tell the honourable Minister that the citizens of the local community of Hotiz have welcomed his immediate response to the Croatian Minister for Foreign Affairs. We also expect a suitable level of determination of Slovenian diplomacy in the future. At the same time, discussions and guesses on the progress of the state border are renewed between residents of the local community of Hotiz or among citizens of the administrative unit Lendava, who live along the border with Croatia. Given the undecided conduct of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs over the past period, it can be concluded that there is some informal agreement between the countries on where the state border is to take place. The MZZ does not appear to be strong enough at baseline on 25.6.1991. An example of such conduct is the establishment of common small-border crossings by SOBS, such as Hotiza, St. Martin on Murray. I would like to explain: Who concluded an agreement establishing a common border crossing between Hotiz-Sveta Martin and Mura on behalf of the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia? As I am not aware that an appropriate ratification procedure would be carried out with regard to the signing of such an international agreement, I ask: Who and on whose behalf did this Agreement sign where this Agreement was published, what obligations does this Agreement represent for the Republic of Slovenia and on what basis is the belongings of the territory on which the small border facility is located today? Why do diplomatic units in connection with the opening of these and similar crossings contain the claim that this is a Croatian territory, even though the border agreement has not been signed? It is known, however, that the former SFRJ republican border of KS Hotiza has been taking place along the Mura River, which also proves continuous river management and ownership and management of the ship for decades. Why does the MZZ allow Croatian armed police to carry over Slovenian territory through six villages to work at the small border crossing of Hotiz? Why do we get explanations from the representatives of the Ministry of Justice that the area of Hotize is bordered on the cadastral municipalities, and in Istria, for example, our security authorities are acting on a territory that does not coincide with the course of the cadastral municipalities? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u71	Thank you, Mr. Horvath. The Minister will respond to the next meeting as requested. Mrs Cvetka Zalokar Orazem will ask the Minister of Transport. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u72	Dear Council of Ministers! Dear colleagues and colleagues! On Thursday 12 May, in the wider area of Domžale, there was a complete traffic collapse during the morning of the end between the sixth and ninth hours. The drivers were standing in columns. All roads between Domžalí, Krtino, Dob and Želodnik were untransportable, exports from the courtyards in those places were denied, and the safety-threatening pupils of the elementary school of Dob, as traffic was carried out on local roads, which were also school roads. Sorry, mostly no sidewalks. And why all this? Because of the construction of the toll station in Krtina. Black construction was closed by road connection on imports against Ljubljana. As mentioned later, on 21 April, the planned and approved prisons of the Domžale municipality were not informed, although local roads are also used for transport, there was also a lack of adequate information about drivers from the introduction of the prison, and the traffic signaling regarding the prison is extremely weak and minimal today and, among other things, the protection of the construction site is regulated. I don't know why or why. In view of the expected situation, no measures have been taken to prevent this situation, which is extremely irresponsible and unacceptable. However, there has also been major economic, material and, of course, time damage. At the time of the closure, it was also shown that warnings from the municipalities of Domžale regarding the construction of a black toll station in Krtina were unfortunately correct. We have expressed our fear that the traffic burden of other local roads and regional roads will increase enormously as a result of evading this toll station in Krtina. Vehicles from other areas, and in particular foreign and domestic cargo vehicles, dominated the convoys. That is why and because of the promise made years ago by the most competent people that there will never be toll stations in this area, the municipality of Domžale still opposes the construction of the toll station. In view of the unsustainable situation, the leadership of the Domžale municipality requires an immediate meeting with the leadership of Darsa and with you, Mr Minister, to find appropriate solutions and arrangements. That's why I'm asking you: In view of this situation, will you be involved as minister in solving the problem and arrive at a meeting Wednesday in the Domžale Congregation? What measures can we expect to take to ease the situation? I also ask you: Why do you still insist on the construction of these toll stations even though temporary stations cost as much as 800 million tolars, since there are more than 35,000 vehicles in this hinterland that are currently burdening only one and only connections in Domžal?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u73	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u74	Thank you very much for asking. Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Due to the continuation of the construction of the additional toll station Krtina, the contractor of the part of GIS Gradis Celje on the basis of the laboratory of the temporary traffic arrangements produced by Planum from Maribor obtained permission to complete the closure of the Krtina connection on the A1 Šentilj - Koper motorway, for the complete closure of imports into the motorway in the direction of Ljubljana, between 11.5. and 11.6. 2005. In accordance with the provisions of the Law on Public Roads, as applicable to all public road closures, the contractor of the part of GIS Gradis last week, i.e. on 6.5.2005, sent a notice that Krtina's imports in the direction of Ljubljana will be closed for all traffic of 11.5.2005. This notice was also accompanied by a photocopy of the closure permit to the following organisations: Automotive link Slovenia d.d., which, on behalf of the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia, carries out information on the state and traffic on state roads, BB Ljubljana, then SCP or Slovenian road companies. On the same day, the contractor also informed the Ljubljana Police Administration of the planned closure. Both letters were also sent to RTV Slovenia, Valu 202. After the end of the current prison, this is expected from 11.6. the imports of Krtina in the direction of Ljubljana will be open to traffic, but by the end of June all parts will be partially hampered, as they will take place along the narrow roadway. The traffic lock shall be duly marked on all roads leading to the connection of Krtina for the direction of Ljubljana in accordance with the applicable regulations and professional standards. We are aware that each traffic lock constitutes a disruption, especially during the first few days, and that traffic flows are then properly redirected and redistributed. This was also the case this morning when we did not notice any mention of valuable traffic from the direction of Celje, which would avoid the front of the toll station of the Compolje heading along the parallel regional road in order to re-enter the highway at the first next stop of Krtina. The second part of the question of the purpose of the construction of additional toll stations has already been answered several times, and this time only for a short time. Member of the Commission is well aware that the previous government and the previous call of the National Assembly have already adopted and confirmed the optimisation of the toll system for the construction of toll stations in the immediate vicinity of the main toll stations in 2001. This builds on the current open toll system in a way that reduces their toll-free operations by locating them near frontal toll stations. The road sections will be shorter for their users and the toll on them will more closely follow the principle of payment after the actual distance transported. The cost of construction of the toll station Krtina is about 570 million tolars, and net net inflows from toll at the time of operation by the end of 2008 are estimated at around 650 million tolars after subtracting the said construction cost and operating and maintenance costs. In addition to the gradual alignment of all users of modern roads, the construction of the respective toll stations is also important from the point of view of improving the financial conditions for the further implementation of the motorway programme, particularly in increasing the ability of reimbursement for the construction of motorways of already used loans and the possibility of hiring additional ones. Unlike some other places, such as Ivančke Gorica, where the construction of the toll station is temporarily frozen, there are two parallel road links along the Domžale-Ljubljana motorway. One of them is even four lanes, the other is two lanes. As before and now, I believe that a parallel road must first be built on the highway in an appropriate standard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u75	Thank you, Minister. Does the Member State wish to complete the reply? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u76	Thank you very much. I must say that there is extensive photographic material, that the situation was even Friday and this morning perhaps a little better than Thursday, but the columns were more than three kilometers long. So we can't talk about any better condition. I repeat the question: Will you, as Minister, attend the required meeting in the Domžalje Congregation by Wednesday? And secondly, I repeat: Why was the Domžale municipality not aware of the prison mentioned above, and why did the information to the public - which is documented - begin to intensify during the period after the prison on Thursday? Meanwhile, no one knew that the prison would be, and the trucks were driving and turning around in the fields, driving around our backyards, with the pickpockets, and without mercy falling into various prisons. Besides, we haven't been informed, which means we're not supposed to be taking the bypass on the local roads. Do you know what would happen if the municipality of Domžale prevents the use of local roads for transportation, since the majority of transportations are unfortunately carried out on local roads within these settlements, which obviously were not so decided in this laboratory, so no one has informed about these matters. But it's these roads that are used to transport.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u77	Thank you. Minister Christmas, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u78	Thank you very much for the additional question. Unfortunately, I cannot personally attend this meeting on Wednesday, as I am expected to travel to Slovakia on a programmed visit to the Transport Minister. This visit has been programmed for a long time. This will certainly bring together the most responsible representatives of the Transport Ministry and representatives of the other institutions, Darsa and so on. However, when I return, I will be able to discuss with the Mayor and the representatives of the municipality the open issues, which are also related to the completion of the works relating to the fulfilment of the contract between Darsa and the local community, the municipality of Domžale, which was concluded at the time of the preparation of the site plan, where the municipality of Lukovica and Domžale gained a considerable advantage over other local communities, because at the construction of the highway, much of the other state road network was restored. Last but not least, many other buildings have been built that are connected to other areas, especially the protection of the city of Domžale from floods. [[I'm talking about Dartishka, the mayor knows what's going on.]] . It's been done a lot. We will fully fulfil our obligations under existing legal relations. Of course, I expect tolerance and understanding at the time these systems are being upgraded, which we are currently building, because it will be very difficult if unnecessary prisons occur. We are aware, however, that there are many parallel links around Domžal and it is prudent to consider that, at the time of the reconstruction and completion of these investments, there are closures, and above all to enable citizens to travel as short as possible and as few traffic problems as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u79	Thank you, Minister. Mr Miran Potrč will ask the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs mag. Janez Petty Officer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Secretary. Social Democrats are defending the social market economy. Its foundation is an economic and development policy that does not favour the competitiveness of companies at the expense of social rights, nor is it based on the extent of social well-being that would threaten a successful race, progress and development. We always stress that these objectives can only be achieved through the patient dialogue of the social partners in a society based on cooperation, in which the government is also the most responsible service for all companies that serve people rather than the client interests. On this basis, the social partners also support all efforts and proposals for work rights, for broad-based solidarity in health care, for the stable situation of the pension system, for social, family, demographic, employment policy and the like. But all these policies must be harmonised, solutions must be professionally evaluated and verified, supported as much as possible by the social partners. In line with these principles, we also want to support government proposals to amend pension legislation. This was adopted in an intergenerational agreement. We are therefore concerned that the current proposals are prepared on serious professional concerns, without analysis of their objectives and effects, and without the consent of trade unions and employers. Legislation, which is the product of thorough international analysis and represents a broad intergenerational agreement, is now changing in contrast to these starting points. At the same time, with these proposals that we want to support, the government is forecasting reforms in the health sector that will be most affected by the same population group. That's older. With many rights and their appointment, he thinks in terms of ideological and party interests. Therefore, Mr Minister, I ask you: with what arguments is the government responsible for the economic professions, unions and employers, and what ensures that the proposed pension reform is not only about customer deals and promises that will only seem to meet the expectations of pensioners in the short term, but that they are objectives that are long-term and other measures of the government that will have lasting effects, but that they will be evaluated in some relatively short time frame? I would like to ask for as specific a response as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u81	Thank you, Mr. Run. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u82	Thank you so much for asking. During the previous term of office, the previous government systematically violated the agreement of the social partners on the reform of pension and disability insurance, whereby pensions should be coordinated according to the growth of the average wage. Interestingly, then the unions and employers said nothing and kept their mouths shut. As a Member, I have constantly warned the government that changes in the way pensions are coordinated go too far. We need to provide pensioners with rights for which they have paid contributions, even if some economists think that this is just a cost. The government has proposed amending the law on pension and disability insurance in order to stop the downward trend of pensions that we have witnessed in the past four years, which has led many pensioners to the point of poverty and many pensions have fallen below the level of social assistance. I believe that the current proposals do not mean a step back from the pension reform that was concluded in 1999 and also agreed intergenerationally, but they do bring the pension system back on track, which was drawn up in the reform of that time, and then turned away because of the changes in the way in which pensions adopted in the previous government mandate were coordinated. In designing the reform of pension and disability insurance, the view was adopted that pensions are fully coordinated according to the growth of the average wage per employee. With regard to your doubts about the long-term perspective of the pension system in the country, I would remind you that the 1999 pension and disability insurance reform has already been drawn up in the form of a gradual transition to a more sustainable pension and disability insurance system. In view of the projected reduction in the share of the active population, a gradual exacerbation of the conditions for obtaining a pension and a reduction in its non-reimbursable rate of fertility in the LDS primate government accounted for. The following measures are most important. The ten-year period, which was sometimes the basis for the calculation of the pension, is extended to 15 years this year, and the final objective is 18 years. The salaries taken into account for the calculation of the pension base are already aligned to 77.2% of the salary, sometimes being 100%. And the last year before retirement or about the average wage in 2000, regardless of the current level of wages or their average last year. At the beginning of each year between 2000 and 2025, the total rate of the pension dose is reduced by 0.5 percentage points. Taking into account all these restrictions, the average pension rate will gradually drop to half of the average wage by the end of the current reform. Moreover, if we were to reduce the level of pensions by such a formula for coordination as was adopted in the previous term, the pension level would have fallen intolerably and would have been close to 35% of the salary. As the best measure for the recovery of the pension and disability insurance system, we consider the improvement of the ratio between the number of insured and pensioners by increasing the number of jobs. We must strive to increase the share of insurers throughout the population and to extend the active period of each individual's life.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u83	Thank you, Minister. You want to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u84	I would really ask because there was no answer to my questions. With regard to the 1999 reform, I agree with the allegations made by Mr Minister, with the addition that the Social Democrats at the time, as an opposition party, supported and cooperated in a thorough manner. In my memory, however, the current coalition, especially the SDS and New Slovenia, has been assessed that the reform is significantly understated and will not achieve any objectives. I am pleased that today we believe that the reform has been well placed, that it needs to be carried out and that it has effects. With regard to the principle that the contributions paid must be respected and, on the basis of this, the rights to a pension exercised, I fully agree with you. It's nothing new, it's our social-democratic principle. I hope that it will be consistently enforced in any case. In some cases, questions are raised. As regards the coordination of pensions, unfortunately, it has been changed several times and, if this is the only objective of the law, it must be explained in this way. The law has many other substantive issues on which there is also a misunderstanding between the social partners. Among other things, with regard to the management of the pension and disability insurance institution and other things, there was no need for changes, but you probably did not explain them. So, Mr. Minister, saying that it used to be bad doesn't help much. It would also be good for this reform to be based on the widest possible agreement, as well as amendments and additions to the previous mandate, to be coordinated at least in the government coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u85	Thank you, Mr. Run. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u86	Your claim that Nova Slovenije opposed pension reforms in 1999 is not true because Nova Slovenije was not yet in 1999. It's just a notorious fact. This is what citizens know, and you know it well, and that is why your claim of course does not apply. But what happened to some of the other customers, how they did it, and I don't know, I should look at it, and I'm not in charge here. I am now working in the government, but there was no New Slovenia before. You're obviously against matching pensions according to wages. With this proposal, we are going back to the system that was concluded by an intergenerational agreement, and we believe that this should also be followed. A few of us were surprised to see why the social partners, employers and employees, as well as the pensioners' representatives, in the wake of the previous amendments, two or three, did not stumble at the time of the previous coalition, with these changes which have made the situation of pensioners significantly worse. But now that the situation of pensioners is improving, they are opposed. That's how it's hard for citizens to imagine. However, the government is acting reasonably and our proposal is so. If they did not do so, then again, I would point out that pensioners over a certain period of fifteen or twenty years, depending on the growth of wages, inflation and more, would come to a pension level of 35% of their salary, which is of course not good.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u87	Thank you, Minister. Mr Jožef Jerovšek will ask the Minister for Education and Sport, Dr Milan Zver. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u88	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary! At the celebration of the 60th anniversary of the victory over Nazism, politics was exposed, Janez Stanovnik, President of the Union of Fighters Associations, and Igor Luksic, Vice-President of Social Democrats, and at the same time a regular professor at the Faculty of Social Sciences, declared that Tiger was a terrorist organisation. It is clear that Mr Stanovnik has carried out the conscious malignment of Tigra and manipulation to justify the party's monopolization of the liberation front, which the age of Slovenian writers Boris Pahor indirectly notes in his daily log in Del. In Saturday's Work and also yesterday's speech marking the 60th anniversary of the Second World War in Trieste, Boris Pahor correctly found that in the views of Mr. Resident, it was to take the views of the Italian fascists on the anti-fascist measures and falsification of their views. It allows for the same position of Dr Lukšič as a result of ignorance and ideological indoctrination, which is also worrying and must be an alarm sign according to his position in the education system. It means that our college graduates, including those who study political relations on a regular educational path, do not receive historically correct, ideologically independent and country-based positive education, because their professors are unable to provide this. It is amazing, however, that the history textbook for the ninth class of the authors Dr. Boža Repeta and Dr. Dušana Neček also contains the exact same historical and politically inaccurate description of the national defence organization Tiger, who first triggered the resistance and armed struggle against the invader in Slovenia and was long silenced. In fact, the textbooks show the fair fight of the Tigers with terminology and views, as used by the political successors of fascist conquerors. All of this detracts from the fight of the Primors and all the Slovenians against Nazism and damages the positive formation of national consciousness and the pride of the young generation. Since this is not the only example of an ideological approach to important personalities and actions in Slovenian history in existing textbooks, you, Mr. Minister, ask yourself: What can you do to prevent young generations from continuing to be poisoned through education with historical inadequacies and learning content that fuel division among Slovenians, harm our minority in other countries and prevent the development of the national pride of young Slovenians? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u89	Thank you, Mr. Jerovska. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u90	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! Mr Jerovšek, thank you for asking. If I had been asked a question a little earlier, it would have been easier to prepare myself more thoroughly for this answer, but some of the textbooks, with the help of my colleagues, I was able to read in the points relating to the TIGR. In the textbook in 1961, TIGR was not mentioned - I speak for elementary schools - in historical textbooks. This is probably due to this party's attitude towards TIGRA, which has been dealt with very strictly in the 1950s at some meetings. In 1966 TIGR is also not mentioned, but there are several persons and events that are directly related to TIGR, but there is no concept of a significant sign. In 1983, in the textbook Bozič-Weber we find the label TIGR once and also a slightly wider record of their activities in Primorsk. In 1993 in the textbook Neševič-Prunk, this is the first time a more positive attitude towards tigers. If in 1983, when mentioned for the first time, a rather neutral attitude toward this movement, this textbook was quite positive in 1993. This textbook was published by the National Publications of Slovenia. In the last textbook on which you are referring, this is the Kern-Necak-Repe textbook published at Modrian in 2003, and TIGR is referred to as an illegal terrorist group that responded violently to violence and so on. Here we could say that this positive evaluation of TIGRA from the 1990s has become more reversed, I think it is a more negative label, especially because it is marked by authors with the same disqualification as the fascists of their time. Now, of course, I will not go into the political opportunity of these statements of the people you mentioned. But things aren't that simple. When the Minister of Education mentions the teaching of history or textbooks, then a storm arises. I think that, gradually, either at the Ministry or the State should create some conditions, in which history will also open up a more free space for interpretations, including those from history that we thought were otherwise beyond interpretation. But there is a problem with our system itself in textbook politics. Here we have a fairly liberal approach and we could say the key to that last sieve, the content sieve are actually the reviewers of individual textbooks, which not often, how to call it, in corporate relations with the writers of these textbooks and publishers do relatively unprofessionally their business. This year we will change the rules and allow greater, say, professional market surveillance. A number of concrete measures are also envisaged. However, in order to enable the Minister of Education to act on his own or to prevent an administrative measure from a historic judgment, this is not possible. But maybe, as I said before, there are some conditions that will be created so that such assessments will be the fruit of public debate. This would be necessary in Slovenian history and history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u91	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Friday, would you like to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary, for your answer. I see that you are dealing with serious problems that such a passing of history contributes to, because we know that national pride, patriotism in young people, is not shaped as it should be under the conditions of today's Europe. However, I suggest you, Mr Minister, remove this from all schools with a binding circle, in the sky, about textbooks contained in Gab's eight-year-old textbooks and replace it with a historical truth that will stress that the Tigers were very aware of the Slovenians and that they were the first to resist fascism in Europe. This is what we all have to do together to raise the Slovenian rebellion, to rid partisans and partisans of delusions and manipulations, monopolization of revolutionaries and so on. Maistra is also being treated incorrectly. I know that the Pohorsky Battalion, a fair fight is very poorly represented because there is no ideological charge and so on. We have to save, as I have already mentioned, partisanism, and all that for a young generation, we do something and I think you have the right to do it with the circle. I am convinced that historical science can immediately prepare historically uncontaminated, substitutable content, these certain segments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u93	Thank you, Mr. Jerovska. Mr. Secretary, do you want to answer? [[No, no, ……]] Mr Milan Petek will ask the Minister for Education and Sport, Dr Milan Beast. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u94	Nice greeting, Mr. President. Dear Council of Ministers, Minister of the Beast. After your visit to the part of the statistical region Podravje, so you address this visit, I have not noticed so far that in your visit to Prekmurje and Primorska you would use the term statistical region. So in your opinion, you brought Maribor the most from all the ministers. If you have also had in mind a resounding denationalization story, I ask you: What is the exact content of the agreement you signed on Tuesday 10.5 with the Bishop of Maribor? Before you signed, you probably knew the decision of the city councillors of the Maribor congregation, who were with a large majority of the votes, was the vote 32:1, so one against. Among them were all SDS saints and all NSI saints. So all of these objected to the return of the property in the nature of the church, pointing out the need for a comprehensive solution to the problem, which should also take into account the interests of the Maribor City Hall. I wonder: Why is such a unified view of the city’s world completely irrelevant to you? And a second time. About your decision to return the property to the church in nature, I ask you: How and when, especially after years of schooling, will you solve the problem of the network of secondary schools in Maribor? If, of course, it is possible to give this answer. Where will the secondary agricultural school continue its work? If we only take into account the resources you're running. How's the planned location of the Faculty of Agriculture? Has the government made any decisions on this? How much and where are the funds in the budget for these purposes, i.e. for investments in education? Is it possible that negotiations are already under way on the compensation that the church believes the state will pay to the church? Or have you already agreed? Does this take into account the fact that the State of the Church has for many years made it possible for her to work in one of the high schools in Maribor? This will also take into account the fact that the building was returned at the time of the seizure between II. World War II, unused facility in III. Construction phase? Question, Mr. Minister: What is it with 53 hectares of land surrounding the building and lying in the highly protected water protection area of the municipality of Maribor, which is carefully protected by the municipality? Before making such important decisions with such big financial implications, the consequences for the development of the school network in Maribor and, last but not least, the possible environmental consequences, have you carefully considered all aspects of this decision? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u95	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u96	Thank you for asking. See if the saints and saints of Maribor City had more detailed information on what we intend to do on our visit to Maribor, what kind of contract to sign, we would probably adopt different views such as. If communication had taken place between the municipality of Maribor and the Ministry earlier on the matter, such decisions and obligations would certainly not have been taken. I presented the project directly after that closing session, on Tuesday, with the mayor, and the matter appeared completely different from the day before when he led the city council meeting. By sharing or still standing here in this position that Maribor with this act received much, secondary education in Maribor. It is that we have managed to negotiate with the Roman Catholic Church and other beneficiaries that we will not return to the third high school in nature. We have signed a provision that the secondary music and ballet school is not returning in nature, which means that the Ministry of Education and Sport, as the current user of these facilities, can use it fully and also carry out certain investment and maintenance works, which has been disabled so far. The fate of the Faculty and the secondary agricultural school and the mechanisms that reside on this site will not be threatened in any way. Both institutions will be merged into a single establishment, moving to an old location in the immediate vicinity of the current location, in the immediate vicinity or on land, greater than 20 hectares, which will continue to operate as they have done so far. Smaller investment interventions will not put these programmes at risk in Maribor. When we talk about the cadastral congregation of Krčevina, we also talk about the work of the plot that I spoke about earlier, which is water-protective - what is it called? This has not been the subject of this and is outside this Treaty and will most likely remain the situation as it has been before. If you are now more specifically interested in what the school network will be like. As I said before, at Winery 14, these two institutions are moving together into a single institution. The Škofia High School will move from Zolaje to Vrbanska 30, as predicted, and Zolaje will move the programs of the Central Engineering School from the location of Smetana Street and Valvasorje, so that we will get on the Tezna some rounded whole secondary, I think, engineering programs. The mall will relax, we plan, the premises on Mladinska Street and will move to Valvasorje or to the premises of the current textile school, and the secondary guest house will spread further to the current commercial school. So, technical high school will occupy spaces in Smetana, and the economic medium will stay where it is now. We have thus turned this circle around, we are practically solving basic spatial problems, and it is true that certain investment and maintenance interventions will be needed in these areas, which are also necessary, does not mean a new financial requirement or a supply. The dynamics will go or the move will take place within one to three, four years, depending on how. The exact dynamics of moving are not yet known, of course, we still have to agree, now a more general model is known, who to go to, but will not happen to endanger the educational education process and the training process in the field of secondary education in Maribor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u97	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Friday wants to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u98	Minister, you did not answer me about the compensation, i.e. for the stay of the high school and for the value of the 41st year of the investment of others in the nescopia. My comment, if you'd like. So, yes, the saints were not as thoroughly familiar as you could have only been in the government that you seemed to be preparing this agreement. Apparently, even without the knowledge of your colleagues sitting in the city council. Perhaps this would have been different with their knowledge, but that was the case, and you need to have a little conversation with your parents if you are also interested in local interests. And that's what you've reached out to local interests, but that's your problem. As far as third high school and music school are concerned, it is quite clear that we have always expected that this will not be returned in nature, because it is the needs of the state-owned high schools. As far as the old location to which the agricultural school is supposed to move is concerned, in our opinion, the agricultural institution, which is too small and requires a large investment, much expansion, I do not believe that this will be a smaller intervention. In addition, an emergency traffic change of regulation is needed because there is no way to access the current institution after these locations, so investments are, but this is now again a problem of the assessment in advance. At the same time, I ask if it is possible to say: What about the agricultural establishment? Where, then, do you intend to move, and who will finance the relocation of the agricultural institution, which has played a very important role in this area? As far as the land is concerned, I am glad that this was not actually the subject of an agreement, because we were very concerned in Maribor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u99	Thank you, Mr. Friday. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u100	Yes, I understand your concern for institutions and high school in Maribor. I am responsible for the smooth progress and quality of education and training of secondary education in the country. The State is the founder of these institutions, not so much the local community. Of course, I would like to coordinate and resolve all these matters in agreement with the local authorities everywhere, not just in Maribor, and we do so more or less everywhere whenever we save anything. Without an agreement, no agreement, neither is the case, and that is how we agreed with the mayor of the Maribor municipality, Mr Sovic. Now the question, the claim that the winery is too small, of course it's not true, there are spaces, a lot of spaces that go beyond the squares of the needs of both secondary schools. I don't know where you got this information. As I have already said, there has been no talk about compensation and this is not the subject of my case, I am the Minister of Education and Sport and my primary interest is to ensure optimal spatial conditions and here I have found an interest in this relation of churches and states and of course other beneficiaries. It's a college issue. Here we are looking with the minister of the department and also with the leadership of the faculty of appropriate solutions, now there are quite a few available, at least three. We will be looking for an optimal solution, but not at the expense of Maribor or the municipality of Maribor. It is true that a neighbouring municipality is also offered with its facility and location, and I believe that all of us will agree that the faculty will also carry out its mission without delay, even after moving. Until then, however, there is still a great deal of time to find an optimal solution.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u101	Thank you, Minister. Mr Boštjan Zagorac will ask the Minister for Environment and Space Mr Podobnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u102	Thank you for your word. Your Honors are here! I will ask the competent minister, including the construction inspection: What will be the penalty for offenders for repeated acts in the case of the Union Chamber in Maribor? We know that the construction inspector did not issue a permit for use, and there were concerts in this hall at a time when she did not have a permit. Why did the inspector allow these events to take place, even though there was no permit, and he did not act immediately? Finally, we need to know that there has also been a threat to people, including children, at one of the events that took place formally on the site. There were about 400 people present in Maribor under the pretext that it was a ton of exercises of the mentioned hall, and there were 80 children. The owner, the municipality of Maribor, is therefore responsible as objectively as we believe, as well as subjectively, the mayor of the municipality of Maribor gave this hall a smooth one without the use of permission to rent to the users who carried out certain programs there. A technical review was carried out at the Union Chamber on 6 April. Due to lack of fire safety, no usable permit was issued. The competent inspector, under the auspices of the Ministry of the Environment, took office and took responsibility only on 14th of the month, according to a good nine or eight days later he came to look into the matter. And then he issued a decision prohibiting the use of that hall. However, after the 14th came the 15th, 16th and 17, three days of concerts for which it was necessary to count, say and write [[I've got the map still saved.]] 2,500 Slovenian Tolars so that people could formally observe a specific cultural event on the site. And thank you for all the happiness and for all the things that have not occurred in this Chamber in these days, for the question would be, What would then be the responsibility of those responsible? Therefore, I would like to know the answer to the questions raised at the outset, which I can repeat: What is the statutory penalty for offenders? I'm not going to ask who's going to pay for this because it's known that the penalty will have to be settled from the taxpayer's money. And: Why did the inspector allow the events to take place after his tour of the hall? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u103	Thank you very much, Mr. Ambassador Zagorac. Minister Podobnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u104	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Mr Boštjan Zagorac sent me a second question from the Member States, as he has now said, so that I cannot comment on this particular decision. Your question was: "I ask the competent minister what strategies or guidelines are being prepared by the Ministry for the proper functioning of the inspection services under its auspices, which is currently often flawed and inappropriate in practice at the site of the event." We have received this and on this general issue I have also prepared myself. I will certainly obtain all the information on this matter, on this particular decision of the construction inspector, and then give you an answer in writing. The only question I can ask you is what the sanctions are then, in principle, regarding the supervision of the work of inspectors. There are two ways to control the work of inspectors. The first is through a second-degree appeal. In view of the second stage of the examination of the inspection cases, we have already prepared a programme for the correction of the arrears at our Ministry, because the backlogs are too large here. There's another way. And this is the disciplinary route, and this is led by the director of the body in the composition. At the Ministry we have already prepared some changes to the rules on the construction of buildings, especially in the part governing inspection and regulations in general and which form the main part of the legal basis for acting inspectors, even in this case, of which you spoke, Mr. Member, in Maribor. As it may be said, there may have been a communication complication, but I have not received your questions in such a form, and I do not know the particulars of this decision in such a way that I can orally comment on it here. I'll give you a written answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u105	Mr. Ambassador?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u106	Thank you. I really hope that I will receive your answer in a short time and that it will be in very precise form. As you can see today, at least by the Members coming from the Styrian end, your trip, I appeal to the entire government, to Maribor and your "photo session" has caused much, I will say, disagreements and discussions in Maribor. We have heard the case, I will say, the return of the agricultural school, the new KBM, the bad inspection at the Union Hall, and something else might happen, so I advise you that the next time you choose the location for the "photo session" and come to certain places with such intensities as you were in Maribor, I now appeal to the entire government, please avoid Maribor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u107	The word is yours.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u108	I think we have chosen a very good location in the government to meet with representatives of the Maribor economy, MEPs, mayors. The one who was there was able to make sure that the debate was very substantive. Even in that place, I didn't get this question, which is about your question. If I had been there, I would no doubt have prepared myself in great detail and responded to it. I have now received a letter concerning the matter, but, of course, it is not all the documentation. As I say, I will answer you in writing.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u109	Let's keep asking questions. Mr Mikhael Prevc is next to ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u110	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Dear Council of Ministers! Dear colleagues and colleagues! I am asking the Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Food about the issue of obtaining administrative permits for interventions or deforestation for agricultural purposes. By 1 January 2003, when the new building law came into force, the procedure for obtaining an administrative permit for deforestation for agricultural purposes was quite simple. On the basis of the Forest Act, the Forestry Institute has given its consent to the authorisation issued by the administrative authority to an area where the deforestation also includes for agricultural purposes. By adopting a building law which entered into force on 1 January 2003, the owner of the forest wishing to carry out a felling of the forest for the purposes of agricultural activity may obtain appropriate administrative authorisations only if the use of the land concerned in municipal spatial acts is defined as agricultural land. However, it is complicated when the spatial planning acts of the municipality define the intended use of land as forests and not as agricultural land. In these cases, changes to the spatial Polish acts of the municipality should be made, which we know is a long and very demanding procedure. In Slovenia, which is already a forest region in one way or another, we have been more or less unsuccessful in preventing the rapid growth of our country's mountainous areas. In view of the problem mentioned above, the situation will only worsen as the forest owners will no longer carry out these deforestations due to impossible procedures for obtaining appropriate deforestation permits. That is why I ask you, Madam Minister: How do you plan to solve this problem? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u111	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Madam Secretary, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u112	Mr Vice President, honourable Members, Members of Parliament, Mr Prevc! Thank you for the question and for the concern about obtaining permits for cutting or cutting down the forest for agricultural purposes. As you have already found, until the entry into force of the Law on the Construction of Buildings, the Forestry Institute has issued permits under Article 21 of the Law on Forests for agricultural purposes. With effect from 1 January 2003, when the building law entered into force, which no longer provided for the granting of licences for these operations, the administrative unit for such interventions did not issue it at the premises and therefore did not have a forest consent authority. The Ministry of Agriculture was aware of the problem and already in May 2003 with a letter, a request from the Ministry of Environment and Space asking: Is it possible to deal with forest deforestation issues for agricultural purposes according to the old system? The Ministry of Environment and Space is of the view that spatial planning acts need to be amended for these interventions. You have found that this is a long-term process, at least a year or more, and that of course these interventions are somehow hampered. Notwithstanding this finding, the Ministry has achieved that, in the spatial order of Slovenia, provision is made for the areas of intertwined forestry and agricultural activities to be determined by specific spatial units in which the share of the forest permitted to be shrinked for agricultural purposes is defined. This is the second paragraph of Article 75 of this Spatial Order of the RS. This means, on the basis of this provision, that the municipality will define in its spatial order the areas of intertwined forestry and agricultural activities, the deforestation of the forest for agricultural purposes may be carried out on the basis of the local information of the municipality and the decision of the forest institution. However, the current regime is somewhat facilitated. During this time, the problem is solved in two ways: if in a spatial act of the municipality the area that the owner wants to dispossess is defined as an agricultural land and in fact it is in the nature of the forest, the owner of the land acquires only the location information and the assessment of the forest plant of the cutting decision. In the event that in the spatial act of the municipality the area which the owner wishes to dispossess is defined as a forest, it is necessary to amend or supplement the spatial planning acts of the municipality in advance and then obtain the location information and, after the assessment of the forest establishment, also an appropriate decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u113	Thank you, Madam Secretary. The Member does not wish to supplement the reply, so it is up to Mr Mag. Milan Cwickl, who's going to ask the Minister of Finance a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u114	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Madam Minister, Ministers, Members and Members of Parliament! As the leader of the working group of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to negotiate the following financial perspective, I ask the Minister of Finance: What is the importance of the last proposal of the Luxembourg Presidency for further development, public finances and economic growth in the Republic of Slovenia? Although this could concern other members of the working group, Mr State Secretary in the Office of the Prime Minister or the Director of the Government Regional Development Service, the Minister of Finance, as Head of the Working Group, is most responsible for this issue. That's why I'm expecting an answer from you. On the grounds that I am asking this question, I am drawing on the less known facts that in Slovenia, despite the constitutional provisions, despite the law on cooperation between the government and the national assembly in the field of European affairs, this fundamental rule that we form our positions in the national assembly is no longer respected. Today we rarely have the opportunity to see the Minister of Finance in the National Assembly after two months, and we can ask him what the other colleagues, the European finance ministers, explained last weekend. The question, Mr Minister, is simple: What is the position of the Republic of Slovenia on the European budget? You told the media that you believe that an agreement on this will be made in June this year. But what agreement will be made? You didn't even know what a common consumption is for Slovenia on Saturday. Let me remind you, however, that this National Assembly has repeatedly stressed that we are in favour of the Commission's proposal, both in scope and structure, which means, at best, 80 billion or for two Housing Markets, because in these days this is a lot of use, the envisaged net budget income each year. The only thing you were able to say last Saturday was that Slovenia expects it to be a net recipient of the European Union funds. In no way should there be a net salary, you said. But the net payer is anyone who doesn't have a negative position, so enough that we have 1 tolar over zero or maybe one billion over the border. I ask you, Minister, very concretely: What is the position? What range between 1 billion and 80 billion each year is the limit at which you, as finance minister, will persist as the leader of the working group, and in this regard will also receive the appropriate support of other ministers and, in particular, governments as a whole? I'm asking for an answer so I can ask you another question.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u115	Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u116	Thank you so much for asking. The Slovenian government's position on the European Commission's proposal is well known, it has already been highlighted - not once, repeatedly. All our representatives at all meetings in Brussels or elsewhere have expressed our support for the European Commission's proposal and seen it as a good starting point for further negotiations. As you know, negotiations on the next financial perspective on the EU budget are currently taking place on the basis of the methodology of the so-called negotiating framework presented by the Luxembourg Presidency for the first time in March. The negotiating framework opens up the possibility of discussion within all six headings and subtitles of the following financial perspective. This is competitiveness, cohesion, natural resources, citizenship, freedom, security and justice, the EU as a global partner and administrative expenditure. At the same time, this negotiating framework or its "shelting box" also raises issues at the budget's revenue position in the direction of better revenue structure and the elimination of excessive imbalances between Member States, although no proposal has yet been made. The negotiating framework is essentially a non-binding Presidency document, aimed at bringing Member States' views as quickly as possible and as easily as possible to the scope and content of the next financial perspective and, on the basis of this, reaching a compromise agreement as soon as possible. The negotiating framework is not yet a compromise proposal on the basis of which a political agreement could be reached in June this year. Slovenia, in the negotiations - as I mentioned at the outset - has always come from the assessment that the Commission's proposal constitutes a good basis for further negotiations. This assumes that this is the Commission's proposal, the average level of expenditure of 1.14% of gross national income at the time of the next financial perspective. The Commission's proposal, however, is mainly faced with the demands of the six largest countries, which are net payers requiring a limit of the average level of expenditure to 1% of GNI. Slovenia has never defined itself to a specific level of expenditure, but the structure of the expenditure itself is more important to us. In this context, an agreement on cohesion policy is crucial for Slovenia. At the end of April, the Luxembourg Presidency first outlined its negotiating framework with a more specific proposal for reaching a compromise. The latter does not yet contain any amounts of the scope of the following financial perspective or scope for other subtitles, but indicates the direction in which the Luxembourg Presidency intends to conduct further negotiations. It is clear from the recast negotiating framework that the Presidency intends to propose a reduction in consumption in all sub-titles of the following financial perspective, which has not yet been specifically written down, but on any lower than the Commission's proposal. The proposal currently covers only the area of cohesion policy, which is, as it is said, a priority for Slovenia and has already been reported to the European Commission of this National Assembly. The proposal was presented by the Presidency for the different assumptions setting out the cohesion envelopes for each region only by the ranges of possible values, which are generally lower than the European Commission's proposal, as I have already mentioned. In doing so, it was difficult for all members to be affected by the reduction [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] and not just some recipient countries. [[...]] In the renewed negotiating framework, Slovenia opposes a significant reduction in the resources foreseen by the Luxembourg Presidency, at least at this stage, only within the framework of cohesion. We believe that the reduction of the expenditure of the European Union in the next financial perspective can be made at the expense of the areas of the Union that are lagging behind in development. We have already presented this position to the Luxembourg Presidency on bilateral [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] the discussions, as well as the other Member States. [[...]] On the basis of the talks, I assess that the new proposal gives a clear signal that the Presidency wants to bring the negotiations to an end during its term of office, but that, although we are optimistic, we cannot ensure that it will be successful. Obviously, the Presidency already has a compromise proposal that has not yet been made available [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u117	Mr. Secretary, time.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u118	"and intends to present it in pieces, perhaps in the next 10 or 14 days. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u119	You will be able to continue with the additional question, we need to stick to the rules. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u120	If you'll excuse me, please, this is a very important question. Mr. Squeakl has repeatedly asked about these matters and would like to finish.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u121	I am sure that he will ask you an additional question, and you will be able to use the extra time to follow the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u122	Slovenia is prepared for these negotiations, preparing itself as one would expect in such matters, in fact also with the help of external advisers, institutions, economic colleges, as it has done in the past. We are confident that when these proposals actually come and will be available to us, we will also know that we will take the right positions and also speak in good time in this national assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u123	Thank you very much. And again, I'd like you all to stick to the time dose. Mr. Members, would you like to complete your response?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u124	Sure, take a look! What the Minister has read has long been known to us. A few meetings of the Committee on European Affairs read the same thing to us. I don't want that, Mr. Secretary. I want you to tell the Slovenian public whether you're satisfied with 80 or 1 billion. Why is that important, Mr. Secretary? On Sunday evening, at the edge of the meeting of European foreign ministers and ministers for European affairs, the European Affairs Committee is invited to start a conclamation at which each country should make its views known. You have not been able to tell us today a very simple question - what else is acceptable for Slovenia? The messages we receive are that everything is acceptable for Slovenia only to end in June. However, the entire Slovenian public could have read the analysis, a very concrete analysis by the main actors of such analyses, which should be very well known to you as the leader of the working group, that there is, of course, a range of about 20 to 80 billion, between 20 billion and 80 billion, but not that range - whatever. What I want to protest, of course, is that, because you do not respect the law on cooperation between the Government and the National Assembly, you did not first explain this position to the Luxembourg Presidency. Of course, why didn't you - because you told us on the European Affairs Committee that it was pointless to show calculations. Minister, you are the leader of the working group, you are negotiating on behalf of the Republic of Slovenia, not on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia! And gentlemen sitting in Brussels are representatives of the Republic of Slovenia and we have a law, we have a constitution and, of course, we want to discuss this here. But don't do this to us. You read us things that we know. Of course, we know how to negotiate, but we need a negotiating basis for which you must get a mandate here in this national assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u125	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Minister, would you like to comment?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u126	There was no similar question; there were only a few evaluations. However, I would like to use this time to say definitively that what the Member asked what was going on at the end of the week. For the first time, in a strictly informal way, a debate has been opened behind closed doors not only on how the expenditure will actually be shared and on what the total sum will be - as has been so far under the Dutch Presidency and so far with the Luxembourg Presidency - but on the subject of revenue has opened up. Of course, when it comes to income, the so-called own income, own resources, and this is the question of the UK's return. There we all expressed ours - which we actually came to the word. I can tell you what I told you, what others are, but not because it was a closed meeting. Very few countries in addition to Britain agree with this approach and we would like to continue it. In any case, this is something that has occurred in the past of EU history. As much as there was an excuse for being such a basis, circumstances have changed so much that no one supports such an approach anymore. However, we do not yet have a proposal from the Presidency on expenditure and revenue. I believe that many, too, would like to have some numbers to play with. For the time being, we have only ranges and within these ranges we are preparing different scenarios so that we can react in time and also. Otherwise, I'd say the government took responsibility for that. We know what our responsibility is, we know that other smart people in Slovenia are, that we do not have a monopoly on intelligence, but we cannot accept that some think they have a monopoly and that only they can represent Slovenia's interests. I strongly reject that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u127	Procedurally, mag. Squeak.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u128	Procedurally. Of course, I am not satisfied with the answer, so I request that, under Article 246, paragraph 2, the National Assembly decide to discuss the Minister's response, which, of course, was not the answer to what will be discussed next week or what happened last weekend, at the next meeting. In this regard, before the 22 May Conclaves, we will also possibly propose an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly on European matters, because this is an important issue concerning all those who, of course, want Slovenia well, and it is not about who is more or less smart. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u129	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. As you know, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we will decide on your proposal tomorrow in the framework of the vote. Let's keep asking questions. It is only Mr Bevk who will ask the Minister for Higher Education, Science and Technology.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u130	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! The Botanical Garden, founded as a garden of native flora, celebrated its 195th anniversary this spring. Five years from now, we'll be celebrating his 200th anniversary. Ljubljana became the main city of the Illyrian provinces in 1810. Naturalist Franz Hladnik, born in Idrija, the first director and founder of the garden, managed to preserve the garden with the return of the Austrian authorities. The garden, thanks to him, continued its work, which continues unceasingly to this day. In addition to NUK, this is most likely the oldest uninterrupted operating facility in our country. Nevertheless, the botanical species in Ljubljana, compared with others in our area, which are significantly younger, has no national importance on the part of the state of regulated status of the institution, such as gardens in Budapest, Graz, Zagreb, Belgrade and Brussels. As early as 1974, a decision was taken to plant a new garden in front of the zoo under Rožnik. There are 20 hectares of land purchased there today, and an entry facility is being built, and it is already occupied by another activity. The fact is that the current garden on Izanska Road does not have adequate conditions or sufficient personnel. Although we had a botanical garden in Ljubljana 16 years earlier than in the current capital of the European Union in Brussels, unfortunately we are no longer comparable to it. Today, there are almost as many covered areas as the entire territory of our garden. Albania also has a botanical garden in Tirana with 15 hectares of land. The fact is that the conventions signed oblige us to have plants that protect plants at alternative growth sites. The world of plants is part of that palpable world that surrounds us all the time, that we meet with it every day, and we know less about it. From primary and secondary school programmes, this topic is increasingly moving away, thus losing the necessary education for an appropriate attitude towards nature and its protection. I ask Minister Zupan: How is the announcement of the Botanical Garden in Ljubljana a monument to the formation of the nature of national importance? Is the two-hundredth anniversary of the Botanical Garden being prepared as the oldest garden in Southeast Europe? How does it plan to finance the activities of the garden and the relationship between the government, the university and the municipality of Ljubljana? Ter: What are the plans by continuing to build or expand the Botanical Garden at a new location under Rožnik? Thank the Minister very much for the answers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u131	Thank you very much, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u132	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, distinguished colleague Sam Bevk. I must say that I thank you for this question, which is extremely important and extremely accurate. In fact, the Botanical Garden was established in 1810, Mr Fran Hladnik founded it in the time of the Illyrian provinces and at that time was about 33 acres, then under the guidance of all these enthusiasts and under the influence of Mr. Hladnik, who so took the stand that even the Austrians then kept the garden and even increased it. In fact, the Botanical Garden in Slovenia is the oldest educational and higher education institution that has served continuously for almost 100 years for education in this area. The fact is that this institution has been doing one of the most important services in our country, as far as biodiversity is concerned, for cooperation and everything else in this area, and has been growing all the time until it reached about two and a half hectares by 1946, and then because of this scarring and the traffic scar that has compressed it between the road and the railway, the garden has lost about half a hectare and since then we can say that it is in inappropriate circumstances. In fact, it was already decided in 1974 that the Faculty of Biotechnical Technology would transfer this garden to the Pink Valley, where 20 hectares were bought, which is in fact slightly higher than the average gardens of this species in Europe, so it is appropriate. This was purchased, and a plant was built, but it has not yet been built. The carrier of this is the Biotech University. The Ministry of Higher Education is aware of the importance of this very, very important facility and we are also preparing everything to be celebrated in five years' time when the 200th anniversary of this important facility will be properly celebrated. That is why we have called for coordination. The problem, of course, is that it is somehow a child of four parents, it is the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology, the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Culture, and there is also the Institute for the Protection of Cultural Heritage and the City of Ljubljana. We've called a meeting, it's already in reference, and at this we're going to coordinate the action to determine the status. In 1991, this garden had the status of a monument of a fashioned nature, which does not provide funding. It is about becoming this cultural monument of national importance, which requires 100% funding. For 100% of the funding we need to provide adequate resources in the 2006 and 2007 budget, and we need to do so at this meeting or in the next budget. I hope you'll support this, we're preparing it, and it'll be done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u133	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Member of the Commission. Complementation of reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u134	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, Dr. Zupan, thank you very much for your answers. It is quite certain that the call for coordination between all these institutions is encouraged in order to agree on status and funding. Of course, I wonder if you would also like to continue building or expanding the botanical garden at a new location under Rožnik, because I think this is the right location for the new development of this garden. However, I would like to point out the human resources deficit in this garden and I would like to ask you something about it. In fact, the botanical garden has only five employees. That's very little. The head of the garden with a doctorate is funded by the Ljubljana Municipality, while your ministry provides a salary for the remaining four workers, this is one with a secondary school, two with a two-year vocational school and one unqualified worker, and for the activity currently provides, as far as I know, only 6 million tolls from the budget to maintain this garden. Similar botanical gardens in EU capitals have between 20 and 25 employees. It is said that almost four or five times as much as is the case in Ljubljana. That is why I am interested, Mr Minister: Can we hope more in the future in the human resources sense that you may hire someone else with appropriate professional qualifications? [[with a doctorate in science]] ? For this garden certainly needs additional experts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u135	Thank you. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u136	Thank you very much for this additional question. The thing is, it's in the personnel domain of the biotech college, so it's actually in their personnel plan. I personally am very committed to this because it seems to me that such an old and respectable institution must have it, that Ljubljana must also support it as the center of Slovenia. In addition, we know that we have a botanical garden in Maribor, Juliana and elsewhere. So we have to worry about it because it's important to Slovenia. Costs are also important. When we weigh all of these, we will be within - I think at 20 hectares compared to 2 hectares, of course, it is perfectly clear that this needs additional employment. How much is this going to cost, of course? Desires are great, but we'll have to do it slowly. It is clear, however, that within the limits of our options, we will handle this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u137	Thank you very much, Minister. I invite Mr Mir Petk to ask the Minister of Justice a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u138	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members, Members, the Ministerial Assembly, in particular Minister Lovro Šturm, to whom I refer this question. The Municipality of Črna na Koroškem is one of those Slovenian municipalities where development is lagging behind due to long-term denationalisation processes. More than a quarter of the territory of the municipality of Montenegro in Koroškem is in a process of denationalisation that has lasted for more than a decade. In this narrow valley there are already no surfaces for residential construction, and in the process of denationalisation there is also one rare flat area, which is an ex-trape of martyrs, where economic activity can be developed. Due to the denationalisation of the abandoned and unregulated area, the municipality is annually deprived of about 3 million tolars as much as it would otherwise have received in the budget for building land compensation. The Thurn Valsassina family from Pliberk in Austria Koroška is the one who submitted a request for the return of property in the Mežiska valley and also elsewhere in Slovenia. For the municipality of Montenegro alone, this share is 3,732 hectares of agricultural land and forests. And the return of this property to the Austrian earl Thurn family in the mid-1990s was among the most exposed cases of denationalisation in the country, and it also contributed greatly to the moratorium on the implementation of the law and fostered some subsequent changes in the denationalisation law. In addition to legal changes, Thurn’s case of denationalisation was also made by decisions of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, and this application has not been completed for more than a decade. The conclusion of this case is of paramount importance for all four municipalities in the Mežiška Valley and from Montenegro to Raven in Koroška, as well as for the denationalisation beneficiary himself. For in this long-lasting excuse there are great costs. I therefore ask the Minister: At what stage is this case at hand? When will this procedure end? Further, if there is a return of this property: Will and how much will it be returned in nature? I am aware that the case is very complicated and that it is a big deal, and yet I am also asking the question: Is it not possible to move a little faster in legal and judicial proceedings in such cases? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u139	Thank you very much, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Secretary, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u140	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Thank you for the question, honourable Member Miro Petek. In the introduction, I should like to point out that the Ministry of Justice only acts as a coordinator and co-ordinator between the individual administrative authorities in the process of denationalisation. The denationalisation procedures shall lead and determine matters only by means of a law on denationalisation of certain administrative bodies and, if there is a dispute, of course, by independent and independent courts. In the light of the question raised, the Ministry of Justice immediately asked the administrative unit Ravna in Koroška, which is locally competent to decide on the application, for an explanation. The Chief of Administrative Unit Ravne na Koroškem, Mrs Vlasta Boznik, has already given us a reply today, which I summarize briefly below, and we will transmit the full answer to you, honourable Member, in writing separately. What is the main content of this answer that we have received? The Administrative Unit of Ravne na Koroška in the case of denationalisation is in charge of two beneficiaries; so that it would not only talk about the family of Turn Valsassina, but about two members of this family, because the procedure is different for one and the other. For the first of the members named Alexander Vincenc Georg Thorn Valsassina, born in 1905, the decision on denationalisation is already final, but is not yet legally binding. What does that mean? This means that the administrative unit has completed its work, but the court has not yet completed its work, because the case is in court because an administrative dispute is ongoing in the Supreme Court. This is a claim, as you mentioned, for the property of most agricultural land and forests in the range of 3,732 hectares located in the municipality of Črna na Koroškem. In its decision, the administrative unit relied on the fact that the designated beneficiary was not considered a citizen of the People’s Republic of Slovenia and of the Yugoslav national at the time of its accession. The decision of the administrative unit, the Department of Internal Affairs, concerning the identification of nationality, by issuing a Supreme Court judgment which ruled in an administrative dispute against the administrative court’s judgment in this matter, i.e. as regards nationality, became legal on 10 October 2001. Therefore, after this decision on citizenship had been adopted not to be considered a citizen, the administrative unit, of course, issued an appropriate decision rejecting the application, as we see it. However, there is an administrative dispute against this decision, which is currently before the Supreme Court. So you want to know when this administrative dispute will be resolved. I cannot say anything about specific matters, this is the exclusive competence of the Supreme Court. But I can only inform you that I already had a good month's conversation in the Supreme Court, in the Senate, where I was talking about the denationalisation problem. I have warned that these matters must be resolved as quickly as possible, and I have been assured that these matters will be resolved by autumn of this year. I hope that this will also be the case, when this matter becomes also closed and legally binding. In the second minor case concerning the beneficiary named Alexsander George Gisslen Thorn Vals assina, this is another matter. This beneficiary, born in 1879, was a Yugoslav national and was therefore also a beneficiary of denationalisation, but the administrative unit by decision returned this state property only in the form of Slovenian compensation company bonds. The decision became legally binding on 29 June 2004 and this process of denationalisation has been fully completed. This, of course, means that that other beneficiary’s property will not be returned.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u141	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. He wants to. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u142	I am satisfied with the answer and thank you again.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u143	Thank you very much, Mr. Ambassador. We're moving on. I ask Ambassador Darjo Lavtijar Bebler whether she nevertheless wishes to raise a question with the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Yes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u144	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! At the edge of the recent session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in Strasbourg, there were serious criticisms at the expense of President Ovsa, Minister for Foreign Affairs of Dr Rupl, regarding his last visit to Azerbaijan. Especially Swiss Member Andreas Gross, rapporteur for Azerbaijan of the Council of Europe, drew attention to the extremely complex situation in this country ahead of this year's parliamentary elections, which many experts believe will certainly not be free and fair. Especially after the fraud and resulting unrest at the October 2003 presidential elections and at the December December local elections. In such situations, the Slovenian Foreign Minister, during his visit to Azerbaijan, was expected to take about an hour and a half to talk to President Aliyev and to pay only a short period of attention to the opposition, which the opposition later bitterly criticised. As is clear from the discussion for Work, it was published on 28 April this year, Member Gross said, quote: "From Rupl's visit to Baku they make fun even in the office of President Ali. President Ousse brought with him a larger group of Slovenian economists. He seems to have been more interested in Slovenian businesses in Azerbaijan than in the mission of Ousse, which should have been his first concern. That's not how international diplomacy works. The hole with such moves only reduces the reputation of an organisation that is already in the consultative space and thus does not take it seriously enough. It's the degradation of Ovsei. In its own way, it is possible to talk about some kind of corruption, because it is not the case that President Ousse has taken care of business on behalf of his country on such routes" - the end of the quote. What message, therefore, should the President-in-Office of this country, where the situation concerning human rights, plural democracy and the rule of law is of great concern? There are a large number of political prisoners in the country, the government is relentlessly persecuting independent journalists, and the authorities are corrupt to the point. Was it also a message that the favour of the Slovenian economy on the part of Azerbaijan would have an impact on the more favourable Ousse report on the political situation in that country? I therefore ask the Minister to provide an oral explanation of these findings at the next meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u145	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. We continue with the question put by Mr Srečko Friends to the Minister for Environment and Space.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u146	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, distinguished ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I ask Mr Podobnik: Will the strategy in the Ministry of Environment and Space in preserving Slovenian properties and cultural heritage be better for Slovenians and Slovenians in the future? Here, in particular, I mean that part that has a small purchasing power, which cannot afford to afford its facades and its facilities, which, while having a good cultural heritage and which are often also under the protection of a monument, legally protect and regulate so that with the help of the ministry or government, sufficient understanding and resources can be found to enable us to preserve this very important heritage by means of budgetary resources. For we know that if we look only beyond the border, and look at the oldest capital of Austria-Hungarian, this is Vienna, that it has modelly decorated old buildings, monuments and cultural heritage, and many times with us this is neglected. I come from Crassus alone, and I feel very bad when I watch very old portals, when they fail, but they wear an envious year of 1800, 1700. Of course, the poor part of the population that lives on the outskirts of cities does not have the money to repair it and preserve it for future generations. Dear Minister: Will you be able to provide in your mandate a legal preamble and a basis for us to find these resources in our budgets if we find funds for all other necessary, unnecessary matters? I think it is up to us to preserve this cultural heritage and thus the environment, and given that you are an environmental minister, I would ask you if you could give me an answer, because the historians will be grateful if we leave a preserved cultural heritage a regulated environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u147	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u148	Thank you for your word. Your Honor, Mr. Ambassador Friend. I thank you for that question. First of all, among the Slovenian architecture profession is that it highly appreciates the building heritage of Slovenian Crassus. Although your question is partly related to the cultural sector. This is a classic cross-cutting issue, and I can only assure you that the latest analyses that we have done as we prepare the changes to the national housing programme have also shown that the distribution and differentiation between the population has also led to a change in the quality of living in Slovenian settlements and that there have also been unpredictable changes in the maintenance of buildings and apartments. Even in their use, including in their updating and also in the accessibility of individual social groups to suitable accommodations, the role of urban centres has been observed in particular. In particular, this applies to suburbanised rural areas. Although we are not fully competent in the environment and space, I can assure you that through various legislative measures, which I will count, even through the activities of the housing fund of the Republic of Slovenia, the public fund, we want to specifically promote the renovation of the existing housing fund, not just the new ones, but also the work of cultural heritage. In particular, the Housing Fund, in its latest call for a programme to promote the provision of non-profit rents in municipalities for 2005, has provided, among other things, municipalities, non-profit housing organisations and public real estate funds with favourable long-term loans for the renovation of the existing housing fund. I hope that this instrument will be used. Another time. Natural persons participating in and saving under the national housing savings scheme shall have the express right to use the savings also for the reconstruction of dwellings or residential buildings. In the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the National Housing Savings Scheme Act, we have drawn up a proposal on the proposal of the Ministry of Culture to add a provision that these funds will also explicitly be intended for the renovation of old dwellings or residential buildings. Third time. I have information that individual municipalities promote the renovation of the housing fund, including, for example, some larger municipalities, which have more resources here, with a specific loan each year, providing loans for these purposes and the applicable land regulation law allows municipalities to adopt a location plan whereby real estate owners prescribe the obligation to renovate the housing fund in the area they set out in the plan. This solution is not the most pleasant, but it can be very concrete and successful. We will be interested to know which congregation will be the first to make such a move. As I have already said in the introduction, the emphasis on the transformation in direction, as you announce in your question, will also be given to the changes in the national housing route that is in preparation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u149	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u150	Dear Minister! If the State imposes an obligation, then this obligation should also be financed. I believe that, particularly for the periphery, these are villages and villages with a rich cultural heritage, the government should find special resources, an appropriate law to restore this cultural heritage and the environmental situation that governs the individual areas. Of course, you only partially answered my question and I am not entirely satisfied. If we have money, budgetary resources for a variety of government aircraft, which cost a lot more when we have to deduct them, then we will also have to model the environment, which is in some way our pride.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u151	Thank you. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u152	If you have any further questions about the financial resource, I would like to answer the following questions. In the past, the CRPOV instrument, the integrated rural development and the reconstruction of the village have been known, and it has also invested very specifically in some of the smaller urban centres in the countryside in the buildings you are talking about. I believe, however, that in the new financial perspective, there is an opportunity for us to apply for European funding through structural projects. This is one of the possible sources, but there are others. As it is said, the housing fund will give priority to such construction by means of tenders. The same applies to the national austerity scheme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u153	Thank you very much. The next is Mr Ivan Yelen, who will ask the Minister of Defence a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u154	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Honourable Members and Members, Honourable Minister and Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia! Today, I would like to raise a question with the Minister of Defence concerning the coordination between the defence system and the system of protection against natural and other disasters. In the presentation of the Ministry of Defence programme, it has been repeatedly stressed that you will increase the involvement of the Slovenian Armed Forces in the implementation of the tasks of protection and resolution against natural and other disasters and will only align it with the defence system. In this regard, many citizens from my Savinja region ask me: What systems of protection against natural and other disasters did the Slovenian Army design in its system documents? As far as I am aware, these days, preparations for the amendment of the Firearms Act are being completed, but I have not observed anywhere that anything would have happened with regard to the implementation of the announcement you made earlier this year regarding the coordination between the defence system and the system of protection against natural and other disasters. So I ask you, Mr Minister: Does this perhaps mean that the assistance of the Slovenian Armed Forces in the event of natural and other disasters is no longer a central priority? Can we therefore conclude that you have other plans in your strategic plans and that the system of protection against natural and other disasters is no longer a central priority?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u155	Thank you. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u156	Dear Vice-President, honourable Members and honourable Members! In the implementation of defence reforms, the integration between the two subsystems remains, namely the Slovenian Armed Forces and protection and resolution, and remains a priority to increase and strengthen this integration. The point is that we want to increase efficiency when there is a natural disaster. It is also a rational use of the equipment that the State has. It is the fact that the Slovenian army has in its units certain equipment and resources that can contribute in the event of natural disasters to reducing the damage or to reducing the consequences of the natural disaster. Let me say that your statement that there is nothing written in the Firearms Act about this because it is regulated by other documents. Let me also say that other countries are increasingly trying to connect and complement these two systems as much as possible. Let me say, for example, that within the Slovenian army we have, I don't know, an RKB unit, it's a radio-chemical-biological unit, which, of course, can be very beneficial in the face of a biological, chemical disaster, especially if it's caused by industry. So at the moment, we have within the framework of the rapid intervention force, these are the forces that are in NATO's framework, the decontamination unit that is ready to intervene at any moment if there is a disaster somewhere. The documents governing this integration are a state plan adopted by the government in February, namely a state rescue and protection plan in the event of the use of funds for mass destruction or in relation to international terrorism. There are three points of cooperation: RKB unit because it is chemical, biological, then military aviation and military health. Let me say that a similar document was adopted in March, namely a state plan for protection and rescue in the event of major natural fires. In this plan we have also identified the use of a helicopter unit in the event of a major fire. Let me say that on April 6th and 7th, when there was a fire in the upper valley of Berebica, the helicopter was also used for these purposes for the first time. Let me say that concrete cooperation is also among the two subsystems in various joint training programmes. So let me say that we are jointly training the military and firefighters to obtain category C for driving licences for category C. Then we are preparing a programme for the Slovenian Army to educate a certain number of members of the Slovenian army so that we can later enter them into military records as a firefighter. This means that some members of the Slovenian army would also be trained to shut down. Let me say that we are also conducting joint training on the destruction of unexploded ordnance. Here, of course, the military is training for members of security and rescue. Then let me say, for example, that from June onwards, the Slovenian army will also participate in the mountain rescue service, as part of the weekend shifts, where military helicopters will also work alongside the police. Let me say that at the state exercise, which will be held in Bled at the end of May, it is a fire, for example, in tourist facilities. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] The Slovenian army will also be very actively involved with helicopters that will fire from Lake Bled in the Park Hotel. [[...]] These activities are many, but they are activities that are regulated in other documents, not in the Fire Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u157	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Ambassador, is there an extra one? Thank you very much. Mr Aleš Gulič is next to raise a question for the Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u158	Mr. President-in-Office. Madam Minister, Madam Ministers, Members and Members of Parliament. I ask the question to Mr Dragutin Mate, Minister of the Interior. This is a question that concerns traffic safety in the grave. Mr Minister, during the time after you took your post, you have made quite a number of work visits throughout Slovenia, especially at police stations. I am counting on the purpose of all these visits to familiarise ourselves with the work of police officers, with the security, transport conditions in particular areas. Of course, I welcome this, because it seems very important to me that ministers in the field are also familiar with what is happening to those who have jobs and work in the field. Even at the first meeting, you said at the presentation of your plans that you would somehow bring the police into a community where you would act to increase the number of preventive measures in road safety. Now I wonder: Have these visits not strengthened your belief in the correctness of these statements, since I feel that these measures have not yet been implemented, although since the beginning of the ministry has been five and a few months, and also, what we know about traffic safety, shows that there have been a few fewer accidents due to the long winter, that in fact the matter has been worse than it has been lately? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u159	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Minister, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u160	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, for the question, Mr Member. I've actually made quite a few visits over the last few months to the police department. This week I will conclude this round of visits, so I will visit the last police administration I have not visited in Nova Gorica. These visits were very useful in the first place, because I was able to hear firsthand, if I may say so, about the problems that occur on the ground. Some problems are also systemic in nature, so it will be easier to work together with the police leadership and create better conditions for police work. From all these visits, let me point out a few key issues. The key things that are focused on what I also said at the hearing, and about which you asked, are that the work of police officers must be directed towards the environment where they work. In Slovenia we have about 310 security environments and these police officers working in these security environments should be connected to the local environment. Of course, the process of changing the way cops think is a little longer than they would have initially imagined. It takes quite some time for police to realize that it is not only necessary to sit in cars and patrol the roads, but that we also need to walk among people and work somehow. In some environments, things are going very well, in some cases slightly slower. I have also witnessed some of the actions that the police are also doing in primary schools where things are going very well and where, if I say so, direct users, say school principals were able to say that the leaders of the security environment are advertised weekly, asking if there are problems, in short, as the work of a police officer in a local environment is supposed to do. If I focus on the more important part that you mentioned about traffic safety, I strongly appeal to police officers to apply, as far as possible, the provisions of the new Road Safety Act, which gives more opportunities for police to warn perpetrators of minor offences, if I say so, in traffic. According to statistics available, it can be found that for the same period last year and this year, which is the only comparable period, for more than 50% less than last year's or more than 50% less infringements were detected or fined for these violations. At the same time, it increased the number of warnings. So the number of warnings, if we look at the numbers, we've increased by five times, but if we look at the percentages, we're looking at nine times. So last year, 2% of the warnings given by police officers to drivers were given during this period, which is already 18% this year. It is said that the relationship is slowly changing, and with such work forward we will be able to make a substantial change. I would also point out that as soon as I arrived at the Ministry, when I took a closer look at the mandatory guidelines issued by the Minister to the police for the preparation of the annual plan, I issued additional guidelines and mandatory instructions on 20 December, where I am under point 2, Implementing the strategic objectives, stated that the police should pay particular attention to the methods and forms of preventive work. This was then translated into work plans, and this also led to increased preventive police work in the area of traffic offences. If I am also talking about absolute numbers, how many warnings have been given - over 17,000 in 95,000 violations that have been detected. During last year, over 181,000 violations were detected and only 3,600 warnings were given. The police are also carrying out various actions at the same time. Here I have a list of 16 different actions, of course areas of action being carried out in the territory of all Slovenia, where police are actively involved in workshops, lectures, illustrations of how helmets and belts are used safely. You can also see today some actions carried out with jumbo posters, with guided actions aimed at secure child bonding, and some others. If you would like more detailed information on which actions the police have led this year, I can tell you today very comprehensively or also in writing, on which police administrations and to what extent and how many people have been involved.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u162	Thank you very much for your answer. I'd really like to ask for what you've offered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u163	Thank you both. We're moving on. Mr Aurelio Juri will ask the Minister of Transport a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u164	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary, have a nice day! I repeat and supplement what I asked you in writing last month and what remains to be answered. It's the next one. All those who believe in the development opportunities and potentials of the port of Cyprus and in that its competitiveness is particularly high or falls on the second track project of Koper-Divač and in many ways also on the expansion of pre-shipment and logistics capacities [[I'm thinking mostly about the third pier.]] , we have received with enthusiasm the news of the government's endorsement of the state's rail link plan. Not so much a forecast of its investment value, which for almost 60 billion tolars exceeded what has been in force so far and prepared by the same ministry, under the same political leadership - the former, as you know, 112 billion, the current total of 168 billion SITs. And we were even less impressed by the scepticism of Prime Minister Janez Janša in the feasibility of the project if private capital does not penetrate it strongly, which, we know, does not show enthusiasm for the chosen route and value for the time being. Since it gives me the feeling and concern that such a picture of the situation would raise doubts in the public about the relevance and economic viability of this investment or that the current government, despite the adoption of the Local Plan Regulation, does not take it very seriously, I ask: Where does the so - called difference in the valuation of an investment that many experts do not have in mind or can you justify it more articulated and convincingly? And in addition: Before adopting the location plan and preparing the investment assessment, did you consider the possibilities and proposals of the neighbours from Furlania-Julia Krajina - and to understand, I do not mean the link between Koper-Trieste - to form a route of second track and Italian connection to it together, and on the basis of cross-border cooperation, to run for any additional European money other than that already to be provided? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u165	Thank you. The minister's got it. John Christmas, he'll answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u166	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! We have already responded in writing to 12.5 and have responded to the President of the National Assembly. And for a very short time, I'm going to take this part again. The assessment of the investment value of the construction of the second track of the Divača-Koper railway line was made on the basis of the following documents. First of all, an idea project for the second track of the Divača-Koper railway line, designed by the SŽ-projective company Ljubljana in October 2001. After that, a construction-technical and transport-economic comparison of the variants of the second track of Divac-Koper was made by the Ljubljana Transport Institute in July 2001. The proposal for a state location plan for Divača-Koper was made by NS Bureau Koper in July 2004 and then a document for the identification of investment project 2, second track Divaca-Koper, Transport Institute Ljubljana, December 2004. Then there is the last document or verification: the financial plan of the public transport agency investor of January 2005. The valuation of the investment value from first to present differs by slightly less than 53.8 billion tolars. The first estimate was 114 billion 229 million and today's 168 billion. In doing so, it is important that the original assessment did not take into account the costs of carrying out the control of the landfill, land acquisition, investment documentation and some other investment costs. The current project value assessment, which is 168 billion, also includes production costs, account is taken of inflation between 2000 and 2005, documentation, project management and control, land acquisition, unforeseeable work on the level of investment preparedness and project documentation, estimated land purchase costs on the basis of the national location plan, investment documentation and risk of 3.7%. The exact investment value, as we have already said, will in fact be given only after the necessary research and studies on the ground and then on the basis of a project to obtain a building permit and investment documentation. My assessment, which was at the hearing session in the National Assembly, was, to say the simple way of checking according to the length of the route and the number of objects and the complexity and completeness of the project was already different from that of the public, namely 114 billion tolars. I didn't believe that, and later on, when we checked things, of course, we found that she was undervalued for these reasons. Perhaps I would also say that, at this stage, despite the adoption of the State's location plan, we are still exploring these options, in the framework of this project, how to carry out a potential fast railway connecting Italy through Slovenia further eastward. We are also checking the link between the Koper-Trist link within the already accepted DLN. For these options that have been discarded in the past, due to the reasons for the potentially difficult performances in this region of Crassus, we have assessed that these things need only be verified not to build and build half variants. So much for a start. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u167	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Ambassador, is there an additional answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u168	Thank you, Mr. Minister for a comprehensive response. I expect, of course, that you will also familiarize us with the news. And the additional question, if you allow, regarding the capacity of the second track is also the fate of the third pier. You've named [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u169	Mr Member, there is no additional question, you can only ask for an additional answer, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u170	I think in two words, the minister could have told me what it's like to have this interdepartmental group or work. Two months have passed and the answers are not yet about their work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u171	Thank you very much for the additional question, which was not put forward for me. The Interdepartmental Working Group, we will meet in the coming days because we are preparing some documents. We have prepared a scenario for the entire project to come up with the right answers. We have already discussed this subject at the College of Prime Minister, but we have not yet completed the discussions, but these tasks are still ongoing. We've set ourselves up pretty tight schedules. Somehow we are counting on more late in the fall to have answers to all these questions. If, of course, I exclude what is involved in the decision on what form it will be and what document it will be in the final stage of the location documentation: whether it will be a national location plan or something else.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Of course, given the hot subject, my tongue is itchy, but according to the rules of procedure, it should remain only with itchyness. That is how we proceed with the questions of the Member States. It is the turn of Mr Tomaž Šteba, who will raise the question to the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Dear Prime Minister, dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues! In the text of my question, Minister Sturm is the direct enforceability of obvious offences and the immediate action of police, inspection or municipal supervisors. The legal formulation of this problem is such: our positive legislation regulates the sanctioning of delinquencies or offences in areas where they interfere in the public interest. Of course, it is the duty of the State to sanction such offences, to regulate them, and it is clear that this is the interest of all citizens. On the other hand, such offences or offences specifically affect the rights and property of individuals, citizens. In such cases, law enforcement authorities have fewer powers and the consequence is that private individuals, as citizens, need to know for themselves in certain cases. The sanctioning of such offences, such as those not committed on public surfaces or at first sight showing no signs of interference with public interest, remains problematic. In this regard, I ask the Minister of Justice: Are there any solutions in this area of sanctioning and dealing with offences, offences committed or interfering with a private sphere where citizens are directly engaged as injured persons? I am referring to the immediate enforcement of evident breaches of the rules in the private or non-public sphere. Unlawful and evident interference with the rights of the private parties is intended to sanction and remedy the consequences of the infringement immediately upon the finding of the infringement or at the earliest possible time for a few days, so that the party to which the rights have been infringed and thereby manifestly infringes the rules does not need to enforce its rights on a legal or judicial basis. This option would have been the option of a party which has interfered with the sanctioning authorities with the apparent infringement of the rules. Infringements and actions on private property are involved in various ways. The most common are interferences with private crossings and parking lots. There are also many environmental disturbances. As mayor, I often face cases like this. In cases where a violation of the rules and unlawful interference with rights can undoubtedly be established from the documented facts, the sanctioning authorities should take immediate action rather than have to exercise the right of the party to whom the rights are being infringed through a court or administrative procedure, while suffering the situation of interference with their rights. Mr. Secretary, thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u174	Thank you for asking. Dr. Sturm, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u175	Thank you for your words, Mr President-in-Office, and thank you very much for the very important question, honourable Member. You touched on a question that went beyond the points on which it was placed. Let me first, in principle, say that the constitutional protection of private property is guaranteed primarily to private property and that, in principle, the protection of private property against public property has an advantage, because private property is not only a violation of public order in such cases, but also an infringement of human rights, because private property is one of the constitutionally protected human rights in the Republic of Slovenia, and in this case it is also a violation of human rights. The fact is that this simple fact, which is constitutionally known, is not well known in the public and I suppose is too little known among those who are in charge of the law to take care of order and the implementation of the law on offences. If such matters are dealt with differently in the applicable legislation for which the Ministry of Justice is responsible, we will examine this legislation in detail and establish an appropriate equality between the two types of property in this respect, so that there is no different treatment. However, if someone - you mentioned the parking lot - parks his car, for example at the parking place of the Ministry of Justice or if you want on the sidewalk of the National Assembly, this in itself cannot commit a more serious offence than if he does in a private parking lot. In my opinion, it is an offence to intervene in a private parking lot because of that aspect, as it is a violation of human rights. If you allow me now, if not now, then perhaps in the following replica another brief cultural historical view of this topic. As early as the 17th and 18th centuries, John Locke had warned in his discussion of rulership that private property was a condition for individual freedom and independence. And it is also little known that the crowds in the French revolution, when they made their three outstanding demands for "legality" - equality, "liberte" - freedom that they did not, as the third requirement is now said, "fraternite" - fraternity, but "proprietary" - the right to property, because it was not allowed to them and did not allow them freedom and equality. It is also true that this fact was falsified in the 19th century, especially during the period of the Paris community, and under the theories that property had developed to be theft. And in the 20th century, the systems that prevailed on the European continent, as well as in Slovenia, unfortunately continued this thought. I believe that the remains of this mentality are still present with the criminal authorities.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u176	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The Member of Parliament also wishes to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u177	Thank you very much, I do. Interesting answer, also constitutionally oriented. But this is a trivial case: when someone parks in your private parking lot, the sanctioning authorities in this case instruct the affected owner to turn to his right and enforce it through the court. Meanwhile, this vehicle or someone is parked in your private parking lot the whole time the court does its job in this country. I am talking about cases of manifest infringements where the sanctioning authorities should act immediately, as they can act and have a background in the rules, if they are an intervention in the public interest, is said to be in a public place. In this regard, I would like the Ministry to ensure that in such trivial cases, many of them are also conditioned by speculation and by neighbourhood disputes and by business prevention, so that authorities can act immediately in such cases as they can in cases of infringements, such as parking, by transporting vehicles on public surfaces.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u178	Thank you very much. It's probably the ultimate parking solution to walk. The following is Mrs Marjetka Uhan, who will ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food. Excuse me, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u179	Thank you, for your word. I agree that parking in a private parking lot is, of course, as illegal as public parking, but there is a difference in the interpretation of what is in the public interest. In my opinion, it is also in the public interest to prevent illegal parking in private areas because of human rights abuses. This, of course, is not within the competence of the Ministry of Justice, but rather within the competence of the Ministry of the Interior. However, if, as I have already said, any legal basis is such as to allow for a different interpretation, it should, in my firm belief, be changed or, if I am even more specific, criminal authorities should be as determined to persuade private parking as on public surfaces.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u180	Thank you. Apologize again to the Minister for ignoring his desire to speak. As it is said, it is Mrs Uhanova's turn to address the issue to the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u181	Thank you so much for saying that. Respectable government, Members and Members of Parliament and all others present! The Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food would ask: How will the problem of the disappearance of certain cadastral municipalities and thus agricultural areas from the list of restricted areas be addressed? Last year more than 2,000 farms and agricultural holdings in the municipality of Ivančna Gorica, Trebnje, Mirna Pec, Dolenjske Toplice, Novo mesto and Štajerska fell out of negotiations for the European Union. Although negotiators boast that 85% of the agricultural land has been classified among the mentioned factors, 2% of those areas that have already had that status in the past, such as karst areas and other limited factors, have fallen. The fact is that these areas do not differ according to production conditions from those that have been classified. Farms have thus lost financial compensation to offset production costs due to difficult production conditions, while farms not included in the OMD are limited to local community tenders, restrictions on the registration and performance of complementary activities, restrictions on investment tenders and so on. Since funding for rural development programmes is already financed in the majority of Brussels and is lost for the 2004-2006 programming period, we can deeply regret this, but you are probably looking for financial compensation from the Slovenian already poor budget. I wonder: Are you planning to provide funds from the balance sheet for each year or for these three years from 2004 to 2006 or for 2004 only? However, it is necessary to work on re-evaluation of agricultural land for the future programming period 2007-2013 and to develop criteria covering decommissioned areas. We will therefore be able to hope that the objectives of such measures, such as conservation of farms, food production, sustainable housing and preservation of cultural landscapes, will be achieved. Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u182	Thank you. Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u183	Madam Member, I thank you for your concern for the 2000 Slovenian farms, which, in the European legal order, should not be eligible for compensatory payments, but by 2004 have been defined under restricted areas. I am pleased to inform you that we have provided in the balance sheet of this year's budget the missing funds of 225 million tolars. After the rebalancing has been adopted, we will draw up an appropriate regulation, which will also serve as the basis for payment to these two thousand farms. It is valid for the period until 2007, but we will continue to work and prove with the criteria that these areas also belong in restricted areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u184	Thanks for the answer. Madam Ambassador, are you satisfied?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u185	Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u186	Thank you. Let's keep asking questions. It's Mr. Mag's turn. Borut Saiovic, who will also question the same minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u187	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Nice greetings to the Minister and the rest of the Council of Ministers and to all present! My question concerns the resolution of significant complaints, namely the reduction of backlogs in the resolution of complaints in administrative proceedings. This is the moment, I think, in Slovenian agriculture certainly one of the important and also in view of the morals of our agriculture, the priorities of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food. When presenting the state of the Ministry, you provided information that at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, as a secondary body, there are as many as 5,467 complaints against decisions of the Agency for Agricultural Markets and Rural Development, the veterinary administrations of the Republic of Slovenia, the Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Agriculture, Forestry and Food and, of course, the agricultural and agricultural chambers of Slovenia, the Institute for Forest Slovenia and the decisions of administrative units. I wonder: How many of these complaints have the Ministry managed to resolve at this time? What was the impact of the new complaints during this period? At that time, was it possible to develop a recovery program to resolve these matters sooner and faster in the future? What activities are carried out if it is a rehabilitation programme? What does it contain? At the same time, I would like to ask you for information on the dynamics of the fulfilment of the outstanding liabilities under subsidies for the previous year, as some beneficiaries on the ground say they have not yet received all the subsidies. I am also interested in: at what stage are the legal bases for the organisation of the so-called mutual insurance institution in the event of natural disasters in agriculture, given that you were personally in charge of this project prior to the appointment of the Minister at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food. According to your assessment, if it is more or less prepared, I wonder: When will we be able to enter this important measure for Slovenian agriculture actively? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u188	Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u189	I thank you for the question, which is very large. He claims that I inherited 5,467 outstanding complaints on my appointment as Minister. We have taken the matter seriously and to date resolved 807 complaints by the following types: meliorations and commissions - 11, protected farms - 13, denationalisation - 159 complaints, in the area of resolution of the agri-land chamber 17, veterinary inspection - 18 complaints, legal [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] 59, agricultural inspection - 46 and agency complaints - 484 complaints, a little less than one quarter of these complaints, inherited complaints. [[...]] In the last two months, however, there have been new complaints. It's an alarming condition. We are thinking about how to speed things up, whether or not to improve the preparation of decisions at the first stage. Undoubtedly, it is a situation where at least once more personnel should be employed if they want to get things into some current state of affairs. We'll try to speed up this work with our internal reserves. There will undoubtedly be some new employment in this area. However, we are also preparing an agency law, which will be based in particular on the determination of procedures in the Agency for Agricultural Markets. We have also established electronic data entry this year. It's about filing applications. A number of controls have also been introduced into this programme, which, according to our assessment, will significantly reduce the number of errors in these roles. This, of course, will result in a smaller number of complaints against these procedures. As regards the second issue, the dynamics of meeting the outstanding liabilities of subsidies. In full, the funds paid for the economy are zero, meaning subsidies, restricted areas or compensatory payments and payments from the SKO programme. This is a Slovenian agricultural environmental programme, but applications for all animal premiums for 2004 have not yet been paid, where the European legal order is until 30 June. We will also respect this deadline. Support for the implementation of EU standards or the so-called Nitrate Directive, payment deadline 2006 is also 2004 but the Agency has been accredited and will start issuing its first decision in August this year. There is another special measure - early retirement, where we received about 198 applications. The Agency has obtained accreditation in those days and the first decisions will be issued in June 2005. With regard to mutual insurance in agriculture, it is true that I was in charge of the Ministry of Implementation of this project, that the project was fully developed last year. However, the budget does not provide around 2 billion necessary funds in this year's balance sheet to ensure co-financing of insurance premiums and, of course, costs for the establishment of this system. We have decided on the government to put the project in place in the following year, according to the necessary financial resources of course. An additional argument for the postponement of this measure is also the fact that new joint measures for the management of agricultural risks are being prepared in the European Commission, and it would therefore be unwise at this point to establish a system that may need to be complemented later. The area of assistance for natural disasters is regulated by the Systemic Law on the Elimination of the Consequences of Natural Disasters, adopted in 2003 in the National Assembly. We have requested a transitional period in Brussels, which means we can carry it out for another two years. However, a new system is urgently needed during this period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u190	Thank you. Mr. Ambassador, are you satisfied?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u191	Thank you very much. I'm happy with the answer. Nevertheless, I would like to ask for further clarification. I would like to ask: Do we retain those payments relating to the amendment of the new tax legislation when paying the subsidies? Are these matters going to be paid normally, or are we waiting for the Ministry of Finance to decide how these agricultural benefits will be taxed?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u192	As far as taxation is concerned, the cases are settled. The fact is that when the Income Act was amended, it was laid down that those subsidies for which the decisions were issued in 2004, irrespective of the time of payment, did not fall under the payment of the income or did not fall under the income base. However, all other decisions, which will also be issued in 2004, will be taxed in 2005. However, this cannot be the reason why decisions are not issued.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u193	Thank you very much. It is up to Mr Slavko Gaber to ask the Minister for Higher Education, Science and Technology.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u194	Thank you very much. Mr Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Secretary-General! This National Assembly adopted the National Higher Education Programme in 2002. We wrote in it that Slovenia was mature for us to go to the founding of the third Slovenian university, the University of Primorska. We are all aware that we have also been able to accomplish this task in this period. The University of Primorsk has come to life and I think it is developing in the direction of reaching the strength of the existing two, truly established universities. There was a very lively debate in Slovenia about whether we might not have opened the university in Celje, the University of New Town, the University of Kranj and Murski Sobota. Some time later, a discussion came on the day about the possible opening of the second university in Primorska, the University of Novi Gorica. I saw for myself that at the idea of the New York polytechnicians, you supported their idea of transforming into a university. I ask you because we are not informed about this in the National Assembly: Is this an extract from the national programme that I know the Ministry must prepare and send it to the National Assembly this year? So I ask you: Have you already decided within the house for the expansion of universities in Slovenia? In what way do you intend, when you see for yourself that the number of students and students, because the population is falling, is likely to stagnate, but will not increase further in absolute numbers, regulate the relationship between the quality of these institutions and the quantity of these institutions? How will you finance such an expansion? How much will we increase this year's share of the gross social product for universities and how much in the coming years, especially if we open new ones? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u196	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Dr. Gaber! Your question is, of course, current, but because we know that this year, when we have to prepare a national higher education programme, we know that the problem of universities in every society is very serious and that it needs to be addressed in time and in need and in financial capacity. The fact is - if I answer first to the first part, that is, as far as Nova Gorica is concerned - that the creation of the official University of Nova Gorica is more about the quality of these programmes than the appointment itself. In fact, we need to separate, one is the quality of the programmes and the need, the other is the ability or what the state can pay. As far as the number of universities is concerned, we certainly do not set any limits if we do not look at paying. However, when we look at payment, in this mandate the government takes the view that in this part we must first ensure a quality transition to Bologna programmes that are not free, because the Bologna programmes primarily require a reduction in the number of professors per student, require an increase in the quality of the study, in particular on technical subjects, an increase in the number of laboratories per student and an increase in the number of these students - from classrooms to laboratories, including an increase in additional mentors, trainers, demonstrators and all that. To a large extent, state resources will be directed towards changes in Bologna programmes, not to finance, say, the fourth, fifth and so forth, the State University. On the other hand, we are not absolutely opposed to establishing private institutions that will not, of course, be financed from state money. It is clear, however, that the Higher Education Council is also obliged by law to review, in each State or private university, prior to accreditation, whether the programme is appropriate, the right or test programmes are consistent with the substantive, spatial criteria and, most importantly, for us, the quality of the lecturers. Of course, Slovenia has not yet exhausted all its potentials here. It is necessary to be aware that, of course, we have many Slovenian experts in industry, at institutes and instead, who are willing to work at universities. By attracting these, of course, Bologna processes could also be significantly improved. As regards the additional issue of funding this year, I can say that this year it is earmarked for a budget of 47 and a half billion if we are looking at it in full, which is 6.39% more than it was in the previous year. This, in line with the fact that the inflation we were counting on was two and a half percent, means that we actually actually increased the funds a little bit more than it was in line with the regulation. How do we keep doing this, and what are our plans? If we now look at what we want, it is, of course, in the coming years, that we achieve in five, six years that they are on all programmes, and let's say that goal 13, it is said that things are going to be a little bit too far, to achieve these bologna orientations on all programmes, and when we commit ourselves once, that the first and second degree will not burden students, but of course it will burden the budget, someone has to pay anyway, clearly, we are counting that in this amount, we call it another year together, that is about 11 billion, which would bring about 6 billion per year in real terms. This is an approximate assessment that we need in particular to carry out the Bologna process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u197	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Ambassador, you'd like an additional explanation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u198	Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. Then did I understand you correctly? When I read about this, I had a different feeling that you did not intend to propose to the National Assembly to establish the Fourth Slovenian University, as a state university in Nova Gorica? If I accidentally misunderstood you, then I would like to suggest that you consider also establishing a university with a higher and higher education centre in Celje as a state university. And I would expect you to propose in this case to set up more universities and let the National Assembly decide how it will truly establish them.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u199	Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u200	Thank you very much. I must say, of course, the final decision on this has not yet fallen. We still need to discuss this accordingly. It is also necessary to discuss resources in particular. This is about the students. We know the number of students is dropping. We're in the part where the missing population shows up for a while. My personal opinion is that we do not need an increased number of state universities at any given time, but we need to ensure quality of what we have. How this will develop within these three universities, for once, is a matter of the future question of the distribution of colleges. As far as Nova Gorica is concerned. I've been there for a visit, and I have to say, they're extremely quality, they're working on very appropriate programs. If they prepare things and see that this direction is good and if there is any other way of accrediting them, we will bring funding. This is our obligation to set out in this national higher education programme for the coming years the resources the country can afford for individual programmes. We can't do this. This should be known that the State has a certain promise.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Let's get out of high school a little lower. Mr Rudolf Moge will ask the Minister for Education and Sport.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u202	Dear Minister Dr. Beast! The Association of Directors, the Professional Council for General Education, the Basic School Commission, the Teachers' and Education Union and the School Society at the level of man, and many experts or experts warn you, Mr Minister, that recklessly and contrary to professionally, you stop the examination of knowledge at the end of the first three years. On what basis do you insist on your salvation? Which of the experts or institutions is behind such a solution? This check is important for both students, parents and teachers. So far, the implementation and monitoring of these experiments show that more than 80% of students or their parents are being tested, that they are satisfied with this method of assessing knowledge and that the implementation of tests does not interfere with learning. Taking into account that it is with the results of the national tests that teachers and parents first get a more detailed and comparable view of the knowledge of children, who until then are described as being generally evaluated by the same teacher or teacher for three years, and that in one way or another they evaluate the knowledge of the same old learners in as many European countries and do not deal with the so-called stress of the tests, but with the development of the quality of the lessons, then the reasons, I think, for their termination is not. Your argument that there is not enough time for implementation could be resolved immediately with a bill that would extend the validity of when it begins to enter into force, while with respect to money, Mr Minister, we know both, the following. First, some money, some music. Second, every school costs something, including primary school.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u204	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much for the question, Member. High school costs a lot, too. This debate, or this answer, can be understood as an introduction to a longer, broader debate tomorrow on the same subject. The abolition of external knowledge testing refers only to the first triad after practically the first part of primary education in children aged eight years. Most European countries, and this large majority of European countries, do not practice this external knowledge check: in the UK, say Scotland and England, pardon, Wales and England, Scotland, Malta and France. And by predicting that England would end the external verification of knowledge after the first triad. So very few countries are still trying to verify in this way, so externally to check the knowledge of children, especially at this age. I believe that the experts are important that I keep them, that we will give them a realistic form, that we will talk more about it tomorrow, but that all the bad qualities of external forms of knowledge verification have far worse consequences and results on this youngest generation. We all know that experts, if they are to give some useful feedback - after the first triad, do not give it, especially because there are no significant differences between them. More or less, children so far, at least so say the results, carried out approximately the same all the tests, practically the results are very similar and if we want to get some information from this knowledge check, there should be some significant difference in the results, and these are not. Parents also do not receive these assessments and data immediately, so that there are no real benefits. In addition, there are a number of other weaknesses that we will talk a little more about tomorrow as a result of the time crisis. Some countries - even the best ones, if we measure quality by the results of TIMSS - of course, we cannot only measure the quality of school systems after this, they do not have these forms of knowledge verification at an early stage. Finland has no, say, as a school miracle, they perform national tests of knowledge on a sample, not at national level, which is a significant difference. If the national test can give an assessment, information on the knowledge of the student, the work of the teacher in relation to the department, it shall assess schools, regions, municipalities and the whole population. In a sample test of knowledge, we only get an evaluation from the latter, nothing more. In short, these are kind of fundamental reasons, not just money, as you say, not just a lack of staff, which also exists - after the current law we should practically include the entire population next year in carrying out this - and not just spatial logistics problems. So, there are other substantive reasons that have advised us to carry out national knowledge tests in this first generation after the first triad. I think that just the fact that this is not a common practice in the world is enough reason to summarize this solution. Indeed, school systems are becoming increasingly standardised, comparable to each other and there is no need to introduce something special to me, a completely new or different model as they know it in Europe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u205	Thank you, Dr. Beast. Mr. Mogue, supplemental.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u206	Thank you very much. Minister, in this education you have forgotten, for example, the Netherlands; let us leave this aside. You gave me your personal reasons for insisting, but you did not answer my question: Which of the experts or institutions is behind this solution? You, as a minister, and, excuse me, an unknown man in the pedagogical processes, have probably brought these things in on your own vision. But I think you broke into the school law as a bulldozer. This is evident from the way in which in this same law, which the public opposes, you have also solved the problem of knowledge verification at the conclusion. There every student had the right to choose an object that he loved, which would likely have some support in continuing his studies or in life. However, you have rounded the choice of the third object to the extent that you will determine it through an institution which is also unclear which institution this institution is and what will eventually happen, whether it will be acceptable to pass or not to pass such admission exams. In view of this, Mr Minister, I ask: Will you, despite the majority opposition of the professional public and the fact that no one in the public has supported these solutions, insist on the proposal for a new law, or will you find at least a way by which, before the law in the procedure, it will take into account the minimum requirement of us Members when we adopt it - that this law will also be brought to life and that it will also be professional? And in the end, Mr Minister, I sincerely thank you for not answering the question I have asked you so far.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u207	Thank you. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u208	Thank you very much. I don't know what question you're talking about. We could have read it now, and I could have answered it now. Look, as far as the other questions about the exteriors are concerned, we'll talk about this tomorrow, because it's not about the last triad. It's not true what you're saying, who's opposed it all. They listed at least two associations between those who were supposed to object, but that is not the case. Even the professional public is not opposed by the majority. I don't know, you have some special analysis of why you can say that. If two, three ladies come from the liberal democracy expert council, which opposes this, this does not mean that the professional public is mostly opposed to this model. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] I was talking about two, three ladies. [[...]] Honey, yeah, if this is an insult to you, then that's your problem. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u209	Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u210	In short, we'll talk more about this tomorrow, about professional grounds. I didn't think of this model on my own. It was created by the Ministry. It was done or prepared with me by people who are paid for it, who are paid by taxpayers and will continue to do things that we think are absolutely necessary. The amendment of the law on external verification of knowledge was urgently necessary because such a law as it is now in law is not feasible. It's not real. And you can ask a fellow who sits a meter behind you whether that's true or not. We were therefore forced to go into this change of character and the role of national knowledge tests. However, experts have also changed their views, including those who have come to the press recently. The last time my expert was challenged to talk about certain names, some of them had to cancel their active role in all of this in public. I think tomorrow will be plenty of time for us to say a word on this subject. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u211	Thank you very much. We have four more questions, two in the first round and then two in the second. So little for motivation that we can take those few more minutes. And I invite Mr Ljub Germić to ask the Minister for Higher Education, Science and Technology. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u212	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President! Representatives of the government, distinguished Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The experience so far in the functioning of this government is certainly the creation and development of octopuses in the so-called political coherence that means in the practice of replacing in the structures of the state administration, for which it was necessary to amend the law on public servants in this house. We are experiencing exchanges in supervisory councils, assemblies and administrations in the field of economics, and with the same ambition, the law on RTV is also being considered in the National Assembly, if I mention just a few examples. From the media we can monitor, Mr Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology, that the area you are caring for within this government is no exception. Thus, we were able to read a while ago in the newspaper that the President of the Slovenian Democratic Party Professional Council, who is also the President of the Council of the Republic of Slovenia for Higher Education and could be followed, with a view to personal benefit, obstructed the initiation of studies by means of Bologna study programmes at two universities of the University of Ljubljana. Next. We can also read that politics and you are personally involved in the process of appointing a rector or rector at the University of Ljubljana. They are also very public about the events at the Jožef Štefan Institute at the time of the meeting of the board of directors, which the public is commenting that it was quite turbulent. It may also be heard that the Secretary of State of your Ministry, with a much higher voice, warned the members of the Management Board that the dissatisfaction with the selection of a director who was supposed to like the politics or government of Janez Janša and apparently the decision in relation to the assembly was not right. Therefore, Mr Minister, I ask you, given that you have clearly defined yourself in the presentation to depoliticise public life in its entirety and, of course, a very important area which you represent in general, I wonder: Do you picture depoliticization of your department in the manner described? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u213	Thank you. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u214	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Thank you very much, honourable Member, for these questions. There are a few of them, but of course they are in some sense, as you said, there are words such as "feel," "hear" and similar things - of course it would be very difficult to answer, but I will go in line on certain insinuations that have been given here. First, an insinuation was given against the President of the Higher Education Council to suggest anything already, but of course I cannot respond to my hunches, but I will explicitly say that the Council for Higher Education adopted 35 Bologna programmes at its December 2004 meeting, from which 22 programmes were launched. However, they have reviewed the programmes because it is necessary to ensure that students are enrolled under the same conditions. And this is particularly important during the transition from one programme to another. In fact, the problem is that if, for example, a student who has entered into an old programme, when a new programme comes into force, let's say he falls down and has the right to repeat, he no longer has the option to work according to the old programme, but he has to follow the new programme, and therefore there is a need for equal rights and equal opportunities for students in these transitions or in all these options. As a result, the programmes have been reviewed and colleges are in line with certain programmes, where not all options have been clearly written, especially such as crossings, alerted to correct this. Thus, out of the 35 programmes that have been adopted, 22 programmes have already been approved and have already been announced, and 13 programmes are still being negotiated, corrected and anticipated, as we have already learned from our information at the Ministry, because in the permanent agreement, what adjustments are needed in the programmes, they are likely to be signed. So there was no problem here. In particular, it should be said that the members of the Council, at their first meeting, have completed the Rules of Procedure on work with paragraph 11, which reads as follows: "If a member of the Commission has participated in an accreditation or habilitation procedure at an existing higher education institution and is in pre-commission proceedings, then he does not have the right to vote." So none of the members who are in any way connected to any university have the right to vote in higher education in the world. In a specific case, the chairman shall decide whether such an expelled member of the Council or of his working body shall also have the right to participate in the debate. Therefore, he also has no part in the debate and must not participate in the discussion of a programme in which he has participated. And that's what's happened. So I can tell you about a specific case. As for me lobbying for any rector, I can still deny it and it's ridiculous. For the first time, I don't even have a chance, even if I wanted to. The other thing is that the university is completely autonomous. There are about 3,000 people who have the right to vote or are delegated by students. But it is absolutely true that Mrs Andreja Kocjančič has made an appointment with me alone. Of course, I accepted it, I had a pleasant conversation with it, and then I also called two other candidates for the Rector that we were on the same footing. I've known all three of them since before. We all know each other. They're very nice people. I think all three of them are capable of running the University of Ljubljana, and I have no problem with that. As far as the third point is concerned: at the Institute Joseph Štefan was the meeting of the board of directors. Here I can also read a report from this session, where they explicitly say that there have been no reports that none of the specially declared candidates have been exposed. As far as this is concerned, the candidates who were there were, the scientific council confirmed another than the board of directors had confirmed. A candidate has been confirmed on the Management Board and this has been proposed by the Management Board to the Ministry. At the Ministry, we examined whether the candidate met the conditions, so whether he had all the conditions required by the invitation to tender. We have found that it meets the conditions and we have already proposed to this gentleman to the government for confirmation. That's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u215	Thank you. Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u216	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary, for your answer. For I greatly appreciate your professional and scientific work, because we come from the same field of expertise and I have had the opportunity to do so. Of course, there is something else to guide, and, of course, the indications that have been formulated as my question in the end follow the publications that I could follow. And, of course, it seems correct to me that you, as Minister today, will give an answer to whether, for example, a statement by the Rector at the Senate of the University of Ljubljana, which was then published in Del on 11.5. According to the Rector, however, he is also expected to intervene in the election of the new rector. Of course, it is my duty as a Member to dispel any doubts about your conduct in defending the idea of the autonomy of the university space. And I wish that the area you are covering, this is the area of higher education, science and technology, has a neutral approach in choosing candidates for the most important functions. And if, in practice, the words you have spoken here today are also confirmed, the questions I have addressed to you today will be significantly less. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u217	Thank you very much. I thank the Ambassador very much. I think it's the concern of all of us that the university is autonomous. This is, I think, one of the main goods that we have acquired through civilization; universities have always been autonomous, and I believe they are here. I must say that I have not read Mr Mencinger's statements, I believe it was such, but perhaps in another context. I have to say, I haven't tried to influence the choice of rector in any way with him or anyone else, because I don't think I could. The other thing, the two days, and maybe -- I don't know exactly -- it was something else. It was a negotiation in registered cities, but here the hands were short and they just said it had to be done quite quickly. It's just a thing of the calendar. But as for the autonomy of the university, of course, I think we stand in the same position, absolutely.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u218	Thank you very much. Since the money is the world's ruler, we are back in finance and Mr Janc I invite him to ask the Minister of Finance a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u219	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues! In the end, we're a little tired, but finance is finance. With regard to the tax burden on small vineyards, I will briefly try to explain. Slovenia is a land of wines, zodiacs, vineyards and so on. It is a land of specialities designed by small farmers and small vineyards, and the way wine is produced is carried out by working on very difficult surfaces. In the Income Wine Act, the former government excluded it from basic agricultural production and took it as a production product for which every winegrower producing more than 230 litres of wine on a full-year household member must have a registered complementary activity on the farm. During the period of implementation of the common agricultural policy, a census of vineyards was made in the register, which is why I can argue that the purpose of vineyards is not speculation. In the Income Act adopted by the previous government, only grapes are produced by a vineyard or vine grower, and in order to fertilize its own produce over 230 litres per person in the household must have registered activity if it is to sell this wine. Grape growers have taken steps to enforce their status under the law, but they have encountered impossible obstacles, such as the fact that Durs is almost not cooperating with wine growers or professional organisations, and even worse, they do not have concrete answers. I ask: Does anyone think that who is prepared instead of more than 10,000 vineyards in Slovenia, their families having under 20 acres of vineyards, to maintain this cultural, landscape road, water infrastructure, to pay voluntary contributions to regulate and asphalt roads? And who will buy out all the grapes that little vine growers will want to sell, that they will not have to report the activity, and that if they are unable to turn it into wine, they may sell it as before? Is it fair that legal persons who own agricultural land do not pay cadastral income, that they do not have to worry at all that the land is processed and that farmers are taxed on cadastral income and will pay income from the sold crop? Most of the small winegrowers who produce wine from their own grapes and who paid a tax on the vineyard after the cadastral income are also guilty of selling wine in a tax offence because they market wine without activity. However, there are no clear instructions and guidelines for registration from tax authorities. The situation is very similar to that of culturers, journalists, students, but with the essential difference that vineyarders do not master media combat in the way that others do. The evaluation of wine-growing services is that the existing way, if enforced by the government, will destroy small vineyards that give soul to vineyards and strongly support the development of excursions and tourism. Dear Minister of Finance, I believe that you will be preparing a change to this part of the law, which will be more acceptable, more life-giving for vineyards, especially in the work of administration and unreasonablely high tax revenues from wine in the context of complementary activities - since it is taken into account for the base of income doses of as much as 75% of the product sold. Incomprehensible! Mr. Secretary, I believe you understand this and I expect your clear answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u220	Thank you. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u221	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Your Honor! First of all, I thank you for mentioning that this law, now in force, on income, was proposed by the previous Government and that this State Assembly adopted it in its previous composition. The issue you have just discussed is well known, not least from certain debates we have had in this previous Assembly. So this is no news. However, the fact is that the government has decided and, on my own initiative, has already drawn up and appointed an expert committee, chaired and led by Dr Kranjc, which is working very successfully and rapidly in all these areas. It is a law on income, a law on the taxation of legal persons and a law on the tax procedure. All these groups are working, we have referred to everyone certain questions that we have received in our ministry during this period, and I can assure you that this issue is also the subject of debate and will also be subject to amendments to this law, the Income Act. Above all, it is a simplification of this and a more equitable approach to the whole. The fact and personally I am convinced that we must also include in these professional discussions the role played by Slovenian farmers as regards the maintenance of nature, our rural area. And not least, as far as the vineyards are concerned, they offer us very healthy, beautiful and pleasant fluids that we enjoy - I hope to the extent possible - all. I cannot tell you what the final solution will be, but I assure you that this matter is the subject of debate. Perhaps just a small correction in your presentation: you talked about the problems with registration and the lack of a proper response by the tax administration itself. Now, I can tell you that by issuing detailed explanations, not only the Ministry of Finance and Tax Services themselves, these things now, I am not saying right now, but they have been eliminated in recent weeks. So we'll take a different approach. I can also tell you that I have just received a report from the Minister of Finance's professional services today on how the work is progressing as regards the change in cadastral income. I think that this is one of the key, fundamental questions for a long-term solution to the more appropriate level of the whole issue of taxation of Slovenian agriculture, but it has its specificities, which are very difficult to compare with other sectors across other countries, and we will also, I am sure, find the right answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u222	Thank you. Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u223	I am pleased with the Minister's response. I hope that these words of yours will come into play to small Slovenian vineyards, and that finally what we do not really understand will be applied by this new income law. We make these corrections as soon as possible to continue to drink good Slovenian or Christmas Slovenian wine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u224	Thank you very much. I see that the level of satisfaction with the answers is too time-consuming. This concludes the first round of questions. We have two more questions in the so-called second round. And I invite Mr Milan Petk to ask the Minister for Higher Education, Science and Technology.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u225	Dear Mr. Secretary! You're with us as Minister first, and apparently you'll be the last to leave with Comrade Bajuk. We have listened patiently to you so far. But I am asking you a question concerning one part of your activities, this is the coordination and guardianship of the development of the information society, also, of course, on this issue of publicly accessible points to the Internet. The former Ministry of Information Society, which, according to our opinion, has been vehemently and unwarrantedly abolished by the government and has dispersed the work area into three government departments, has been very successful in developing a network of publicly accessible Internet sites. Thus, eight multimedia centres, eleven e-books, 22 e-schools and five online cafes were established in the poor three years in cooperation with the Ministry of Culture and the former Ministry of Education, Science and Sport. Publicly accessible points are one of the important mechanisms for overcoming digital divides, i.e. gaps between those who have knowledge and the possibility of using modern information and communication technologies and those who do not. Public access points, however, bring these technologies closer in a free and publicly accessible way to a large number of people. Mr Minister, I ask you: What has the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology done in these five months to contribute to the further development of a network of public access points, to the Internet for all citizens and residents of Slovenia, including for the socially weaker and older people who are particularly disadvantaged in the use of new technologies? So far, your ministry, according to our records, has not published a single call for funding these tasks, and the financial year has already passed to the second half. In the LDS, we ask ourselves whether in a government that has made a declarative commitment to development and in its pre-election campaigns has also stressed the importance of the knowledge of the information society, do you intend to take any measures to improve digital literacy in Slovenia - if so, I ask for answers: For which and when in particular? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u226	Thank you. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u227	Thank you very much. Dear Mr Friday, honourable President, honourable Members. Somehow your question is in two sets and I will try to answer each one individually. The fact is that these eight multimedia centres, 11 libraries and 20 schools and five online cafes have been built, and now there are 27 of these e-schools. But it is a fact that you may have overlooked that last week our ministry, the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology, together with the Ministry of Culture, launched an invitation to set up additional multimedia centres. Thus, this call is under way and after these experiences we have experienced so far, we expect two new multimedia centres and 10 to 11 e-bookshops to be created this year. So, that's the money, that's what's gonna happen this year. The additional Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology and explicitly the Directorate of the Information Society cooperates with Telekom Slovenije, Posta, with the municipalities for three activities. One is the establishment of additional public access points in public places and then the skills of these existing points. And for the third time, I will not say Software, but the necessary content, as it is now called, for these points, so that people can work on these points, say, the EU administration and similar things. This is said to be passed on to these points by those programs with which people who do not have access at home can then do so. That's the first part of the answer. The second part of the answer, however, is what are the measures in the field of digital literacy or to increase digital literacy in Slovenia. Here we also have a joint programme with the Ministry of Education and Sport and the Ministry of Labour, Home and Family. This work is now in the final stage, with three points. Point 1 is called - or, say, an activity would call it - a computer in every home. This programme will be put together with the Chamber of Economics and external partners will now be presented in Eureka, which will be held from 24 May to 28 May. For this opportunity we will try to add this as our supplement and this is to increase the penetration of computer equipment, the Internet in households and thus increase the use of e-services. The second is that the Phare project will provide €5.6 million from the EU Phare, which will then be from our Ministry of Labour, Home and Family, and €1.3 million from the Ministry of Labour and Home to digitally describe the unemployed. So this programme is now recruited together and is in the review phase, and then, hopefully, the invitation to tender will be made within six months. The third point is the lifelong learning project, whose institutions are together again, because our ministry is the coordinator of this and we work together with different ministries, we do not work alone. This, however, is with the Ministry of Education and Sport, but we are working in this sense, as we call horizontal monitoring of the information society's priorities. But it's about setting up e-learning platforms. This is the purchase of equipment and the training of people who will prepare e-learning. We know that e-learning and e-learning technology itself and e-electronic learning programmes that run from the beginning to the end, i.e. with all the management and monitoring of professors, chat rooms and the like, quite a difficult matter and, of course, the staff needs to be trained to do so. That's the third part. That is how much we are preparing at our Directorate for the Information Society in this regard.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u228	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u229	Minister, thank you for your answer. So, it was a matter of purpose to present these activities to us, and as far as this is concerned, we are pleased and will also monitor the realization. I would like to remind you that the Ministry of Information Society, as before, has been accompanied by so-called indicators of the development of the information society, which have been continuously improving in Slovenia in recent years. Thus, for example, the SIBIS study - I believe you know it, and the EU project - has shown that the level of digital literacy in Slovenia is quite high, since in 2003 Slovenia was only slightly below the average of the European Union, even before France, Italy, Greece, Spain and some or all of the new EU members. Otherwise, the European Commission's February 2005 e-inclusion survey report, the local dimension of the information society, has shown and identified and recommended to all EU Member States that they continue to develop a network of publicly accessible points. So, we asked you: Is the Ministry following these guidelines, these findings? That was the purpose of our question.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u230	Thank you very much. Is there another comment, Mr. Secretary?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u231	Thank you very much. I'd just like to thank you. I think it's important that we monitor each other's alerts, and I'm grateful for that. We're monitoring it. But the fact is that only indicators that are, in a way, are indicators, but it is necessary to monitor significantly more than how much computer is hacking or penetrating, as is said to be modern, into our society, of course, what is being done with this, that is, the content, and here our work needs to be further deepened. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u232	You see, he's holding my hypothesis -- there's more understanding and agreement. The last one is Mr. Ambassador Mag. Milan Cwickl, who will ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs a long-distance question.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u233	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and ladies Members and Members of Parliament. This is the second time that Mr Rupl is not on the questions sent, so of course I will ask the oral question of the Member of Parliament with the desire to answer it at the next meeting. The question relates to what Slovenia will do in particular by activating the instrument itself in the declaration of guidelines for the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia, namely the so-called European Union's Help Centre, which is intended primarily for the countries of South-Eastern Europe, countries which continue their path towards entry into the European Union in 2005 under the Luxembourg and British Presidency. It is known that the European Commission has recently recommended the launch of negotiations with Serbia and Montenegro on a Stabilisation Association Agreement, and Macedonia has also been able to answer the Commission's question by means of a "twinning" programme implemented by the Slovenian government, a government service for European affairs, on the basis of which the Council of the European Union will examine the application for membership of Macedonia in the European Union. Bosnia and Herzegovina is moving from the Dayton period to the Brussels period. With Croatia, the date of the start of the negotiations has been postponed and Albania, as is known, is preparing for elections under the supervision of the OSCE. Bulgaria and Romania signed an accession treaty at the end of last month and are expected to formally join the European Union on 1 January. So it is clear that this process is continuing. The wish of a number of European countries was that Slovenia would be a "reson officer" in relation to South-East Europe, or if you want to listen carefully to the doors of the European Union and understand the knocks of individual countries and, of course, their demands. That is why, last year, we also committed ourselves to an international conference to set up a centre to help bring the European Union closer. The new Government has also committed itself, in its declaration of guidelines for the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia, to use, in particular in cooperation at bilateral level with direct political contacts, through effective assistance in resolving outstanding issues and by actively offering specific assistance to the countries of this region, a centre to help bring the European Union closer. My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is: What will Slovenia do specifically to activate the European Union's Help Centre as an instrument for our support for the enlargement of the European Union to Southeast Europe? I want an answer to the next meeting with the desire that the Minister succeeds, however, for some day to stop in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u234	Thank you very much. Mr Minister Zupan, of course, I am particularly grateful that he has endured with us for so long. I thank the other ministers and ministers with the help of a magnetogram. I hereby end this agenda item, which we will continue on Wednesday 18 May at 2 p.m., when the three questions of the opposition members and the questions of the ruling coalition are answered by Prime Minister Janez Janša. On the proposal of Mr Mag. It has been said that the National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance to his question of the Member State and will decide in the framework of tomorrow's vote. I hereby adjourn the 6th session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. Have a nice night. Excuse me?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u235	I'm sorry, but you have forgotten the request of Mr Pečet.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-05-16-SDZ4-Redna-06.ana.u236	I'm sorry, but he's been warned. So, it's two suggestions, a proposal of mags. Squeaks and Mr. Pechet. Have a nice evening. Take advantage of everything in a moment and get a good night's sleep and get some rest and a good night's sleep.
