ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members! Ladies and gentlemen! We begin the continuation of the 8th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and that the next Members and Members of Parliament cannot attend today's meeting. Comrade Josip Bajc, Bogdan Barovic, Matjaž Han from 3 p.m. on, Victory Jelinčič Tribal from 4 p.m. on, Sašo Peče from 4 p.m. on, Happy Friend from 4 p.m. on, Doctor Mitja Slavinec, Janko Weber, Boštjan Zagorac from 4 p.m. on and Barbara Žgajner Tavš from 4 p.m. on. We're moving to 18. PERIOD OF THE DAY - SPECIAL REPORT ON THE PROBLEM OF THE "EXCEPTED" IN THE ANNUAL REPORTS OF THE PROTECTOR. I would like to inform you, however, that the total time of discussion is 2 hours and 58 minutes. The Special Report presented the Ombudsman to the Assembly for consideration and thus I give him my word. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u2	Honorable National Assembly! Thank you for this opportunity to discuss this place one year after the report on deleted human rights reports has been submitted. Given that there has been a lot of talk on this subject in the last ten years, and in the last three years and four years in particular, I will be very brief, because I think there is something special about this report and I cannot add to it all. The only thing I hope is that it's time to settle this matter properly once and for all. First of all, I would like to remind you of what we all know, after the independence of Slovenia, has made an extremely nice move, which I have also heard about many times before I took up this function, throughout Europe. This is an offer for citizenship for all people living in Slovenia from other parts of Yugoslavia. That's when we got, as we ourselves know, 170 and more new citizens. Slovenia did not fail to do so. We didn't live any worse, I think even better. And Slovenia has increased its reputation in the world. Unfortunately, this remarkable move and outstanding reputation destroyed another senseless or unnecessary move that has been made to erase, with a population that is one-tenth of the population that we have accepted among our citizens. And that's why I don't see and think it's a shame that in a smaller, smaller problem, much bigger problems are being made, and that this society can't, in addition to protecting and respecting the rule of law, show another part of humanity and humanity to people who are in trouble. The purpose of this report was not only to encourage but to conclude the debate in an appropriate manner on deleted persons, showing what the Ombudsman's institution, the Ombudsman's institution and all employees in the last ten, nine years have been writing about deleted, as this problem has been seen by the Ombudsman. What specific conclusions, except for the introduction in the conclusion, which somehow link all the writings of the past nine years, have not been made because it is no longer necessary to say. Perhaps I would start by reading a passage from the first report for 1995 by the Ombudsman, in our opinion dealing with so-called starting persons under the law on foreigners is not appropriate because their situation is not regulated at all. Without embarking on a broader debate, it is essential to conclude that the text of Article 13 does not fully apply to these cases. They did not come to Slovenia by means of a travel document, and the club came or was in it legally, some even since birth. They were full-fledged citizens, with permanent residence in Slovenia, and are in a worse position, as I say, "foreigners" after the third paragraph of Article 82. There is also no procedure for the transition to the status of a foreigner, which would probably be appropriate if it were introduced under an official duty. This would significantly avoid the unregulated situation and the unanimity and sometimes inappropriate procedure of the administrative authorities. This was written in 1995 in a report by the Ombudsman, which was also addressed by the National Assembly, which means that at least the Ombudsman and those who read it wanted to hear it, they knew. The purpose of the material, as I have already said, is simply to say what the Ombudsman was doing in ten years. We are not proposing any special solutions, such as those proposed in the Constitutional Court. Honorable National Assembly! I don't think it's necessary to say more than that. I hope and believe that this highest legislative body will follow the requirements of the rule of law and confirm the conclusion that the status of deleted persons should be settled immediately or as soon as possible, in accordance with the decisions of the Constitutional Court. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u3	Thank you. The Special Report addressed the Commission on Petitions and Human Rights and the same opportunities as the mother labour force and prepared a proposal for a report from the National Assembly. I'm asking the president of the commission, mag. Majdo Pót to present the report of the Commission.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u4	Dear Matjaž Hanžek with fellow Members, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! At its 2nd meeting on 2 February this year, the Commission considered a special report on the issues deleted in the Ombudsman's annual reports, which the Ombudsman forwarded to the National Assembly for a briefing on 5 July last year. Representatives of the Ombudsman, the representative of the Ministry of the Interior, the representative of the Society of the Deleted People of Slovenia and the representative of the Peace Institute participated in the meeting of the Commission. In his supplementary explanation, the Ombudsman said that the special report did not represent a comprehensive picture of the problem being deleted, but was only about showing how he understood this issue of the Ombudsman and what proposals he had forwarded to politics since 1995. The solutions proposed were similar to those adopted later by the Constitutional Court. He reiterated that the Constitutional Court's decision should find illegality and illegality as soon as possible and in a way that would sustain not only the possible re-assessment of the Constitutional Court but also the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights. With regard to the compensations, he said that the individual claims were likely to be obsolete and that it was considered on the part of the State whether it would be appropriate for all those affected to offer certain compensation. The representative of the Ministry of the Interior explained how many supplementary decisions establishing permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia have been issued since February 1992 as well as how many are still in rescue. He added information on compensation claims. The representative of the society of the deleted inhabitants of Slovenia outlined the history of solving this problem and called on all competent persons to respect the decision of the Constitutional Court and to correct the injustice within the meaning of this decision to all without exception. He also pointed out that only constitutional matter can be regulated by constitutional law. In the event that the constitutional law regulates the issues of deleted, which according to its content is legal matter, such law would also be subject to the judgement of the Constitutional Court. In the debate, a proposal was made for a recommendation which the SD and the LDS advocated that the Government and the competent ministries, in view of the Ombudsman's findings that the situation of deleted persons has not yet been fully settled, should do everything necessary to regulate this situation in accordance with the Constitutional Court decision of 3 April 2003. Such a proposal did not receive support, nor did the proposal of the SDS and NSIs to ensure that the government and the competent ministries do everything necessary to address the problem systematically deleted and to prepare a constitutional law and, where necessary, other acts. The Commission thus concluded a discussion on the report but did not adopt any recommendations. The President of the National Assembly addressed a letter to the President of the Commission informing her that the Ombudsman’s special report had not been included in the meeting of the National Assembly, since he was not prepared by the home working body for consideration at the meeting, since no proposal for a recommendation or other act had been submitted to allow for consideration at the meeting of the assembly. The President of the Commission asked the Committee on the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly for an opinion and adopted an explanation which led to the conclusion at the meeting of the home working body when the working body adopts a proposal for a decision which will be proposed to the national assembly for consideration and decision. Therefore, at its 5th meeting, on 11 May, the Commission continued its consideration of the Special Report of the Ombudsman on the Issues Deleted in the Ombudsman's Annual Reports and adopted the following conclusion: "The Commission on Petitions and on Human Rights and Equal Opportunities has considered the Special Report of the Ombudsman on the Issues Deleted in the Ombudsman's Annual Reports and is proposing to the National Assembly to consider and adopt it." Recommendation: "The government and the competent ministries should, in view of the Ombudsman's findings that the situation of deleted persons has not yet been fully settled, do whatever is necessary to ensure that the situation is regulated in the System Act on deleted persons." Subsequently, on 8 July, an opinion was forwarded to the Council of State, which came after the already adopted decision and recommendation, and the Commission has therefore not been able to identify it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u5	Thank you. I give the floor to the representative of the Government to present the opinion. Mr. Minister Dragutin Mate, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Members and Members! From the report you just heard, you could understand that the government or government representatives we have discussed on the committee in more detail about individual points, so that at this point we would not stop at individual claims which are in the Ombudsman's report and which we have already explained in some way at the session itself. I would like to stop on the issue of how the decisions were issued last year and what the government intends to do and in what time frame or solution to this issue. This issue has been solved for many years with such and different complications. A large number of you were able to monitor how this was done. By a decision of the Constitutional Court, it was imposed on the Ministry and, of course, with all additional explanations that the Ministry must start issuing decisions. The Ministry of the Interior joined the decision-making process last February. The decisions began to be issued in a way that entered into contracts with workers who had done this extra work outside their working hours for the additional payment, for which the Ministry had spent just over 36 million tolars. Work was done, professional work, 18 workers. The review or audit was carried out by 4 workers and 5 workers entered matters into records. In July, the Ministry stopped issuing decisions. One reason for this was the lack of funding for this work. And then the decisions, 4093 decisions were circulated to the persons for whom they had resolved the dossier and drawn up the decisions. With the month of September, they also stopped sending decisions that had already been written. So somehow the resolution of this issue took place after and in accordance with the decisions of the Constitutional Court and ended in July and September of last year. The government has included in its legislative plan, its work this year, or its adoption, the drafting of a constitutional law or law that would be acceptable and that would solve this whole area. In the Ministry of the Interior, a group of people are working hard to prepare this law, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] the involvement of external experts who will further review the draft law. [[....]] And then we assume that, through government procedures, by the end of the 11th month or early December, this law would also have come to your desks, to Parliament, where we could then somehow resolve this issue in a comprehensive way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u7	Mr. Secretary, thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Boštjan Zagorac has the floor to present the opinion of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u8	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The use of taxpayers' money for paper and copies and the waste of our time, but not the Ombudsman's report, is before us today. So the shortest thing I could do was mark the creak we got on the table. When a person begins to read a product, he feels that it was written by himself, so - called deleted, self - erased. The report, if we can call it that, is an extremely one-sided description of events involving self-exposure. It's a product that could be called a puzzle. But we're used to such compositions from the guardian in this national council. Last time we considered one of these in February, when we had another report from that same guardian. The Ombudsman points out in his report that the unresolved issue is the problem of the entire society, as it casts a bad light on our country mainly abroad. And I'm asking him, could there be a violation of public order and peace, by the so-called erased, when implemented, we can't say a hunger strike, but rather a voluntary post, because when they get hungry, they break it, they eat and come back, they don't throw bad lights at our country? But there's not a word in the report. It is clear to us Members of the Ombudsman that we are discussing this subject in mind and without arguments and that the solution to this problem is very simple. According to him, it is probably so simple that citizenship should be granted to all who are considered to be so-called deleted, in the manner in which we are also reminded of the last case that we have been able to track in the media, this is the case of the so-called Mr. Floricanin, who happened to him the most beautiful moment in his life when they gave him Slovenian citizenship. I believe so. For someone who has learned to use weapons or weapons in another country, there is, of course, some kind of political asylum that he receives in a European country. I am afraid that, at least according to the Ombudsman's belief, some modern-day terrorists would receive similar asylums in the Republic of Slovenia. And that's how the guardian's report makes us feel. Therefore, in the Slovenian National Party, it is beneath us to discuss such a unilateral product that leads us to flat-rate work and to solve the problem that is not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u9	Thank you. We continue to present our views. The position of the DeSUS Group is to be presented. Master Franz Žnidaršič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Guardian, colleagues and colleagues! It is clear from the Ombudsman’s annual reports that a large group of residents of the Republic of Slovenia committed a misdemeanour at the time of independence by deleting from the Register of Permanent Populations on the basis of the unconstitutional provisions of the then applicable law on foreigners. The latter confirm the two decisions of the Constitutional Court. First from 1999 and second from 2003. Both of them ordered the legislator to abolish non-compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia within six months, which did not happen after the first, nor after the second decision of the Constitutional Court. All the years since 1995 the Ombudsman has also pointed out this problem, cited the solutions needed and reported on the severe hardships of the affected people. Instead of regulating things, it has begun to create a completely baseless atmosphere for harmful foreigners, criminals, aggressors, opponents of self-reliance, which the country, as such, should pay more than 100 billion compensations, while real citizens would almost die of any shortage. Regrettably, repeated lies have been tamed among the inhabitants to the point that this measure has justified the failure to solve this problem to this day. Many who have opposed their disastrous situation do not think and regret that they do not want to think seriously even today. Moreover, instead of respecting the decisions of the Constitutional Court, they have become the subject of re-judgment, criticism and interpretation of a number of complete legal laymen, as well as legal analogues, diverse experts and politicians. The Ombudsman himself was, in effect, a daily target of attacks just because he was doing what we set him up as an institution. It's unlikely, but we've heard and seen. The position of the DeSUS Group is as stated, as follows. The problem has remained unresolved for an absolute long time. We refuse to delay solving this problem. The people who have been wronged must be corrected in accordance with the decision of the Constitutional Court. We must do this before the European Court decides to avoid international disgrace and damage to its own country. Our parliamentary group does not want to go to the personal level of accusations or perceptions, who is more and who is less guilty that the problem is not solved. But we want to choose strength, heart, and pride together to do what is necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u11	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, colleague Rudolf Petan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary, Mr. Guardian with his associates! The title already says that the selection of content from past years is on the subject of so-called deleted, which always appears in Slovenia from the same direction and only for a certain time, with a certain purpose. If the Ombudsman deals with a particular subject with particular attention and lenientness, there is nothing wrong with it. That's good. However, it is slightly less good if only some cases, some groups and others, are given special attention. It is necessary to assure the Ombudsman that this is only a demonstration of how the Ombudsman has understood this issue and what he has been doing in recent years, what he has proposed to the policy on this subject. It also states that it is still artificially creating an atmosphere of insurmountable conflict that takes power, will and readiness for the whole society to face the real challenges ahead. That's right. However, we must ask ourselves who has encouraged this conflict and still encourages it. The Ombudsman's opening statement is commendable, which is also an essential basis for understanding the problem of the so-called deleted, and I quote: "At the time of Slovenia's independence, more than a tenth of the permanent population in its territory were represented by the citizens of other republics of the then SFRJ, who were fully equal in rights and duties with the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Of course, the fundamental and further conquests could not and did not miss them. It ensures to all with permanent residence in Slovenia that they can acquire the citizenship of Slovenia if they want to. A real big step towards the realization of these guarantees was the Law on the Citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia, which in the 40th article allowed members of other former Yugoslav republics who had a registered permanent residence in Slovenia on the day of plebiscite 23.12.1990 and who also live here, to acquire Slovenian citizenship without any further conditions if requested by 25.12.1991. Under Article 13 of the Constitutional Law for the Implementation of the Basic Constitutional Charter, the rights and obligations of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia have been equal until the acquisition of citizenship or until the expiry of the deadlines referred to in Article 81 of the Law on Foreigners. Despite the subsequent division, the tightening of the law on the citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia, the vast majority of the affected have thus settled their status. Those who have not applied for citizenship shall, under Article 40, either be rejected or have become foreigners." So much for a start. An immediate question is raised on this subject, which country of the European Union was so democratically open to foreigners. She's gone, ladies and gentlemen! She's not here! Now they're starting to get involved. Some citizens of other republics did not want to apply for citizenship, because they did not feel Slovenia for their country or if you want to, for their new country. The decision can or should, as is correct, be made by themselves, without coercion, of course, in the light of the consequences of their decision. When the 6-month deadline expired, the status changed. At that time, all who were not automatically citizens of the Republic of Slovenia received written notice to obtain, arrange for the citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia if they so wish. This notice was received several times. I myself, as rapporteur on this site, was in charge of carrying out this project at the time, and I am therefore responsible to say that the vast majority of these people have done so. Some of the blue envelopes returned under the code "no address", says they do not live on the address they were registered to because they left Slovenia. And some envelopes came back by mail - and I say this with all the responsibility - with a picture depicting a colorful folklore colored Balkan expression. So they didn't want citizenship, and they also said what they thought about our country, about our citizenship. However, the Law on the Registration of Accommodation of Citizens and the Register of Residents is quite clear, which, of course, was in force at the time. And that's Article 8. If the competent authority suspects that a citizen is not permanently resident in a settlement or at the address where he has declared his permanent residence, it shall establish a procedure for determining the actual situation. On the basis of a final decision by which the competent authority finds that the citizen does not reside permanently in a settlement or at the address where he has declared his or her permanent residence, it deletes the citizen from the register of permanent residents or writes changes to the address in that register. The final decision shall be considered as a certificate of change in the address of permanent residence. And what's wrong with that? Nothing. The law is clear, only for the Balkans, maybe a little too much. And this is certainly too much for the Balkan way of understanding legislation. Of course not for everyone, just for some. When the sad odyssey of the Yugoslav People's Army in Croatia and BiH ended with 100,000 dead, innocent victims, and at that time we remember the anniversary of the Srebrenica event, some wanted to return to Slovenia. It's important to make it clear that not everyone worked there. That's what you have to say, but it's enough if there was one, too. And now there appear the so-called erased, "great injustice has befallen them". These people still do not want citizenship, but they would sue the country for a great amount of compensation. And that's all it's about. We were able to see this at the end of the previous term when we adopted both laws on so-called deleted and on technical and systemic, and we had a referendum. To confirm this case, allow me an example from a report prepared by the Ombudsman. Of course I won't give you everything because you'd recognize a person too quickly. "The husband has lived in Slovenia continuously since 1964. He left her in October 1991 as an officer of the former JLA. We know who was leaving Slovenia at the time. It has been demonstrated from the documents available that the man obtained an entry-exit visa valid from 13.01.1997 to 13.02.1997 at the Consulate General of the Republic of Slovenia in Trieste." And then I skip. "The stranger was taken to the magistrate for his misdemeanors," because he failed to arrange his citizenship, he was a foreigner. "The proceedings before the Judge for Offences continued by requiring the judge to supplement the police station's proposal to initiate the infringement proceedings... and so on." For the same person, the Ministry of Defence issued an invitation to tender in the form of a depilatory stating that the accused is subject to a specific measure of "refusing entry into the Republic of Slovenia". This person was caught in this war by chance, the savagery of the Yugoslav People's Army in Croatia, so it is clear that he was there and not in Slovenia, so he could not live on a permanent address. So the matter is perfectly clear. And now what bothers the guardian's opinion. The events described provided sufficient basis for the opinion communicated to the Ministry of the Interior on the basis of Article 25 of the Law on the Ombudsman, in which case the conduct of internal affairs bodies was not in accordance with the rules. That's because they asked him to leave Slovenia. And I wonder what's wrong with that? What have our organs done wrong? Nothing. I am disturbed by the fact that he has drawn parallels with Goebbels on such a subject of the Ombudsman in such cases. This was 7.12.2003 in a very viewed show. I can read everything, but I'm not gonna read it. Of course, he didn't apologize for that. And we did not find any signatures required by the guardians of the impatient speech against the impatient speech. And not until today. And why would such people be violated by basic human rights? If human rights have been violated, these people have violated human rights. While together, some of them, not all of us, have made this clear, some of them, together with the Yugoslav People's Army, have been in Croatia and Bosnia, and elsewhere. And now let me not continue to comment on this case, because I think you'd recognize a person too quickly if someone didn't already. There's something like that and something like that. Not all of them, I'm stressing again. And this group would now like to draw up legislation so that they can get compensation to sue the country because they do not want to be citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and they would have money. Even more. Those who have arranged all the necessary and accepted citizenship should now, as taxpayers, pay what they have measured when they have regulated and adopted the citizenship of Slovenia and have taken over it for their country. We can't do that and we can't let that happen. Nor should the problem of so-called deleted persons be solved by a system law, such as the recommendation that these so-called deleted persons be sued by the State of Slovenia, which should pay these people a great, great compensation. I'm not talking about hundreds of billions. This is unacceptable for SDS, so we will not support the Committee's recommendation. This is not the Ombudsman's proposal, it must also be made clear, we will not support the Committee's recommendation because the content of this recommendation is harmful to Slovenia. We will vote against it. This is also because in the SDS we propose that this problem be resolved in a different way, not with the so-called system law, as we already know it. We advocate that every case be dealt with if there has been injustice, especially, but not at all, to all. For one more reason in particular, because in so - called deleted persons it is still unclear how many there are. According to one statement, there are 4,000 of them, 8,000 by one, 17,000 by some, even 28,000 by some. So nobody knows. In doing so, we must make it clear that this has nothing to do with those 180,000 people, about so many of whom came to Slovenia from other republics of the former Yugoslavia and settled their citizenship in Slovenia within a period of time and became citizens of the Republic of Slovenia with all the rights that go to them under this law and, of course, with all the duties. To these people, the warming of so - called eraseds is of no benefit; rather, because many, and unjustifiably so, associate with so - called deleted ones. This is an unacceptable act and a gross injustice is being done to these people. That is why the recommendation for a system law is illogical and unacceptable, and that is why we do not support it in the SDS and we will vote against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u13	Thank you, Comrade Petan. The following is a presentation of the position of the Member Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Mrs. Majda Shirtz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u14	Thank you very much. Dear Guardian, distinguished representative of the government, respectable council! The special report is accurate chronological and literary cities, of course in terms of dramatic dramatic, real-political analysis. It is an accurate analysis of the issue of so-called deleted and at the same time there is a call, something has to be done. Let us consider the conclusion that this study as a lapus of Slovenian democracy brings. I quote: "It is important for the Ombudsman's position to definitively regulate the status of the deleted, which is recognised by the Constitutional Court's decision as permanent residence. This is about people who are livingly connected with Slovenia, as they have also proved by insistence in Slovenia even at a time when they were not officially deleted. It would be unconstitutional, unacceptable and harmful to Slovenia's reputation if relations between them and the majority of the population would be more permanent as a result of regulating their status." So the guardian. These relations have probably escalated, even if they're hearing that, as we've heard today, they're just money hunters and not rights, their rights. The reasons for the deterioration of these relationships were sufficient, but there have certainly been a number of life tragedies that are difficult to revive from these benches. The Ombudsman's report had an interesting attempt at repression. On the parental committee, we discussed it in the first months of the new government. The Commission, supported by most positions, did not want the report to be discussed at the plenary session. This topic has become unconscionable for a new authority overnight. So is corruption. If we spoke of her before the election night and day, even of the deleted, he was silent after the elections. In the case of deleted cases, the possibility of discussion was also hampered by a rather self-explanatory interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. On the Committee on Petitions, Equal Opportunities and Human Rights, the majority voted first against the decision to regulate the matter in a manner that respected the Constitutional Court's decision, something was thrown into law by constitutional law until Mr Rupar, at one of the last sessions of the Commission, suggested that this problem should be addressed by so-called system law. We have supported this in the LDS, and we will continue to do so today, because it means enforcing a decision of the Constitutional Court. In the Liberal Democracy, we also welcome the fact that this report is finally on the agenda, because it would be bad if most people made the impression that only those reports of the guardian they like would be dealt with. In the 2005 government programme, however, we do not follow up on clear proposals or targets that the government should continue to address the issue of deleted so-called deleted ones. After today's debate, we therefore expect the government to respond at all more clearly than it has done today, of course, within the time available, what it will do, when and how on this issue. It is up to the government to take all the steps and responsibility for a problem that has recently been so deeply disturbed and disturbed. The paths are given, the floors are ready, there shouldn't be an obstacle. We have a decision by the Constitutional Court, which could have already been realized, we have almost completed the system law that is valid, we have deleted who are waiting, we have an opposition that will continue to support the legal and constitutional solution. We have an opposition that, after presenting the position of the Group of Members, is still manipulating, but we still have a guardian who doesn't care, we have a European institution that is on guard, we have a colleague of Rupar or a commission that we don't oppose, and we have a legal state that needs to be respected. On behalf of the Ombudsman, the deleted, the Constitution, the rule of law and the LDS, the respected government, we are waiting for you, waiting for all those solutions that after the issue of only 4,000 93 supplementary decisions are still not ready, so we are waiting for solutions for about 14,000 deleted. No constitutional law is required for these, for it is the mother of the ordinary law. In our country, people must not feel that they are one of those types that are legal certainty they deserve, and others do not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u15	We continue to present the views of the groups of Members. The opinion of the Social Democrats, Comrade Miran Potrč, is next. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u16	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! A year after the Ombudsman's special report has been postponed, the National Assembly will again address the issue that has been causing an illegal situation for 18,305 deleted since 26 February 1992. Since there are no proposals on the agenda on how to deal with this issue definitively, the State Assembly will not be able to take decisions at today's meeting of measures. And that is why, after so many years of trying to rescue, it may only be justified that the majority in the National Assembly will at least in principle agree that the government is responsible for constitutionality and legality to propose solutions that, in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision, will finally eliminate injustices against people who have been in our country for decades or in the country without their guilt, cannot remain and on this basis have restored the country's reputation at home and in front of international human rights institutions. This can be done by supporting, without much debate, the proposal for a decision proposed by the Commission for Petitions and for human rights and equal opportunities. In the Social Democrats Group, we are convinced that the content of the Constitutional Court's decision is clear and indisputable. It's just that you have to read these decisions in good faith. It is also clear that the content of solutions is essential to respect the decisions of the Constitutional Court. And if the government proposes a law that will indisputably and fully follow the decision of the Constitutional Court, whose enforcement has been the responsibility of this State Assembly for at least two years, we will support such a law by the Social Democrats. However, if the government tries to bypass the content of the Constitutional Court's decision by actually trying to preserve the injustices by means of constitutional law and not to eliminate the illegality that was committed on 26 February 1992, then we will not cooperate with Members of Parliament and Members of the Social Democrats in such a law. Today's debate will show how much opportunities there are for a decent and correct solution to this issue, how much will it take to overcome the untruths and exaggerations that have been created in public about the conduct of the deleted and what should be done to this common country. The debate will show whether we are ready to make what is a completely simple and undisputed decision. On 26 February 1992, the removal was illegal and a permanent residence must be returned. Of course, from here on out, all other issues can be resolved. The question may also be of what fault an individual may have done something against that country at a certain time if, of course, it is proved by lawful means and by the possibility of defence and all legal means, but not by one of the Members and Members who hate these people and who does not want the problems to be settled. I believe that any other solution would be inappropriate and that it is only in this way that individualisation can be understood. But who understands individualisation by allowing this national assembly or him as an individual to assess who should have a permanent residence after February 26 and who does not, even though only for one day, cannot consciously understand the clear decision of the Constitutional Court, because that is what it says in this decision. In the Social Democrats Group, we are convinced that after almost fifteen years of independence, when Slovenia became a full member of the European Union and NATO, Slovenia has strong relations with all the countries whose citizens have been wiped out and many common interests and wants these relations and interests to be even better in the future. And after expecting the citizens of these countries to become citizens of Europe very soon and the issue of permanent residence will become really irrelevant, after all, it is time to resolve the problem of deleted ones and not needlessly burden our relations in the country and not with neighbouring countries. In doing so, I should like to stress in particular that we are not the Social Democrats so far, and even less so in the future, we would like to stress the guilt of anyone for decisions and actions at the time of the illegal deletion and not for the conduct of individuals in the year following the deletion. It's not our intention to black out a political point. But I think it's high time we treat all these people humanly and stop painting them on the wall as criminals. We believe that Slovenia must be a democratic, legal and social state, that it must respect human rights and that it must not be threatened by the will of anyone. While the already expressed opinions of the parliamentary groups may indicate that misunderstandings and hatred of those who have been erased remain, we still appeal to reason and tolerance in dealing with this issue. We expect that, in the light of Minister Matei's statements today, at least the government will show that it will indeed draw up a law which, in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision, will remove this unconstitutionalness as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u17	Thank you. Colleague Marjetka Uhan will give us the position of the New Slovenia Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u18	Nicely greeted! On the Committee on Petitions, Human Rights and Equal Opportunities at its 1st meeting, we discussed the Ombudsman's special report on the deleted issues. The report dealt specifically with the period from 1995 to the decision of the Constitutional Court in 2003. Individual cases and problems of people who do not have the status of a citizen or a foreigner and the view that the issue is being resolved by the Ombudsman are also addressed. The position of Nova Slovenije was and remains that the issue of deleted should be settled by constitutional law. That's what we're thinking today. It has proved to be the only possible solution, since the technical law to settle this issue was rejected by the citizens at the referendum. In Novi Slovenija we are for the rule of law, for the correction of injustices, and we are aware that some individuals may have had objective difficulties, that they have not regulated their status, that they really did not know whether they were born as children in other republics and that parents did not register them as Slovenian citizens or that they had difficulties in obtaining documentation in their own republics. In 1991, when the country was formed, the Slovenian State offered the possibility for citizens of other republics of the former Yugoslavia to decide whether to become Slovenian citizens or foreigners with permanent residence. It was also an obligation to respect the order of the newly formed Slovenian state. Some 170,000 people took this seriously, others, 18,000 did not seem to matter, except those I already mentioned, who may have had problems with bureaucracy in their republic. Six months was the time to acquire citizenship, eight to arrange a permanent residence. They were even called, at least in Ljubljana, to arrange their status. They were invited by the President of the State, informed via the media and so on. No, there was not too little time, but most people did not feel the need to settle their status, or we could say that most of them did not want it either. They simply did not believe that the Republic of Slovenia would become independent, even less so that we would be members of the European Union. More than 10 years of unregulated status, so many thousands of people in Slovenia, want to resolve the Constitutional Court by its 2003 decision, which according to New Slovenia violates the basic constitutional charter adopted in 1991, which states in its 13th article that citizens of other republics had to have permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia on the day of plebiscite, 23 December 1990, and that they actually lived here. Thus, the Constitutional Court has in fact assumed the role of legislator and Minister Bohinc has already issued rulings on the basis of a Constitutional Court decision to many deleted persons. Much has been said about this, much has been said, attempts to solve the problem. There have been two other failed laws, technical and systemic, during the time of Minister Bohinc, and decisions to stay without legal basis. A few thousand deleted status has been removed. However, technical law or system law would not only resolve the status, but would also provide a legal basis for compensation to individuals by the Slovenian State. A few damages have been filed, a maximum of 360 million tolars. 95% of the participants in the referendum rejected the technical law and thus the resolution of deleted ones. In Nova Slovenija we see a solution to the real problem of individual resolution, without the possibility of large claims for compensation. And that could be resolved by constitutional law. Not the guardian, not the lawyer, Mr Krivic, who represented the Society of the Deleted, but this path, as well as the outcome of the referendum, do not want to hear anything. The amendment of the basic constitutional charter was tabled by the Slovenian Coalition and then withdrawn when Minister Bohinc began to issue decisions and took responsibility for all the consequences arising therefrom. Once again: The fact in Slovenia has been deleted. On the part of New Slovenia, we offer a solution by amending the basic constitutional charter and solving individual cases. Attempts to resolve other laws have already fallen into the water. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u19	Thank you. Following is a presentation of the position of the Association Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Ambassador Jacob the Presbyterian, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u20	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. All in attendance, all in attendance! Notwithstanding the Ombudsman's report, which is fully unilaterally targeted, I would like to present in this opinion the position of the SLS Group on the issue of so-called deleted. The SLS Group has been working to resolve the problem of so-called deleted all the time. Throughout the previous term, we have stressed that the only possible solution to the constitutional law is to solve the problem and also to recognise possible compensation to all who, when individually treated, would also be proven and found permanent stay in the Republic of Slovenia from 26 February 1992 onwards. We therefore stress that the decisions issued were illegal because they have no basis in any law. In this regard, of course, we will also act at the meeting of the national assembly at this point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u21	Thank you. We have ended this by presenting the views of the groups of Members! We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members. The word has been given by Ambassador Maja Potrat.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u22	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Matjaž Hanžek and his fellow Members. In the Hall of the National Assembly, there are many words that remind us of important historical milestones. Bastille fell today. Although the celebration of the 200-year anniversary of the French bourgeois Revolution has shown how different interpretations of this event can be, let me say that this is an indisputable event that has brought people respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. And that's why, no matter what kind of relationship someone has to revolutions, it's gonna be a bright historical moment for me. This is because we are talking today about whether we are ready for all human beings to recognize human rights and allow them to exercise them fully. This also entails the right to a free decision on the regulation of one's own status. It is rare that the regulation of the situation of people who have been wronged may run into such conflicting views. For the affected, there is bad comfort if, by contrast, the majority of those who speak of fate find that the state has wronged them if they are in the same breath, they set a number of conditions that show what they really think. If, in 1995, when the Ombudsman first pointed out the problem, he then used the term "discovered persons" and the lack of legislation, it is understandable that there was no response to this warning because the emotional charge after independence was too strong, but 10 years after the first mention of the problem, which was pointed out by the then Ombudsman, Mr Ivan Bizjak, it is understandable that we remain silent and without answers, but 10 years after this first warning and after the Constitutional Court's decision, it is indeed time to settle the matter. It is in the nature of the work of the Ombudsman that he builds on individual occasions because he is turned on by those who, when wronged, are able to do enough or are sufficiently informed or aware to seek a way out of injustice. And as it is not possible to command compassion for the suffering, it is not possible to command someone to accept the nationality of a country if they already have the nationality of another country, but it is not possible to deny them the right to permanent residence status if they have it. If I had ever been in a situation where I had to give up Slovenian citizenship in order to be able to settle my status, I am, as I now think, convinced that I would not accept it and that I would try to settle the situation in the way that it might be possible. However, so that we do not wander in the dark, and because we have heard that the Commission has accepted a harmful recommendation, let me read this from the magnetogram. "I ask, does anyone else have any suggestions? Yes, please, Mr. Rupar. Pavel Rupar: Thank you very much. So our proposal has been recommended as follows. The government and the competent ministries should, in view of the Ombudsman's findings that the situation of deleted persons has not yet been fully settled, do whatever is necessary to ensure that the situation is regulated in the System Law on deleted persons." Since I insisted that the recommendation should be written down, and the members of the commission felt that the record was not necessary here, I miss part of the magnetogram, then also said this: "Being aware that you are the only one who made the recommendation, then I think you could also understand it from the magnetogram what the exact diction was. It was a matter of imposing a recommendation on the government and the competent ministry to regulate the special report of the Ombudsman in a specific system law, in the light of the findings of the Special Report of the Ombudsman. I've filled out the "systemic" adjective. Thank you very much. I make such a proposal for a vote. Who supports such a recommendation?" This has been the case, so we have accepted what the members and members of the Commission thought was appropriate and therefore I invite you to support this recommendation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u23	Thank you. Comrade Pavel Rupar. It's a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u24	Thank you very much. It was my mistake, which we immediately informed both the public and the competent members of this commission. However, there has been a mistake due to a lack of stamina, and so I will not use it to do no harm again, i.e. the catastrophic management of the session. As many as there are confusional situations as there are, there can be such mistakes. And I made that mistake, of course. But I did it because I couldn't concentrate on what made sense or what was a message from our party's Group of Members. It's clear and loud, so I apologize for the mistake, but I can't forgive that you deliberately overlooked it. You deliberately missed it, and as a manipulation you repeated it again, even though you knew it was a mistake, other coalition colleagues missed it, I must say it, but I recall it and please kindly, not you and not the Shirci, I will not allow you to use it for argument. Your leadership of this commission is under criticism. We all know that. And let someone get confused about it. So please don't use or exploit mistakes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u25	I'm not gonna give you a replica of the replica. Mrs. Shirca, you have a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u26	Thank you very much. As a member of the Committee on Petitions, Human Rights and Equal Opportunities, I must state that the meeting was held in a normal, well-managed atmosphere, and as already presented in the summary of the magnetogram, it was a sober, constructive and all-acceptable decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u27	Thank you. We continue the debate. Member Aloys Sok has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u28	Thank you so much for saying that. I don't know, we're meeting this problem again and again in this National Assembly, and we're going to meet again and again, obviously, until it's resolved. But it is more than obvious, of course, that we remain on two shores to resolve this issue. And if everyone were to try to resolve this problem, especially the Ombudsman, of course, then I think we would be closer to a solution than we are. In the previous term, the opposition has shown intent and willingness to resolve this issue. We have taken the initiative, however, to change the basic constitutional charter and to indicate how we want to resolve this issue of deleted persons. However, the then ruling coalition did not have the hearing to actually write this down in the basic constitutional charter and solve this problem. So if you keep warning statistics about this problem, you are really so worried and so deeply concerned about the fate of these people, I have a simple proposal and the solution is simple. Agree to amend the basic constitutional charter and the problem will be resolved. And when we write down a basic constitutional charter, of course, it will also be possible for all who feel this problem to play a role. Each case will be dealt with on a case-by-case basis, as well as the amount of compensation, for some of you persist in saying that there will be no compensation after that solution, but the charges filed indicate that this will not be the case in the end. The damages will be settled. Because in what we wrote as a coalition of Slovenia at the time to change the basic constitutional charter or constitutional law, it is possible that compensation for those who actually have been wronged would be limited. That's when we wrote 150,000 tolars. So you can talk about these things. But that's not enough, obviously not much. And, of course, we all repeat that some of those who have been erased have been wronged because citizenship could not be settled under some objective circumstances. Most of them, of course, and here I also agree with the representative of New Slovenia, Mrs Uhanovo, who said, and we hear this several times, most of them did not want to. After all, the president of the deleted society, Mr. Todorovich, said on television, in front of the cameras, "Even if I had the chance, I won't take care of it." Thus, somehow as president of the deleted society, he pointed to this, and he made it clear that the most examples of these people are among those who did not really want to deal with it. And even today, of course, it would be a question of whether we would like to settle this. Of course, I understand these efforts by the Ombudsman, and in fact he would be expected to engage in all areas as much as in some categories of the population. I don't know, I'm here in the National Assembly recently on a very pressing issue, namely, the problem of those who leased loans to the SIB Bank, on the basis of the funds provided by the German state, and they have returned. Germany granted a 2% loan to Slovenia and then the SIB continued to transfer these loans to them at an extremely higher interest rate. I don't know if the Ombudsman, for example, has also tackled this problem, which is very difficult for one particular category. And it would be very good to help them as a guardian in solving this problem. Maybe you did. I don't know. If you did, then you did the right thing. But if you don't respond in that case, and in some, yes, then of course it's wrong. One more time. Today, as has been said, we will not support these conclusions adopted by the Commission. Mr Rupar also said how this conclusion had been reached to deal with the system law. With systemic, technical law, and so on, we've already tried to solve things. We also had a referendum on this. The vast majority of those who went to the referendum simply said that they did not want to be resolved by some technical law in the package, for all at the same time. But, of course, they pointed to this and said that they wanted this matter to be resolved, but in such a way that it would be dealt with from case to case. Of course, there is now an additional complication of what Mr Bohinc then did. Otherwise, not unlawfully, but on the basis of a decision of the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court's decision has replaced the law. So something happened in this country that I refused at the time, namely that the Constitutional Court assumed the role of legislator. Of course, this seems extremely controversial. And that this is controversial, and it also shows that the minister began to issue decisions and then stopped them because he probably realized at some point that he was not doing the right thing. I do not believe that the financial resources were the reason for this, although I think this figure of 36 million for the 4,000 decisions issued was an extremely high sum. It seems that there is another issue that Kosovo should probably face for some form of foreign earnings for certain people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u29	Thank you. A colleague, Stanislav Brenčič, has the floor. [[He's not here.]] We continue the debate. My friend Willy Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u30	Thank you very much. I've got the guardian's report in my hands. Some of you today have viewed it as such that it is little worth not taking into your hands or that even paper is not worth the thought or thought of paper. This has been said in this way, as if it is wasting judgment that is not allowed to doubt at all, and they have probably forgotten that doubt is the basis of all critical thinking. [[...]] But everyone wants to be critical. I think that the report is quite appropriate, that those of us who have not been currently following this event can create an image that, at the same time, when we doubt what we are considering, we should be rational and not be ashamed to say it because it is based on this report. Introductory speakers have shown, at least some, very different levels of debate. I guess there won't be any mistakes if I say that some of the speeches were so averse, that if I say more vividly, they were spoken from the stomach. And you don't speak rationally from your stomach. Some others, however, spoke differently. And I'd rather be inclined to think when we're talking and not give in to the vegetative nerve. The tone of the debate was so that, by chance in the same Rapporteur another report was published, it immediately reminded me that there was no difference in the tone of the debates of some of the discussions when we talked about the problem of domestic violence. Or he was quite similar to those debates we heard when we were talking about temporary displaced persons. This is therefore a common denominator in individual discussions. But I think we should do this in a different way and first find that the problem of deleted values, the problem of different structures, personality, the problem of different political and other interests, is also the problem of the spirit of time in which we live, and we are constructing this spirit. My no, it's not that I'm not a fan of cross-border debates for et contra. I am not in favour of evaluating individual personalities now, trying to dig up from the past everything that someone has ever done wrong. Realizing that we sometimes do something wrong, and that those who have been marked "deleted" have ever done anything wrong. At least some of them. But this has nothing to do with the problem. Nothing to do with this problem that we're dealing with right now. I can't find it here. My "yes" is in the sense that I am absolutely conflicting with the position that Mr Žnidaršič presented as the position of the DeSUS Group of Members, and it is my "yes" that we respect the decisions of the Constitutional Court, so that the stomach doesn't hurt us too much. As soon as possible, we need to settle this matter in a legal way, in a way that will also be fair, although there is no direct link between justice and justice, but let's try to, I would say, connect these two as well. That is why I will support this recommendation, and in this way I will try to recover some of the bogey that disappeared when we started the discussion in an aggressive way, and in this way I will try to restore some self-respect that could have been something more in this national assembly, in my judgment.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u31	Thank you. Martin Mikolitch has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u32	Thank you for your word. Nicely greeted. I am also of the opinion, as is the position of our parliamentary group, that only through the relevant constitutional law can we resolve the situation with regard to the deleted. On the basis of Article 40 of the Citizenship Act adopted before the adoption and before the adoption of the Constitution, anyone who asked for it could have obtained the nationality of the Republic if he had resided in Slovenia on 23 December 1990, i.e. on the day of plebiscite, on which all the inhabitants of Slovenia could have voted, irrespective of their nationality. On the basis of this 40th Article of the Citizenship Act, Slovenia has acquired the citizenship of more than 175 000 citizens of other republics of the former Yugoslavia, amounting to slightly more than 9% of the total population of Slovenia. The fact is that the case of deleted and the conflict that arose between the legislature and the national assembly and the Constitutional Court in the previous term cannot be resolved by ordinary law or by a decision of one of these authorities. The Constitutional Court, by its decision in force, intervened in the Constitutional Act on the implementation of the basic constitutional instrument. This has created a conflict at the constitutional level, which can only be resolved by an appropriate constitutional law. In the New Slovenia Group, we are in favour of correcting the possible injustices that have arisen, but not unilaterally, as some want, but justly, soberly, but primarily rationally. It is necessary to deal individually with the actual situation of individuals, publicly identify possible compensation issues and issues of retroactivity. You know, it is right to repeat itself repeatedly, especially because of those who cared about Slovenia's independence, why we are so intensely excited and for those who have been erased, we do not advocate for those who are still well-known to many today who were violently removed from their citizenship 60s ago. As a rule, citizenship must be seriously pursued by loyalty, belonging, language skills, and many others. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u33	Thank you. The word has magic. Franz Gniedarsich. [[He's not here.]] I give my word to Mir Friday.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u34	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. The special report of the Ombudsman on deleted issues certainly shows the complexity of the problem, the problem the country has failed to solve in a good decade, which is a problem which has poisoned the Slovenian public considerably in recent years. The Ombudsman's introduction in this report also shows that Slovenia was a fairly open country at its creation, as it ensured in its declaration of good intentions to all members of other nations and nationalities the right to universal, cultural and linguistic development. Further, it gave everyone with permanent residence the opportunity to acquire citizenship if they wanted to. The Citizenship Act is in its 40th Article for all members of the former Yugoslav republics who had plebiscite on 23 December 1990, registered permanent residence and actually lived here, obtaining Slovenian citizenship without any conditions if requested. And most people have taken care of this status. Those who later have been wronged by the State must be corrected by the State, but on a case-by-case basis. However, it is certainly not acceptable for some who have been erased to pursue their goals to take illegal paths. This is by blackmailing and threatening other people and property, which has happened recently in Dravograd. From such threats to terrorism is only a small step. Of course, on this occasion it is not possible to pass through those populations that were wiped out as JLA members among the aggressors to Slovenia. And as we know, there were casualties on the Slovenian side. Indeed, there were no cases in Slovenia where they would be legally convicted of aggression against Slovenia because the Slovenian courts did not judge and judge much. In the course of the aggression against Slovenia, they were not only victims, but also material damage. I will refer to the case of the Slovenian District Attorney's Office in the event that the residents of Dravograd claimed compensation for the damage caused by the JLA aggression against Dravograd, at which time the Slovenian Prosecutor's Office ruled that it was an unknown offender and dismissed the prosecution. So according to the D.A.'s logic, in 1991, Slovenia was attacked by unknown perpetrators. On the other hand, insurance companies refused damage claims if it was a war. There are losers and winners in every war. In this war for Slovenia, however, what happened also in Koroška is that after payment and reward those who were proved by the aggressors came. Those Slovenians who fought in Koroška for independent Slovenia tried to portray them as war criminals and sent them to The Hague. This perverse logic was followed by or even encouraged by the former ruling elite and culminated in the famous affair "Vič-Holmec", which was very much discussed here. That is why we are quite sensitive to these matters. As unfair as it is, if all deleted on the basis of certain individual exposures, which also have criminal records, were to be compared with criminals on average, it is also unfair that Koroše and the whole province of Koroška are represented as an impatient exotic Slovenian province. Such unfair and exaggerated public opinion creation is damaging to Slovenia and is also known in the European space, as some European public opinion polls place Slovenia in the European summit itself on intolerance. This is a distorted image of Slovenia, and we do not deserve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u35	Thank you. Happy Friend has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u36	Thank you, Madam President. Looks like we're going to set aside a few meetings in the National Assembly for the deleted. However, I would like to stress what on the one hand makes me very sad. We don't know how to handle war veterans properly. Even family members who have truly fallen for freedom cannot be cared for. In Slovenia we actually have 94,000 unemployed, 40,000 new ones are on the verge of poverty. For me, a problem that doesn't exist is deleted. You could say maybe even wiped out, not wiped out. You have several cases, even among them generals such as Mr Aksentijevic, who today are demanding a million-dollar compensation. The media is giving them an abnormally high level of attention. And it's just embarrassing that we don't know how to solve our own problems, we focus on such problems, to such a large extent, and we're wasting the time that we could direct it, and the energy that we could channel it into other, much-needed problems in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u37	Thank you. The word is Drago Koren.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u38	Thank you for your word, chairman. Surely there is a problem of deleted persons. The Ombudsman's report on this subject is extensive. It bothers me that the report touches only one category of deleted and forgets all the other categories that I think are also important. We still have a large number of deleted, not just from official records, but actually physically abused and eliminated after World War II. We don't want to deal with these. At least on 11 June, the President of the country made his speech clear and clear about what was going on with us at the time. The Ombudsman has apparently forgotten this subject. He also forgot about the deleted Slovenians and Slovenians, which were erased or erased by young Slovenian capitalists. People who, despite their decent work and loyalty to Slovenia, do not get paid after months. Have not those who have not been paid contributions been erased, and they have not been told? All of these are not covered in the Ombudsman's report. There aren't that many. It is true, however, that these people are good citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, that they do not organise public protests, that they do not decide on hunger strikes, although they do not have much to put in pots. They also do not have good free legal advisers and representatives to defend their rights, and they obviously do not have a Ombudsman. However, they have a calm and clear conscience that they have been honest citizens of our country throughout their lives. The problem of deleted issues addressed by the report needs to be addressed. Each case needs to be taken into account when dealing with it. For many of those who had been erased were not willing to sign up or sign up for selfish, calculus reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u39	Thank you. We continue the debate. Joseph Jerovšek has the word. [[He's not here.]] I give my word to my colleague, Joseph Scholch.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, colleagues, the Ombudsman! Today we should discuss this report and the decision drawn up by the mother's working body. However, I think that, in view of the above, there is also a need to talk about the things that have been said in the debate today, if they have already been cleared up many times. If I go in line, it is sad that we face the same report and the same problem for almost ten years in a row, and as a result of the greater pressures of people, and also by realizing that the state, state officials, as well as politics, were unable to resolve this problem. Except for a rare institution that hears the name of the Constitutional Court. Today, too, it is a feeling that this problem will not be solved as quickly as it should be. How do I see this ominous prediction? First of all, on the performance of Minister Matthew. What did the minister tell us in his performance? That decisions have ceased to be issued at the end of the previous term of office. I'm asking him why that is. Does the Constitutional Court’s decision no longer apply or thinks that it applied only to the previous term of office? I am also asking him what is with the promise, his and the government coalitions, to prepare a suitable legal solution to this problem by June. Today we are in June, and this solution is not here. What is with such sung efficiency, what is the meaning of a given word? Why isn't that so? Then we had here the performances of three parliamentary groups, Mr Petan, Mrs Uhanov and Mr President, who are trying to overcome this problem of citizenship. At least two of these speakers should say that you are deluding yourself on this issue. The issue deleted is not as has been said here several times and, as stated in the Constitutional Court's decision, the issue of citizenship, but the question of the possibility of living legally as foreigners in Slovenia. I am alone in this Chamber another rare person who has been quite stubbornly involved in the preparation of the acts of self-preservation, as well as these basic charters and all these laws, which are related to this. I have a very precise memory of what happened at the time, what was meant to be achieved, what was promised to all the people of Slovenia at the time. None of what's been said here today, if it's a matter of some negligence, it's not true. In these acts, on the one hand, the issue of citizenship has settled, normally for those who have had it, to obtain from the so-called republican citizenship, I will say, truly true citizenship. What has been arranged is what colleagues in New Slovenia say that no one cares that all Slovenians who are Slovenians by birth can acquire their nationality in a special way, either that the citizens of other republics of the former common country, or that they live in a substitute, or that they lived in a so-called diaspora. That's what the Citizenship Act brought in. And in this way it was possible for civil rights to be restored to those who fled after World War II and their descendants. That's what we were thinking about at the time. We were also thinking about whether to automatically grant citizenship by law to all who had a permanent residence in Slovenia. And here I would ask you to listen very carefully to this dilemma that was then. This option was serious in the game, but there was some liberal view that no one could be forced to become a citizen if they did not want it to be wrong and so it came up with this solution to apply for citizenship within six months, provided they are continuously registered on a date in the Republic of Slovenia, that is, I will say, this story. The granting of Slovenian citizenship by law to someone who does not wish to do so, even today, I think, would be unwise, probably imposed on these people, could also be the subject of some kind of violation of personal rights reports, and this violation would certainly be less dramatic than what we have before us today. That's why I repeat, Mrs. Uhanova, and my colleagues! It is not that these people did not want citizenship, our idea at the time was that they could stay in the Republic of Slovenia foreigners. That's the whole story. And to remain aliens in a legitimate way. The Constitutional Court, however, is in its decisions, and I think that in the late '90s, they have said something before which they all keep their eyes closed. The former government, too, that there will be no misunderstanding, and the government, which has committed this to be an illegal extermination. Unlawful in two ways. And here's the state's responsibility to correct this illegality. Illegal in the sense that there was no legal basis for this so-called transfer of records and illegal in the sense that individuals were not given a decision to know what had happened to them. Therefore, the talk of someone being invited to do so has no serious weight because no one has been given the decision to terminate this status as a lawful resident, until then, of the inhabitants of the Republic of Slovenia. This is, as far as it is possible to have reason to do this without anger, the weight of the problem. Of course, these mistakes, which I have named in my own time, I would not now like to bring the discussion elsewhere, everyone scared, and, of course, they did not want to admit it. Regardless of the fact that the Constitutional Court revealed it. From this point of view, we too, waiting for these people to get their status back in order, with such an act or another, will not gain new citizens, as many think, and new voters as many think. Foreigners, except for local elections, if I recall correctly, do not have this general election right in the Republic of Slovenia. From this point of view, this observation, which is repeatedly repeated, is inaccurate, misleading, incorrect, and tries to move things to another field. The further paradox of this debate is that, on the one hand, it is said that it is not possible for the whole group to give back this status, despite the fact that this was actually done to the whole group overnight, and as I have already said, without decisions. But what the paradox is to say is that we want individual treatment in this poison, which we're pouring on these people and we're grading it to a greater extent as, I don't know, today, for example, we've heard the Balkans, the bounty hunters. In past discussions, we have heard much worse than the aggressors and so on, and we allow for an exception that someone might be different. On the one hand, what did you have to ask for individual treatment and, on the other hand, stigmatize them as a group? Where is your consistency here? Where is your respect for anyone who has a problem, especially? It is even more worrying that this problem is trying to move into what is called the war on Slovenia. This, I'm sorry, handling these things has nothing to do with it. However, it means moving to this time of instigation that, in fact, as has been heard here today, by treating you the same way as other defenders, we would have overlooked that they were against Slovenia. Please! In fact, we charge 18 000 with such discussions in this case, but I do not know, the 27, 28 thousand people that have not requested them, unlike others for these papers, that they have actively fought against the independence of the Republic of Slovenia. This is what Parliament does instead of others. And to finish, I'm surprised at my colleague Rupar who said he made a mistake this time, but it's like football. He gave it to me. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u41	Mr. Skull, please finish.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u42	It's a carpool. [[...]] Everyone saw it, the judge would've confessed, and that's it.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u43	Members and Members present, I note that the time for discussion within the Group of Members of the Liberal Democracy has passed. Before I give you the replica of Mrs Uhan, let me just introduce you. Today's material is proposed by the Ombudsman. The recommendation to the material was made by the parent working body, i.e. the Commission for Petitions and Human Rights and Equal Opportunities. I want to tell you that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is neither one nor the other, so there is no way to answer the questions raised. Therefore, I ask all further debaters not to take the path of my colleague, Školč, and to ask questions to the government, because the government simply cannot answer them by the rules of procedure. Two of them have been reported to the replica. First it's Ambassador Uhan, then it's Comrade Rupar.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Mr. Skull, it's not about not getting any if you ask. We'd have won. All were given an opportunity, for all citizens who were not born in Slovenia. [[...]] [[A voice from behind.]] Of course he's going. [[...]] [[...]] [[A voice from behind.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u45	Please don't disturb the session.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u46	For the status of a foreigner or citizenship, you must have a permanent residence. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u47	The word has only a Member of Uhan. Please continue.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u48	The word has only a member of Uhanov. Please continue.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u49	If we asked, we'd get one or the other. And they didn't ask. That's what this is about. And they were invited by the state. And if it's settled down to 170 thousand people, I don't know why I can't get that 10%. [[...]] [[Talking to each other.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u50	Thank you. Reploco has a colleague, Pavel Rupar.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u51	Thank you. There's only so much to Mr. Skull. I proved once in my life for seven years that I was wrong, not that I was right. That I was wrong. All the courts under control, strict control, the Liberal Democracy and the United List proved that some citizens could not be wrong. That's what they proved. And let me also say that I was simply wrong. And yes, as far as I'm aware of football, very few cars are deliberately lost. They're usually due to error, ignorance, or just by accident. And please note that someone in this country may be mistaken. We are not all Liberal Democrats and unmistakable. You know that an ordinary citizen can also be wrong. I'm nothing more than that.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u52	Thank you. Comrade Skull, I warn you for the fourth time, don't speak when you don't have a word. You've spent your time. Be so kind to the National Assembly and let me run the session, and you don't answer. We continue on the basis of the Members and Members declared. Next is Anton Kokalja's debate. [[He's not here.]] Dmitry Kovacic has the word. You're giving up. There's a Master Branko Grimes. [[He's not here.]] Barbara Žgajner Tavš has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u53	Thank you so much for saying that. I'm actually going to be very short in this part. However, I will draw from the opening presentation by Mr Hanžk, the Ombudsman in the Republic of Slovenia. And I'm going to try to summarize it as accurately as possible. He said the purpose of the report was merely to present the Ombudsman's work in ten years. From this point of view, I am actually wondering what is being decided today or what is being addressed today in the National Assembly. It's a good thing I read the report. Finally, the Ombudsman said that the report should only be an indication of how the Ombudsman understood this issue, what he had been doing in the past nine or ten years and what he had proposed to politics. Therefore, it is only a subjective assessment of the Ombudsman. I must say that any objective assessment of what the Ombudsman has said today is, in fact, simply, I don't know, in my opinion unacceptable and unrealistic for this national assembly as well. Last time I heard from DeSUS today, I'll try to summarize it in the notes. "That's why the guardian was also appointed." Specifically, it was a speech on this report to present the report. We're interested in finding out. I am convinced that the Ombudsman was appointed or Mr Hanžek was appointed to the post of Ombudsman, with entirely different purposes and different needs in the Republic of Slovenia. In the end, I also heard a more rhetorical question from the Liberal Democracy or their Member: "Where is your morality?" Dear colleagues and colleagues, I hope that you will ask this question at the next item in the agenda so that the story of the previous year will not repeat when this National Assembly should ask itself where the Member and Members should have been when discussing the law on the protection of animals which spoke of the rights of the blind and the visually impaired. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u54	Thank you. The word is Jože Horvath. A replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u55	So those of us who've ever dealt with the problem of truth, roughly. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u56	I'm sorry, I was warned you weren't appointed, so I can't give you a replica. The name agreement is, you weren't, please, if we continue the discussion. Only Joze Horvath has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u57	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, dear Guardian! The new ruling coalition therefore faces another unresolved problem of the state of Slovenia, the problem of the deleted. I respect the efforts of the authors of the report under consideration today, but I doubt that it will contribute significantly to the solution. It may give us a new impetus to the government, and in the National Assembly we will have sufficient sobriety and understanding to step together and, in my firm conviction, only by constitutional law will we heal the Slovenian wound. Allow some facts to refresh your memory. Each country has its own dignity and its own legal order. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia is at the top of this order. The problem of former Minister Bohinc and others, who have led us to another plebiscite for Slovenia, here I am referring to the referendum on the so-called technical law on deleted persons, begins in disregard of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The appointed Minister and the Constitutional Court have forgotten the fundamental constitutional charter on the independence and independence of the Republic of Slovenia adopted by the Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia at the joint meeting of all the assemblies on 25 June 1991. The first article of the Charter states that the Republic of Slovenia is an independent and independent State and that the Constitution of the SFRJ ceases to apply. Ladies and gentlemen, on 25 June 1991 a new country was created here with all the consequences. The new authorities were aware of issues related to the inhabitants of the former Yugoslav republics. She offered them the opportunity to acquire citizenship quickly, easily and cheaply. The time for obtaining citizenship was limited to 6 months and 8 months for permanent residence. It was clear that those who did not want Slovenian citizenship would have to formalize their status as foreigners. Many have done so, some have not. Here the distinction begins between those who, on the basis of the Mayan declaration, wanted Slovenia alone and those who wanted Yugoslavia on the basis of the so-called basic charter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u58	Thank you. We continue the debate. The word is "Miran Potch."
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u59	Thank you very much. The Ombudsman's attempt to discuss the Ombudsman's special report is an optimistic desire that this National Assembly also realizes that it must finally implement the Constitutional Court's decision. I was still an optimist in my introduction and expected that it would actually happen. Now I don't believe it anymore. Oblivion in some, hatred in others, duality in others has gone so far as to make it easy for them to think that they are more than a constitutional court, that they can judge what must be done in a legal state by a decision of the Constitutional Court, but what does not have to be done. That, by the fact that they have taken power, they also have the full right and responsibility to shape the fate of the people who have been told by the Constitutional Court that they have been wronged by the State. Unfortunately, I have been optimistic and expected something else, indeed, and now all I have to do is believe that at least the government, which has to take care of legality in the same way or even more, will take some of this into account. Let me tell you, the responsibility lies with the ruling coalition. I was counting on being responsible to help, good or bad, solve this problem while I was in the ruling coalition. Now I don't feel this responsibility in the same way. You, gentlemen of the ruling coalition, will continue to allow your entire mandate to remain an unfulfilled decision by the Constitutional Court to offend 18,305 people, or you will be prepared to resolve it. If you do the right thing with the Constitutional Court's decision, you will be able to resolve it so that you do not need any constitutional law. If you want to play the Constitutional Court's decision, you will change the entire fundamental constitutional charter that we adopted fourteen years ago. Please and I expect the government to finally address this issue. If it does so as the ruling of the Constitutional Court, we will cooperate, otherwise Slovenia will have this stain on it, and however any of you will consciously want to create the impression that it is not guilty, that it is right and that it wants the good of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u60	Thank you. The word is "Bostian Zagorac."
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u61	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Some of the flowers in this report presented to us today by the Ombudsman are supposed to be human rights. For example, in this report we find a reference to "the law on foreigners does not contain any other provision regulating the situation of citizens of other republics". Of course, I agree not. I think that the existing provisions on how it was possible to acquire Slovenian citizenship are sufficiently clear and do not need any new additions. I will quote you, for example, Article 40 of the Law on the Citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia, so that you may remember and know the correct interpretation: "The citizen of the other republic who, on the day of plebiscite, had a registered permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia on 23 December 1990 and who actually lives here, acquires the citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia if, within 6 months of the entry into force of this Act, he submits an application for internal affairs to the competent administrative authority of the municipality in whose territory he has permanent residence." For me, this provision is crystal clear what had to be done at the time. And the Foreigners Act, article 81, Mr Hanžek: "For nationals of the SFRJ who are nationals of another republic and do not apply for citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia within 6 months of the entry into force of the Act on Citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia, its provisions shall enter into force within 2 months of the expiry of that period. However, if a negative decision has been applied for citizenship in due time and has been issued to them, the provisions of the Aliens Act shall enter into force for them within 2 months of the issue of the final decision." This article also seems crystal clear to me and accurately tells me what these people had to do if they wanted to become Slovenian citizens. Another matter that's going to be right in the eyes and you mentioned it in the report. You are surprised that some have been given negative decisions just because they were active members of JLA. I'm literally asking if you're making a fool of yourself in this House. Yeah, who attacked Slovenia in 1991? What should positive decisions be given them? People who attacked the Republic of Slovenia!? These are your intentions, these are your wishes. I'll tell you again, also from the articles I quoted: there is no problem deleted. If someone does not speculatively take advantage of legal options after obtaining citizenship, that is his problem. Ignoring the right kind of harms. Once again, and I am sure of this, as well as in the Slovenian National Party: the momentum that leads to the elimination of their "problems" is a quick speculative profit for both their representative and themselves at the expense of Slovenian taxpayers. Let me finish with a few more stats. In June 2005 88 000 941 unemployed persons in the Republic of Slovenia, I am talking about Slovenian citizens, on average in 2004 92 000 826 unemployed persons, the number of first-time job seekers 6 000 753 persons, the number of unemployed persons after the expiry of the contract for a certain period of time up to and including June 2005 16 thousand 203 persons, the number of bankruptcyists and redundant workers up to and including June 2005 7 thousand 462 persons, the amount of minimum wage in the Republic of Slovenia 117 thousand 500 tolars, the amount of guaranteed salary is 54 thousand 385 tolars. As we know, the uncompetitiveness of the Slovenian economy in European markets threatens us with 40,000 new unemployed. I think that the right to work is also a human right, and I will be very pleased when we do not spend 3 hours in this House to solve problems that are not, but we will deal with your report and we will deal with it for 3 days if it is necessary to solve these people's problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u62	Thank you. We continue the debate. Member Branko Grimes has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u63	Thank you for your word. When we talk about this report, let me begin by saying that it is very flawed and that I cannot say otherwise than that it is biased. However, thinking about this report in the past weeks has been possible on various occasions and when you are talking about some names, let me add one more: Stanislav Strašek. Probably doesn't mean anything to anyone in this hall. This is a police officer who was killed in the war for Slovenia, his death was limited to murder, and only 14 days ago, a plaque was laid on the Faculty of Philosophy. After 15 years, only a modest little plaque in memory of the man who gave the most he could give for this country. And since the issue of the deleted is inseparably linked to the issues of Slovenian independence, on this occasion we have also spoken a few words about many things, including the conduct of the so-called Ombudsman. For we talked about how much trouble our relatives had, how humiliated they felt when they listened to the debates of Members, in particular from LDS in the past period, which sought to maximize the reduction of compensation, the ratings, all that went to those who had lost the most they could in the war. On the other hand, we have the Ombudsman, who in this country insulted citizens and citizens, including those who sacrificed the most, with fascists, and compared them with Nazi Germany. For what? Look who was giving the orders. Who is responsible in some way for the death of Stanislav Strask? I personally heard General Aksentijevic in this Chamber, who threatened to kill everyone who would go to Slovenia's independence. That was an order, that was an order. And this man is being led as a so-called deleted person, and he was, as a so-called victim on national television, rotated in the form of a free video. And for such an achievement, we were still vilified to be Nazis. On POP TV, on the other TV, we were able to watch another man from the top of the so-called deleted, which, as you all know, was in that tank column that was shooting at civilians while entering the Holmec border crossing. Shot a cannon at the church. And on POP TV, this man declared dead coldly that he expected from this country, which he was already suing, and now he is suing, a compensation of at least 227 million Slovenian tolars, with interest worth. And for this rating, which is not comparable to the benevolent conduct of any other sovereign country in this world, we have been by the guardian of so-called human rights, as he understands clearly, vilified and compared with Nazi Germany. And if I add to this that there is an extensive collection of signatures against hate speech in these days, against sexism, as it is called, let me remind you that the sadistic, so-called guardian of human rights has afforded himself another exception when it comes to the victims of another violence. When he spoke of those unfortunate victims that Mr Trbębec had burned in his own oven, and when he used the expression of "smoker smoke" in connection with this outrageous crime during the crumbs of everyone present. Forgive me, ladies and gentlemen, we such institutions, in such a form, and especially with such a person who costs more than that state council, which we are all now giving as a negative case, we probably just need citizens and citizens of this country. We do not need anyone who systematically spreads an hate speech that under the cover of the protection of human rights will cause intolerance and spread it alone in his own words, and therefore - I speak only in his own name - you, Mr Hanžek, on behalf of yourself, and on behalf of those who have elected me, I call for you to do the only thing that you are, you can do to protect human rights in our Slovenia and withdraw immediately from this position. [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] And take this pamphlet you wrote about the deleted with you. [[...]] [[...]] [[Talking to each other.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u64	Thank you. Procedurally. Here you go, Mrs. Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u65	Thank you, Chairman. I note that you are introducing in the allocation of the word so far unused practice, not to take account of the sequence of the debates and debaters reported. And if any of those who have been announced in the court at the moment when they should have a word, they are not, then they have no right to speak. You've violated this rule at least twice now. But this is the first part from which I make a procedural proposal to take into account the practice that applies in this national assembly, because you refer to how you comply consistently with the rules of procedure and agreed rules. Secondly, given your extreme sensitivity to the words spoken, I would expect you not to intervene when someone speaks of deleted persons as being erased because you allow a distinction between those who recognize human rights to all and those who do not. But I would expect you to intervene at a time when someone in the Chamber dares to speak to the elected Ombudsman of Human Rights in the National Assembly, as the so-called Ombudsman of Human Rights. I would expect you to request an apology.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u66	Mrs Shirca, I am sorry that I have to have every session I hold - I apologize, Mrs Potter. I'm sorry to have to explain to you every session again that the list of applicants is different. You have a different list than I do. I have an up-to-date list that I'm gonna stick to. My list is happening as you Members tell me whether you want to have a changed order or which client is running out of time. Today it happened - I think it occurred to me - that I had to give my word to the five members of the Liberal Democracy because Mr Školč took it from them. I want to tell you that I will follow my list in the future. I won't give you another word or I'll give you my word to Mr. Rudolph Petan. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Mrs. Potter, you don't have a word. My friend Petan has the floor. [[He's not in the hall.]] Procedural? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u67	Mr Vice-President, you have not responded to a colleague's remark on the need to protect the dignity of the interlocutors who are here with us today. If someone talks about the "so-called" Ombudsman, let him be reminded, because there is a Ombudsman here with us, this is what my colleague Pate warned you about, otherwise we will all become "so-called" Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u68	We continue the debate. The speaker has the floor. Is the proposer coming in?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u69	Thank you very much. I was a little surprised that the hour was over. I don't have much to say. I have seen that the debate is the same as before, sometimes, misunderstandings or inability to understand remained the same. It's the same way. Therefore, honourable "so-called" Members would ask that they sometimes read something and try to understand something. The honourable Members have already understood this. There was a constant talk of citizenship. Please, please, it's not a problem of citizenship here. It was said that if asked to be deleted for permanent residence, they would have received it, they would have had permanent residence if they had not had it, they would not have been deleted. The fact is that the existing permanent residence has been deleted. It has been said, unfortunately or fortunately, that one of the Members has already said what I have seen on my own, when talking negatively about a group of people, talk about a group: they have collaborated with JLA, money hunters, selfish people, calculating people, and so on, maybe one of them is not like that; when it comes to solving these groups of selfish people, we will look at each other individually. Excuse me, let's be correct or you should be correct. I'd also like to ask once that things that aren't on the agenda don't get involved. Today's report on the deleted was on the table. A month ago, two months ago, you received the entire Ombudsman's report on the whole problem, 250 pages, where there are more or less all the things for which today [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] And it's always said that the guardian doesn't analyze them. [[...]] There's something else I'd like to explain. The Ombudsman does not solve the problems, the Ombudsman points out how to solve them, including the National Assembly. And please, if there's a lot of unemployment, I know it, we're writing a report, if some people can't get to the apartment, have the state assembly make, adopt the law, ask the government to solve this problem, not to blame either the guardian or deleted or everything else. Please, the people who have been wiped out for a great deal of unemployment are not to blame. The worst argument is: because there is so much unemployment, we will not solve other things, deleted or any other. All things must be resolved. And we're trying in September, October, when you talk about the Ombudsman's report, you can talk about it. Maybe just one more question, how many deleted, 18 thousand 305 people had that date, that fixed date, that permanent residence, and that said the Ministry of the Interior, and I don't know why we wouldn't believe the state. Another thing, much has been said that this is a unilateral report, a subjective report - yes, of course"! This report is completely unilateral, by the rule of law, human rights and the rule of law. And so I would also ask that, in its conclusions, you should think about it and vote on the rule of law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u70	Thank you. With this we have exhausted the expected order of the debaters and given that we still have ca. 50 minutes - I ask on the basis of Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, who still wants to discuss everything. I'd ask you to hold your hands for a long time so we can write you down. Mr. Gulic, you'll have the first word. Let me read my list. If it is not perfect, please warn me: Member Gulič, Kovacič, Rezman, Zagorac, Zaiovic, Aurelio Juri, Tanko, Szvikl, School, Bebler, Žgajner. I'll read the list of applicants again, because I won't be filling it out later. Gulič, Kovacic, Rezman, Zagorac, Sayociv, Aurelio, Tanko, Squeak, School, Bebler, Žgajner, Jazbec, Rupar, Friend, Grims, Potura, Pojbič. Good. Each of the panellists will have 2 minutes, and as I said at the outset, the first one has the word of his colleague Gulič.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u71	Respectable Ombudsman, esteemed president, colleague and colleague! Today we are discussing a special report on the issues deleted in the Ombudsman's annual reports and I think the report is well prepared. I have been following the issue all these years, and it is also more or less obvious from this report what man has created in these years. Of course, I can't get past everything I've heard today. Apparently, this germ has been preserved in this area since previous mandates, and it has in some way infected today's debaters. In previous mandates, we have encountered, and we have encountered, the transfer and escape, and, on the contrary, the unfortunate forgetfulness, recalculation, thoughtfulness, thoughtfulness, ignorance and, above all, trafficking in these people, swearing on the meaning of collective punishment, swearing on pedigree castration, on the fault of parents, etc. Everything we consider uncivilized and inhumane. Of course I'm condemning all of this. Good intentions also lead to hell and lead to hell when we push the road to others. I therefore propose that we take this report very, very seriously and vote, as the Ombudsman said, for the rule of law. I don't really have any special words about the so-called so-called so-called. You were spoken of by "so-called" MP.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u72	Thank you. We continue the debate. The word is Willy Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u73	Thank you. Some today tried to share the truth and would share it with the benefactors on the street. And they wondered how some of these truths cremated. Or with these cookies. Some said that the truths were different, some were subjective, others were objective, some mentioned transcendental religious, and some could be listed, and they wondered how we did not believe them in the future. How can we doubt that? I would just like to point out that there are also truths that cannot be questioned. But we're in Parliament today. Those truths that cannot be questioned are truths that cannot be proved. Such truths must be believed. But here we are not all so inclined to believe, some of us want to think.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u74	Thank you. I have the word Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u75	Thank you very much, Mr President, colleagues and colleagues. Today, there has been a great deal about this report, and the fact is that the task has been the past governments and it is also the task of this current government to solve this problem. In fact, as a well - known speaker put it, the proverb says that the hand that helps does more good than the mouth that prays. We are at a time when the matter needs to be resolved and helped, and this is the task of today's coalition. It also sounded good before and correctly recommended that ignorance of the law harmed. And that's what this is all about. We do not understand the law which entrusted the Ombudsman with the task of carrying out his task properly and honestly. We are here and the public has pointed out some things in their report and given us a task, and this task is particularly insensitive, indivisible, each one we see in our own way, but legal, which we must solve. In particular, I would like to draw attention to this last part of this legal task, which is most often misleading, but relates to compensation. The facts are only as follows: under this compensation for damage caused in the years 1992–2001, as the damage later occurred is negligible and is completely closed to all. By law, you must claim compensation no later than 3 years after you have found out about the damage and no later than 5 years after the damage has occurred. All policies have deceived the public into threatening huge damages, which must be restricted or even excluded by law. That's what this is about. This is read from the opinion of the eminent Slovenian lawyer and this is what counts and holds in the eyes of our legal public and in the eyes of Europe. Thank you very much. I'm sorry I'm a second late. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u76	Thank you. Next on the list is Dimitriy Kovacic. He's not here. My friend Aurelio Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u77	Thank you, Vice President. Let me quote: "Each of us sees his own way of life. But we all want to have one - quality survival. In distress, we hope that tomorrow will be better. There is no better tomorrow for a deleted one. Every other day, it only gets worse tomorrow. If you took away all your options, all your ambitions, all your dreams and your own self, you would only live and die slowly within yourself. This happened with the erasure, and much more; twelve years of suffering and survival. My husband decided that he would no longer live to do the last act that would leave behind the final indelible stain if the responsible did not respond. However, the owners decided that the deleted were not worthy of the achievements of civilization, that they were not worth a word. Don't comfort me with the thought of the future when someone is responsible for it." I received this today by e-mail from - and many of you probably also - the wife of Aleksandr Todorovic. Look, the final thought. As we listened to this debate today, I immediately recall the famous translator Dante, whom we have now appointed to Rome as Ambassador, Dr Capudra, and we could say a familiar sentence, let go of any hope you enter. For there is no hope that there will be a just solution to this problem. The only hope may be given by a representative of the Ministry of the Interior, last but not least, and then by the most recent European Court of Human Rights, because obviously we are not in a position to do so in the country. I hope that this path will also remain open to those who have been erased and that they will seek and achieve justice wherever they can. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u78	Thank you. The word is Milan M. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u79	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Messengers and Members! During this week, we did something good and stupid in the National Assembly. We will improve the income situation of pensioners and obviously follow the path of abolishing the anti-corruption commission. Today, we are talking about whether we will give 18.305 to our co-workers something similar to that which we gave to the other citizens of the European Union when we amend the electoral law - we have given them the right to run for their loved ones. And I cannot help but feel that we cannot go beyond internal differences, that we cannot give our co-conspirators the right that has been going on for decades from some of the instruments that have been adopted in the United Nations more than half a century ago. In this respect, both the report and what the Ombudsman has said must be supported. If we do not support this, then we remain "so-called" Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u80	Next on the list is Josef Školč.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u81	Thank you very much. So, colleagues, before that, the question has also been asked whether there is any European country that would be so generous about people who do not have an orderly status and stay in it. Mr Petan, of course, assumes that there is no such state. I would, however, like to say myself, to the case that you certainly remember, the new Spanish government, with Mr Zapaterr in charge, which has passed a law that has allowed all illegal immigrants in Spain, who have been judged to be far over a million, to practically without restriction register their residence and consequently settle all other problems. Where are the similarities and differences? Similarities are that anyone in any country who is illegal has problems at every step and may also be forced into a variety of illegal and improper conduct. Like when he's looking for a job, and so on. The difference between these and others is that they entered the country illegally and our deleted illegally lost their permanent residence status. Let me finish. This law registered 690.679 people in Spain. Much more generous than here.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u82	Thank you. The following is a discussion by Mrs Lovtišar Bebler, a fellow Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u83	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. So, respectable choir! Dear Guardian of Human Rights, Mr. Hanžek! Initially, I would only recommend that you forget what you heard here today, because, as has been said and heard, we do not all think, far from this, in this national assembly. Secondly, what has been repeatedly highlighted here today is that the problem of deleted existence exists and that it needs to be addressed. So let's save him. The ruling coalition has scissors and canvas in its hands to solve this problem. She predicted that she would draft the law, while some said that it would be a constitutional law, some said that it would be a systemic law, but look, since the Constitutional Court said that it was a matter of the matter of the law. So get him ready. We will support you in this if the content is what the Constitutional Court has already imposed. And you won't have any problems with us. You can also propose it after a reduced procedure, following an emergency procedure, you continue to use it, and even when we object to it, your word usually wins. So, come with the law, and we, as we say, will support you, we will not oppose you, and let us once again resolve this problem so that we will not be ashamed of us, not at home, not in Europe, not in the Council of Europe, nor before the Commissioner of the Council of Europe for Human Rights and not in the final phase before the European Court of Human Rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u84	Thank you. The word is from colleague Barbara Žgajner Tavš.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u85	Thank you very much. In the beginning, I'm going to get to the words of my colleague in front of me. I have to say, I'm not ashamed. I am not ashamed because I am Slovenian because I respect the rule of law in the Republic of Slovenia. I'm not ashamed of myself either in front of the local public or in front of a foreign public. I must say that I am surprised and not even surprised at the conclusion - and I will refer once again to the Ombudsman. He said he was surprised that the debate had ended an hour earlier than anticipated. It is not strange, however, that the Ombudsman is respected, but today we are actually considering your subjective assessment, which is collected in the report. It is also a report or a draft of past reports, as you yourself have pointed out. A subjective assessment that does not actually have any justification, at least so I understand the term subjective assessment. You have to listen to each other about these things. Well, and listen to one and the other side - colleague Zagorac already mentioned in the opening presentation the other side which I hope you have read or you can read it in the newspaper, specifically, Evening, 25.5.2005, a new story. I'm going to end up with an observation about a group of selfish people. You know, we Slovenians, when it comes to us, are often too selfish, so we're where we are, and that's why we have so little self-esteem.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u86	Thank you. We continue the debate. The word is French Jazbec, which is not in the hall. We continue on the list of those who are registered, and Paul Rupar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Hanžek! I'm not going to name you the Ombudsman on purpose, because I don't think you are. You can assume this function, but you're not the Ombudsman. You will be the guardian of human rights when you have the same passion as you will for those who have been erased, the Slovenians, the citizens of this Republic, for example mothers, separated from those who do not receive maintenance, and for those who have fled from them, the children suffer, not you. When you are equally passionate about correcting and eliminating those injustices that are still in this country, unfortunately, from day to day completely regularly on the current lane. Among them was the call for a so-called hate speech from this national assembly, which never was; it could have been thought differently, it could have been at a low level, but never hated. Never defend those who are hostile, in fact, by your actions, including by signing one and the same party and party, spread throughout this country, yet you are not a protector of individuals and you are not a protector of smaller groups. Except where you are, of course, rewarded and paid for it. Many have been wronged in the name of or in the realm. But as long as there is only one Aksentijevic among these 18 thousand, then allow doubt to be born in this Slovenia. And just one. Grims spoke well, and he gave an argument as to why this passion was so different. Especially because there are people in it who have been hostile against this country. And I would be very, very happy, Mr. Hanžek, to see you, Mr. Krivica, and Aksentijevic, recently, and perhaps also Mrs. Potato, who was licking ice cream at the time, lighting a candle for [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u88	Mr. Rupar, please, if you finish. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u89	The victim of Srebrenica. [[...]] At that time, I would be the guardian of human rights until [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u90	My friend Rupar, please, if you finish, or I'll take your word for it. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u91	And that's not for me. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u92	The next on the list of applicants is Member Happy Friend.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u93	Thank you, Madam President. The Ombudsman says it's the rule of law, so let me say my thoughts about it. Perhaps we all remember the use of explosives, whether the rule of law at that time acted wisely enough, tactfully enough and decisively enough - each individual is judged. Some stayed free of charge in the apartments of the year and year, and when Holding Slovenian Railways tried to establish some legal order and give housing rights to the Slovenian family, the whole pump was created. The Ombudsman did not see the rule of law back then. Of course, he lived in this apartment. If it wasn't for compensation, you say. Mr Aksentijevic, who commanded the Yugoslav People's Army units, is confident that he will soon be a very rich man in the Republic of Slovenia. And tell me, for the end, tell me, I don't know her, at least one country that would be as subtle and as good with the aggressors who actually attacked and compensated her people as this Slovenian.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u94	Thank you. The word has been given by Ambassador Maja Potrat.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u95	They're people without shame, people without conscience, so I'm not surprised that we react differently to different things. But it is true that there is also a law on the Ombudsman in this country. And I would like all those who believe that the Ombudsman does not have the power to eliminate the injustices that individuals in this country feel in order for all of them to join forces and propose a change to the law on the Ombudsman, which would confer greater powers on the Ombudsman. It would be good to think about it, because I see that they have a lot of imagination to make a wide variety of proposals for laws that they can also substantiate in such a way that lies become the truth. As regards self-respect, however, as regards the State of the Republic of Slovenia. Let someone look at the statistics and read there that we live not only in Slovenia, but also in Slovenia, but also in other nations and nationalities, and that we wrote with all those documents, as well as with the Constitution, that they are equal citizens and citizens, that we also have people with only permanent residence or temporary residence. But there are always people in the core, and that should be in front of us. But we like to quote whoever saves one man saved the whole world.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u96	Thank you. There's a Master Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u97	Thank you for your word. Two answers first. When we compare Slovenia and Spain, if we look at the number of inhabitants and the people who have settled their status, in Slovenia this figure is more than 10%, in Spain, the number mentioned above represents only slightly more than 1%. This is said to still be a ratio of 10:1 in favour of Slovenia. The other person who says that there is no compensation or that there will be no compensation does not know the decision of the Constitutional Court, where in the case in question the Constitutional Court has made it very clear that the compensation is not lawful to exempt. That's what they say. Compensation is a fact. Third. Why is this problem still not settled? Look, it's always broken at exactly one point. Because we always insisted that if any injustice was true, it should be corrected. Let it also be, but of course appropriate, with the real situation, coordinated compensation. However, in order to achieve this, it is necessary to deal with each case individually. Because of the lack of a decision by the Constitutional Court, which, of course, is massing everything in the same basket - which is what I said earlier, with the two most insidious cases - it is clear, however, that no country acting rationally will do so in the way that the current opposition has advocated in the previous term, that everything will first, and then look if it has given anyone too much. This was the principle of these negotiations [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] That there was indeed a problem, Mr Bohinc, who was then Minister, was also aware, and with him we already had almost a harmonised text, but then Mr Rob unilaterally failed, and this matter remained open until today. [[...]] In autumn, the Ministry of the Interior will make a new proposal for a constitutional law that will allow individual treatment of these problems, the regulation of all those problems or possible injustices that may be [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Please support this law and the matter will go from the agenda, as in the rule of law, which also treats its citizens and citizens fairly, to all alike. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u98	Thank you. The last on the list is Ambassador Marjan Pojbič. He's not in the hall. I also conclude the debate with this. As no amendments have been tabled to the draft report, the vote on the report will take place today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 15th agenda or no later than 21 hours and 10 minutes. This concludes this agenda item. We are moving on to the 9th item of the agenda, which is to consider the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on employment rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities after a reduced procedure. From this point on, I inform you that the debate is scheduled to take place for two hours. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I therefore give the floor to the representative of the Government to further explain the bill. There is no government representative. I ask Members and Members whether they want me to stop and try to secure the Minister. So, I'm going to interrupt in 10 minutes, so we're going to continue at 12.50. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u99	Dear Members and Members! We're moving on to nine. It's a day's work. I welcome the Minister very much, gentlemen mag. Janez Drobnič and I ask him to give his explanation as a representative of the government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u100	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has clearly stated in its programme that it is necessary to provide more employment opportunities for people with disabilities, since this is the most important and appropriate form of assistance for their integration into society. By employing the disabled in the best way, we ensure economic independence and equal opportunities. The amendments we are proposing will significantly increase by including the number of unemployed in vocational rehabilitation and employment and, of course, by reducing the number of unemployed accordingly. Employers will be stimulated to hire disabled people and this will no longer represent such a burden or, in other words, burdens will be more evenly distributed. The current law is largely inconclusive, as has been clear since its adoption in 2004, so we have prepared only those urgent changes that will ensure effective implementation, eliminate the inconsistencies of individual implementations, define individual institutions more appropriately and eliminate the legal gaps that have been identified at the beginning of the implementation of the law. An urgent change is the cooperation of professional workers in the employment rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities. Rehabilitation certainly requires presence, not only of the social professions, but also of the medical and technical professions. The composition of the rehabilitation regiments, which are exclusively expert committees of experts, experts, and persons with disabilities, shall allow the Commission to request that its elected trustee, disabled person or representative of a disability organisation be invited to be considered by the panel. In this case, too, the principle applies: nothing about disabled persons. When defining suitable jobs for persons with disabilities who eliminate restrictions on the identification of such jobs by employers and clearly define which act employers must comply with. This is an international organisation code for the treatment of disability in the workplace. In the case of employment of persons with disabilities, further good practice must be ensured and we are therefore introducing a change in the number of persons with disabilities in order to ensure their integration with non-disabled persons. The procedure for the acquisition and confiscation of the status of disabled enterprises and the content, scope and method of control of the operation of disabled companies shall be further regulated. It also coordinates the mandatory audit of the accounts to which disabled companies are bound by the Company Act, while reducing the costs of small disabled companies. The law introduces in Slovenia a quota system for employment of disabled persons, which will cheer many of those who are now on the list of unemployed and have been waiting for adequate employment for a long time. It allows employers, therefore, to make it possible, by completing their quota compliance, to regulate these quota replacement obligations by concluding a contract for business cooperation with the employment centre or disability enterprises in a false way, thereby accelerating their programme development and employment opportunities and by developing centres and disabled enterprises themselves. It also introduces a simpler way of implementing wage subsidies to people with disabilities in practice. By paying the cost of adapting the job to persons with disabilities and paying the cost of services to support employment, employers are encouraged to contribute to the wider employment of persons with disabilities. Finally, these amendments also harmonise the provisions of the Labour Relations Act and the Pension and Disability Insurance Act in particular with regard to the reasons for the termination of employment and the offer of other employment. Dear Members and Members! With these changes, we introduce an easier way for employers, disabled people and all those who help to achieve one of the key objectives of employment in the labour market for people with disabilities. And with that, integration into society. We suggest you support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u101	I thank the Minister for his explanation. Dear Members and Members! Even though we have already celebrated the memory of the victims of the terrorist attacks in London on Monday at the beginning of the session, today we will join Europeans and Europeans, with two minutes of silence, who are celebrating the memory of the victims in solidarity with Great Britain. That is how we will express our support for the world in the fight against terrorism. [[...]] [[Two minutes of silence.]] [[...]] Thank you. Proceed with agenda item 9. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons as a parent working body. I ask the Chairman of the Committee, Stanislav Brenčič, to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u102	Thank you very much for saying so, Mr President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you! Well, the parent working body responsible for this bill was discussed at the 6th ordinary meeting, 23.6. this year. Representatives of the proposer with the State Secretary, Marjetko Cotman, and the Acting Director of the Disability Directorate, Master Cvet Uršić, representatives of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, representatives of the National Council of Disabled Organizations and representatives of JHD participated in the work of the Committee. The Committee was informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which examined the draft law in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and the legislative and technical aspects and made comments to Articles 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 9, 11, 12, 13, 15, 18, 22, 24, 27 and 30. The National Council of Disabled Organizations of Slovenia, the Society for Theory and Culture of Handycap JHD, forwarded comments to the bill. The opinion supporting the bill was also forwarded by the State Council Commission for Social Activities. Among other things, the Commission drew attention to the content of Article 7 of the bill amending the composition of the rehabilitation commissions. Amendments of the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats were tabled within the time limit of the draft law with the first signed Master Majdo Potrata to Articles 7, 21, 22, 24 and 25. To the members of the committee, Mrs Cotman's State Secretary presented the purpose of the bill briefly in a similar context, as you have just heard, so I will not repeat it. However, a broad discussion took place on the Committee on Article 7 and on the proposal for an amendment to this Article. The view was raised that Article 7 should be deleted as it is necessary to maintain the existing arrangements of the rehabilitation commission. It no longer involves a member with his own disability experience at the request of disabled organisations, but can only be assisted by a disabled person's trustee or a representative of a disabled person at the request of that commission. Some discussers pointed out that this was a completely unjustified deterioration in the situation of people with disabilities. As a member of the Commission, a representative of persons with disabilities shall have the right to vote. The bill, however, has only the right to be present. Representatives of the disability organisation agreed to maintain the current arrangements for the composition of this Commission. The representative of the applicant rejected those explanations by arguing that Article 6 of the Act provides for a list of experts who are members of the Rehabilitation Commission, so Article 7 of the Act should also be recast in such a way that it makes clear that experts from various fields that are members of the Rehabilitation Commission are experts of their profession. In his view, persons with disabilities are not excluded, as the rehabilitation commission may, at the request of a disabled person, participate in the work of a disabled person or a representative of a disabled person. The broader debate also developed at the time of Articles 21, 22, 24 and 25. In the context of the debate on the individual articles of the bill and the amendments tabled, the Committee did not adopt the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group of Members to Articles 7, 21, 22, 24. As a result, the amendment to Article 25 became irrelevant. However, the Committee has adopted a number of its amendments, by which the proposal for a law has been fully revised in this regard, as the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly have justified. In accordance with its Rules of Procedure or Article 128, the Committee also confirmed all articles of the law which form an integral part of the amended proposal for a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u103	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. I ask the representative of the DeSUS Group, Mr Ivan Yelen, to present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u104	Thank you for your word. Honourable Vice-President, Members and Members of the Government! Our parliamentary group will support the proposed law, as supported by the existing law in the previous mandate, which is European-oriented, but unfortunately because of some inadequacies, it is not fully implemented. The proposed amendments and additions to the law eliminate these inconsistencies and urgent additions, which have been rounded up by the Home Committee in such a way that implementation can be achieved in the interest of the disabled. At the same time, there has been an urgent alignment of certain provisions with the Labour Relations Act and the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, with which the right to absolute protection of the employment of persons with disabilities has already been established. The proposed changes also reflect, to a certain extent, the needs arising from the rehabilitation and employment practices of persons with disabilities to help hire persons with disabilities on the one hand and help businesses that cannot be employed on the other hand. Our parliamentary group will also support, in the context of the adoption of the law, the amendment of coalition parties, which is aimed at avoiding abuses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mr Marijan Pojbič has the floor, on behalf of the SDS Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u106	Honourable Presidents, Honourable Fellows and Fellow Members! The Employment Rehabilitation and Employment Act, which entered into force on 25 June 2004, has not yet been fully implemented in practice and the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs has therefore drawn up a proposal for amendments that will allow the law to be clear, unequivocal, in line with other rules and financially feasible. The current situation, therefore, when some parts of the law are applied in practice and some are not, is unsustainable and prevents the effective implementation of the law and also undermines the principle of legal certainty and confidence in law. Therefore, effective implementation of the law requires changes that address the issues of professional workers in the employment rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities, criteria for the acquisition of disability status and the right to work rehabilitation, the composition of rehabilitation committees, suitable jobs, protective employment, employment centre, support employment, conditions for the operation of a disability undertaking, replacement of quotas, regular cancellations of the contract on the employment of persons with disabilities and the way in which the other relevant part of the disabled is provided, criteria for the determination of wage subsidies and the payment of costs, adjustments of the job and means of work, and payment of the costs of services in support of employment. With the proposed amendment to the Employment Rehabilitation and Employment Act, the basic principles on which the law is based remain unchanged. Even more so, the amendment of the law specifies these principles and further implements them through individual proposed amendments and additions. The purpose of the law is to increase the employability of persons with disabilities and to create conditions for their equal participation in the labour market. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we will support the amendment of the Employment Rehabilitation and Employment Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Germič has the floor on behalf of the LDS. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u108	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear members of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! With the Employment Rehabilitation and Employment Act, which has been in preparation for more than ten years and adopted in May 2004, we have introduced a comprehensive system of employment for people with disabilities. By law, we have increased the employability of persons with disabilities by means of employment rehabilitation, increased opportunities for suitable jobs for persons with disabilities through the possibility of adjusting working time, regulated the possibility of providing other appropriate work also with another employer, employment in protective employment, support employment and in disabled companies, introduced incentives for employment for shorter working hours, work at home, remote work, work with information and communication equipment at work, and provided greater protection in employment for persons with disabilities. The law has introduced ways of encouraging and not only blackmailing employers to increase the employment of disabled people by introducing a quota system and various financial incentives for employers and employees with disabilities. The law was urgently needed, as only active employment policy measures and the establishment of disabled companies have proved unable to reduce the number of unemployed persons, representing more than 10% of the share of all unemployed. On the proposed amendment to the law, we are asked in the Liberal Democracy Club, although the proposaler points out that the fundamental principles on which the present law is based do not change, the question of the eligibility to introduce changes to the law, particularly those not directly linked to compliance with other laws and regulations or the elimination of legal voids, since the law which entered into force in June 2004 has not yet been fully implemented in practice. In fact, it is not yet possible to measure the effects and results of an existing law which is not being implemented in practice and which is why it has not been possible to obtain them at that time. The full evaluation of the law, and in particular of the individual measures introduced, cannot be complete. Some of the proposed changes are therefore also without clear and reasoned reasons. If the amendments to the law were written very quickly, they could also be assessed at times in a non-professional manner, they showed the comments of the legislative and legal service. The Committee's amendments have been adopted, which have simply resolved poorly by deleting certain articles from the amendment of the law. In the Liberal Democracy Club, we are already in the debate and present our views on the adoption of the law in force, we have pointed to provisions which, in the interest of increased employment of people with disabilities, have an impact on the competitiveness of Slovenian companies. This content shall be reflected in the range of quota fixing and the amount of costs recognised to the employment centres or to disabled undertakings for the replacement of the quota. Article 21 of the amendment thus amends the provision allowing an employer who does not wish to employ certain quotas for disabled persons to enter into a contract after working with an employment centre or a disability undertaking if he contributes instead of 18 only 12 minimum wages. The reduction in the cost of the employer is not based on any empirical data or experience that has been experienced so far, as this provision is not yet implemented in the law in force. In view of the above, it is difficult to agree with the proposer that the amendment is necessary and that employers would otherwise not be interested in working with disabled companies, especially in view of the fact that the text of the current law has been initialled by all social partners. We therefore point out that the proposed amendment to the amendment of the law can, as a result, also reduce the possibility of hiring disabled persons. We would also like to draw attention to a change where the employer is not fully covered by the adjustment of the job and the means of work, but only at a maximum of 70% of the actual costs. This, one of the major substantive changes in the law, may have an important impact on employers' decision regarding the employment of disabled persons and, contrary to the applicant's reasoning, may mean that it will have a disstimulating impact on the employment of disabled persons. In the LDS, we will also support the amendment to Article 7 of the current law, as it is important, in our view, that a member participates in the rehabilitation commission with his own disability experience. In spite of these concerns, however, at the LDS Club, we believe that it is more important that the law finally begins to be fully implemented and that it provides the best possible opportunity for the employment of persons with disabilities and for their maximum integration into the labour force, and that is why we will undermine it. Of course, at the same time, we would like to make it clear once again that the proposed amendment of the law introduces certain changes over the thumb without the necessary analysis of the situation and clear justifications for the need for change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u109	Thank you very much. My word, ma'am. Majdo Potrato to give his position to the Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u110	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! We advocate the integration of all groups of the population into the labour market of those more difficult to employ, where the disabled clearly belong, and therefore the adoption of the law we are talking about today, of course its amended and updated version, was an important action. The integration of all is important for the faster development of society as a whole. However, if we come from the argument of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs that in 2004 it is necessary to amend the law, because although it has brought much good and new, but is not yet in practice implemented or not fully implemented, then it would be expected that the proposal for amendments and amendments to the law will be prepared in such a way as to maintain the principle of legal certainty and confidence in the law, which led to the drafting of the law. We believe that the law must be aligned with certain other laws, in particular the provisions of the Labour Relations Act and the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. We do not understand, however, why the proposal was so flawed, as the legislature also pointed out that eight other articles had to be cut down, which the drafters did not include in their proposal. Indeed, it has been complemented by a lot of this resolution on the Committee, but we must point out that we should expect the Ministry, which is entrusted with special care for work, family and social affairs, to show more sense for the needs of target groups which rightly expect understanding and assistance from the Ministry. That is why we have tabled a proposal of additions on behalf of the Social Democrats, which unfortunately have not been adopted. We will once again try to persuade you, Members of Parliament and Members to support at least now the amendment that follows the beliefs of non-governmental disability organisations, which seems unacceptable to them the proposed solution in Article 7 of the bill amending the composition of the rehabilitation commissions. We believe that the membership of a disabled person or person with his or her own disability experience is also essential because he or she can adequately represent the interests of the disabled. We consider that, in particular, those laws that have not yet been sufficiently tested in practice need to be followed with great caution by changes and additions. And that is what this bill can be seen to be. However, we believe that it is more important than the fact that the law goes into full force. It cannot be overlooked, however, that certain changes have also been made that change the original concept of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u111	Thank you very much. I'd like to take a word with you, Mr. Mag. Franca Capudra, New Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Employment of disabled people in Slovenia and around the world is a pressing problem, as their position in the labour market is becoming less favourable. In Nova Slovenija, we are convinced that it is not enough for the state to provide only financial support to the disabled at a more or less high level and then write them off or expect nothing from them. In our view, instead of relying on social assistance or life with social support, various forms of active cooperation and integration into the social and working environment should be provided. This quality of life builds up and enriches them, and, despite their disability, the disabled are more involved in society. Such involvement in society not only enriches them, but also gives them the right to call themselves an open and understanding society. Of course, for an active employment and integration policy, it is necessary to develop an appropriate working environment, which must be specially adapted and adequately stimulated for the person with disabilities who prepares such an environment. This is why the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopted the Act on Employment Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities in May 2004. The aim of the law was to increase the employment rate of persons with disabilities in Slovenia, increase the employability of persons with disabilities and social inclusion of persons with disabilities, provide opportunities for equal participation of persons with disabilities in the labour market by creating adequate jobs and working conditions for persons with disabilities, and improve the use of the financial resources allocated by the State to promote the employment of persons with disabilities. Unfortunately, in the short term, the application of the law has shown that the implementation of the law in individual segments is difficult, which undermines the principle of legal certainty and confidence in law. It is therefore necessary to adopt amendments and amendments to the law that will enable the law to be clear and unanimous and to be in line with other regulations and financially feasible. In Novi Slovenija we welcome the amendments to the law on employment rehabilitation and employment of disabled persons, as they make the basic law workable, especially in the composition of commissions and the criteria for obtaining and upgrading the status of disabled persons. In New Slovenia, we are convinced that the solutions in the proposed law also adequately answer the question of how to stimulate employers, to employ as many disabled persons as possible in their businesses and to obtain adequate domestic and foreign resources to do so. In New Slovenia, we are still convinced that the proposed law, with its solutions, will allow for increased employment opportunities for people with disabilities and integration into life, taking into account all the specificities of their situation and specific needs due to disability. Thus, disabled people will no longer be second-rate citizens, as they will also be able to create proper personal status by their work and also self-consumption and proof in society. In Novi Slovenija we will support changes to the Employment Rehabilitation and Employment Act. We will also support the government amendment, or coalition amendment, and we will not support the amendment of the Social Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mr Stanislav Brenčič has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u114	Thanks again for saying that. Although a broad debate took place last year, including within the framework of the social partners, during the adoption of the Employment Rehabilitation Act, and a number of changes have been made through it in the draft law, the purpose of the law has not yet been sufficiently achieved in practice. This is also due to some internal inconsistencies that the law still contains. It is perfectly normal for the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Labour, the Family and Social Affairs, to draw up a proposal for necessary amendments and additions concerning, in the first place, the completion of the criteria for the acquisition of disability status, which gives it the right to work rehabilitation, with regard to the change in the composition of the rehabilitation commissions, the definition of the suitability of the job, the conditions for the operation of the disability undertaking, the payment to the employment fund for the place of completion of the quota, the change in the payment of the costs of adapting the job. In addition, the proposal for amendments and the amendment of the law also eliminates the necessary non-compliance with the Labour Relations Act and the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. The amendments also relate to the determination of the amount of disability subsidy, in a protected position, both in support employment and in a disabled company, for which the procedure itself and the criteria will be prescribed by a sub-law issued by the competent minister. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will support the bill's proposal in order to ensure that the purpose for which the basic law was created and is now being supplemented to the fullest extent possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Ms Barbara Žgajner Tevš has the floor, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party. Excuse me, I said "Tevš" instead of "Tavš". I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u116	Thank you very much. In the introduction of this law, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has proposed or written, and I will state, "but the disabled remain the ones who, in addition to women and older workers, suffer the most in the current acute economic situation", the end of the quote. According to the proposaler, the changes that are necessary also because of the still non-implementation of the basic law resulting from the adjustment to the acquis of the European Union, adopted as we have already heard today, in the National Assembly of May last year. It is therefore a necessity after the adoption of amendments to make the law clear, uniform, they have yet to be written down and in line with other regulations and so on. Last but not least, it's supposed to be easier employment and easier social integration into the social system. And I'm going to stop at the last sentence, so it's easier to work, and I understand that social inclusion in the social system as well. The proposal for a new law is written down and allow me to read briefly: "If the employer cannot offer a new contract of employment to the disabled in accordance with paragraph 2 of the previous article on grounds of justification, or if the employer cannot offer a new contract of employment to the disabled or the disabled person, and so on, he may cancel the contract of employment on a regular basis for an indefinite period without offering a new contract of employment." So the novela changes absolute protection right only relatively. Your Honor, this is not a diction, but a diction that would seek to facilitate the employability or social inclusion of people with disabilities in society, social integration. This is actually a common term that we have also heard in the previous term when a law was passed in this Chamber, which is actually being amended today. Allow me, in the Slovenian National Party, at that time we have advocated the legalisation of the possibility that a person with a recognised disability status, under the Law on Social Protection of Physical and Mentally Affected Persons, will be entitled to work rehabilitation if he finds an employer who is willing to hire him. For such a disabled person, the rights arising from that law rest for the duration of his employment. The amendment, which actually contributes to the legalization of greater equality among persons with disabilities, which was first adopted by the home labour force of this National Assembly, was challenged by the United List of Social Democrats. That party who today took such a keen stand for the immediate purpose of the deleted. Even with the re-amendment at 3rd reading, the situation was similar. Members of the LDS and the United List of Social Democrats opposed the amendment. How quickly some people change their skins, I'd say. And which is even more interesting. Master Janez Drobnič, when reading the text of this amendment, among other things, I will not, of course, summarise everything because I do not have enough time, I said, quote: "This provision makes the system more acceptable, more adapted to the individual interests of the individual disabled person. I therefore propose that this decision or this amendment be adopted." As of last year, current Minister Drobnic took the position of opposition MP for something that he had overlooked today from the position of minister, when he actually had all the power to do so. The novelty that could include this change is not seeing any more than the necessary change in favour of the disabled in terms of their better integration. Let me have one more piece of information. In 2003, there were 11% of the unemployed people with disabilities. The country's policy in this area is worrying. Without content and unfortunately without a legal basis to stress how much someone, in this case the government, is pursuing a more open, beneficial human policy in the field of disabled persons. Please! All I had left to say in this part is that I will continue to deal with the amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u117	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate on the articles and amendments tabled, to be conducted on the basis of a review of the amendments of 13.7.2005. The amendments are tabled in two Articles, Articles 7 and 13. I am putting to the debate Article 7 and the amendment of the Group of Members of the Social Democrats. Who wants a word? Please, ma'am. Majda Potrat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u118	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. This technical problem, which has now been with the microphone, may have continued since yesterday, when part of my magnetogram has also disappeared strangely; well, because it is now returned, but it also shows that the technique has political conviction. We have tabled proposals for amendments to the law by the Social Democrats, based on the views of the disability organisations. In particular, I would like to point out that at this point, the composition of the rehabilitation commission must remain the same as it was in the 2004 law in force, and that the disability organisation FIHO and YHD have not been fully agreed on in the public more than once. It is not because of the interest of persons with disabilities that we are re-investing in the law of the amendment, which speaks of the fact that the provision of the amended bill in Article 7 should be deleted and that it should remain as it is now that an equal member with the possibility of voting is also a person with the experience of disability after the choice of a disability organisation. Indeed, it is an expert group, as they say, and it is impossible to guarantee always for every disability appropriate. However, we believe that disability organisations will already be able to choose such a person with the experience of disability, who will be able to adequately represent the interests of persons with disabilities. Although it has been possible to hear in the reports of the parliamentary groups that they do not intend to support this amendment, I would urge them to reconsider and listen to what different disability organisations think, as regards the attitude towards disability, but still agree with this point, and to support our amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mrs. Barbara Žgajner Tavš has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u120	Thank you very much again. Well, first of all, I must say that I am actually pleased that the United List of Social Democrats in this mandate is an opposition party and that it also finds a hearing for such proposals. Interestingly, this time they come from the viewpoints of disabled organizations. Let me remind you, last year, May 2004, that amendment that I was just talking about also came to the National Assembly on the proposal of disabled organisations, and was vehemently rejected by the United List of Social Democrats. We will support this amendment in the Slovenian National Party. We seek the principle of greater integration of people with disabilities into society, in fact in all social spheres. In this amendment, we see a step forward in this direction, which is being abolished by the law or the bill. But I'd like to continue where I've actually ended up before. Tax or fiscal policy in the Republic of Slovenia for people with disabilities, including disabled companies, is in fact extremely unfavourable. Disability companies can newly forgive disabled persons under this proposal of the law. Finally, the balance of the budget is also taken to promote the competitiveness of Slovenian companies, where disability companies can also be considered. Despite promises made a few years ago, today there is still no umbrella law on disabled persons, on mental health and could still be listed. Sad, truly sad. But with nice words, unfortunately, it's not possible to run politics for long. What's important is what's happening. We will take one step forward in the Slovenian National Party, including a more favourable tax policy for disabled companies. That is why I call on you, my fellow Members, here today, to submit a proposal or amendment to the parliamentary procedure in the coming week of the law on corporate income tax, which is certainly a step forward towards better integration of persons with disabilities in the labour market. As I said before, of course we support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u121	Thank you very much. I have allowed you a word, although the content was not entirely related to the amendment to Article 7. Anyone else want a debate? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Can I?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u123	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u124	Because I didn't know if I could talk.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u125	You didn't get the first word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u126	It seems incomprehensible to me to say that this is a deterioration of the situation of persons with disabilities, because there will be no member of the Commission on the basis of a proposal for a law with its own disability experience. Since the proposal for a law on occupational rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities proposes that the rehabilitation commission be composed exclusively of experts, namely the President of a medical specialist and a member of a specialist in the field of disability care with university, higher or higher vocational education of teachers, psychological, sociological, social or other social orientations, secondly, an expert in the field of employment and the labour market with university or higher vocational education, thirdly, an expert in specific fields with regard to the physical or mental impairment or illness of the person concerned. The second reason is that, given the treatment of disabled persons with different disabilities on all commissions, on I and II. the degree, as a member of the Commission with its own disability experience, would be virtually impossible to provide. As a replacement, the disabled person shall be given a legal opportunity to require that his designated disabled person or representative of a disability organisation be invited to the hearing or to the Senate of the Rehabilitation Commission. Therefore, the Slovenian Democratic Party will not support the amendment to Article 7 of the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Capuder, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u128	Thank you very much. I think Mr. Potts was right in front of me, but anyway. In New Slovenia, we believe that the amendment we are currently discussing is not such that we can support it. In our view, this is a little different understanding of the role of the expert commission. This expert commission is shrinking after this proposal, I think not according to the amendment proposal, but, according to the bill, it is shrinking from 5 to 4 and all members of this committee are supposed to be experts in their profession. However, that disabled persons are forgotten because we advocate that in the principle of disabled persons without disabled persons, we think it is good that disabled persons have their own representative, expert, representative, who can represent the disabled in a qualitative manner before such a commission. In the event that he is a member of the Commission, as proposed by his fellow Socialists, to be a member of the Commission with his own experience, I find it very difficult to obtain so many experts who have their own experience, so it would seem to me that it would be very difficult to draw up such a commission. So much for once. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Mr. Run, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u130	Thank you very much. I would like to highlight another aspect of our amendment. This is if we really respect the principle of disabled people, then certainly the current government proposal makes this situation worse and this principle. The composition of a commission, in which a disabled person as a fifth member would now be withdrawn, also means the right to co-decision, not only influence, but also one vote, and that voice would be the one that would guarantee the principle of nothing without disabled persons. I think it's a good idea to support him. Look, in the implementation of this law, this possibility has been given so far. I see no reason and no argument to be shown as bad. There are still experts, four of them in the majority, and they will be able to meet the professional criteria above all. It remains with the disability organisations that they will have to propose a candidate or a member. It could be if they were broad-minded and, with the exception of words, followed the principle that it could also be interchangeable, that it is not permanent, depending on who is being dealt with in a disability committee. So I must say, I think that a good understanding of this proposal and consideration of persons with disabilities must lead to support for this amendment. By the way, let me say that we have been very involved with people with disabilities in the Social Democracy and before in the United List, sometimes we have accepted their proposals individually, and sometimes we have not. It's kind of hard for me to hear that there's only one party in this national council that works and knows all the best, but we've all been doing bad all the time. I would say that there are many Slovenian proverbs about this too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Mr. Kokalj has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Once again, I would like to underline the arguments already put forward by my colleague Capuder regarding the appointment of an additional member with his own disability experience. In view of the fact that the treatment of disabled persons with different types of disability in all commissions, first and second, this is virtually impossible to ensure. As a substitute, as has already been said, a disabled person shall be given a legal opportunity to request that his designated disabled person or a representative of a disability organisation be invited to the hearing or the Senate of the Rehabilitation Commission. Moreover, if this amendment had been adopted, it would not have been in line with Article 6 of the amended law, which is closed and cannot be amended. The Article provides that the Minister shall establish a list of experts who are members of the rehabilitation commissions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Ma'am mag. Spending, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u134	Thank you. I just want to make it clear that I wasn't talking about an expert with a disability experience, but about a disabled person, about a disabled person, about a person with his own disability experience. What we propose does not alter or diminish the competence of the composition of the committees because experts remain. Nor do we demand that it expand beyond a certain number of members of the Commission. Now there were 5 of them, by the time a person with a disability experience is removed, the number is decreasing. Indeed, the legal possibility of a disabled person being able to request an authorised representative of his or her interests and I suppose that he or she would be an authorised person with his or her own disability experience. However, such a person or agent could not influence the decision of the rehabilitation commission. And that's essential. I wouldn't want to be insulting, but just one little thing to warn you. When we discussed this amendment at a meeting of the Labour, Family and Social Affairs Committee, people with a disability experience were also present. They wanted the word, they got the word, but they couldn't plug in, they couldn't turn on the microphone. Sometimes we need our own experience of some of the limitations of motor skills in order to know what needs to be done. That's all this is about. But no one denies that experts, as they are set up, know how to represent interests in the name of their profession. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Mr. Germich, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u136	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. We have already announced support for this amendment in support of the position of the Liberal Democracy Club. We also announced support for this amendment at the time of the discussion on the working body, where we were able to listen to very well-founded comments, including involving representatives of disabled organisations in the debate, and we had no sense of incompetence or less of the capacity of representatives who participated in a very high-quality debate. We therefore asked whether there was any actual experience based on a practice that would justify a change in the rehabilitation commissions and the appointment of such a representative. Of course, we didn't get that answer. As we have already said in the position of the Group of Members, these are changes that are on the ground very poor and based on broken foundations. And we are convinced that this change is also one that does not have a professional basis, based on broken foundations, and therefore we support this amendment. When we talk about the second amendment, we will base this on the very fact that the principle of good practice will also be legalised. If there is, we can also include people with disabilities with good practice in dealing with issues. Of course, we would like the national assembly to show this by means of such a change or deletion. But there is still a possible purely practical aspect here, which is of course less important, and perhaps it should be mentioned. There may sometimes be a vote on the plans on such a rehabilitation committee. And once the number of such votes has been reached, of course, such a representative in this committee could certainly prevail and weigh and shift the focus into a decision. That is why I will also support such an amendment as he suggested. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u137	Thank you. Your Honor! I will allow myself, even though in this place, to make my comment in this regard.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u138	I have been involved in this much of my life and it is a very interesting debate, especially because we are talking about people with disabilities. As I see, we all want to do something good in this sense forward. The Commission, which is composed, is extremely professional and professional. That's amazing. No other person who does not have an education will be able to influence the expert opinion of this Commission on disability. But I think the correct sentence is nothing about disabled people. Therefore, I believe that the presence of the person representing the disability organisation or association of persons with disabilities, who is taught how the legislation in this direction, which is taught about the daily problems of their equally affected people, is very important that he is also a member of this commission. Many times it will happen that those who make professional decisions do not know enough about legislation and what the life of persons with disabilities really is and what are the ways of people with disabilities after evaluation. Therefore, I think it would be right that those who are already admitted to this committee are not disabled with their experiences, disability is as much as a medical profession, but should be a representative of an organization or association of people with disabilities who have experience with problems and legislation concerning persons with disabilities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u139	Is there anyone else I'd like to discuss? If not, I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 13 and the amendment of the SDS, New Slovenia, SLS and DeSUS. Who wants a word? Please, Mr. Ivan Yelen.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u140	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Messengers and Members! I support the amendment of coalition parliamentary groups to the complementary proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Employment Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities. I think it's a good suggestion that this article of the amendment should have at least 5 people employed by employees and disabled companies. In the past, we have also witnessed to companies with fewer employees, which is not in the interest of the current coalition and economic justification. These were of interest following the legislation that has been defined so far to draw on the state budget, not to create. I therefore support the amendment in terms of employment or rehabilitation of persons with disabilities, their ability to do so, the creation of new values and the use of budgetary resources only in the case of at least five employees. I support the government's efforts in this direction. Not just money, but work is important. Work can contribute to improving health, self-confidence, which is a fundamental condition in preventing complete disability. I think the amendment is a good one, so I will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Mr. Germich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u142	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. First of all, I regret that we have not had the opportunity to discuss this amendment on the working body. Of course, I also strongly support the intention set out in the explanatory memorandum to ensure the possibility of working together and training disabled persons and non-disabled persons. At the same time, of course, I ask why criterion five, where is this basis for this division, because I believe it is necessary to fight for every job that can be designed. It might also be very good to have a justification, given the conclusion of this explanation, which suggests that such a determination will follow the recommendations in international documents, while also legislating the principle of good practice that has emerged in Slovenian practice. This amendment has already been discussed by the Minister in the opening presentation, although this has not yet been the content included in the amendment of the law. It would, of course, be very good to get more reasoned explanations and also the government's position on this amendment if it was afraid of abuse. I think that word was used, too, if I'm not mistaken. Then there is a need for abuse in my opinion to be pursued in a different way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u143	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. In accordance with the timing of the meeting, amendments will be decided today in the framework of the half-hour vote after the end of the 15th item of the agenda or at the latest at 21 hours 10 minutes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 12. PERIOD OF THE DAY, THIS IS FOR CONSIDERATION OF THE PROPOSAL FOR A AMENDMENT OF THE COURT OF JUSTICE LAW, PRIVATE PROCEDURE. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I understand that none of the government's representatives are in the hall, and I ask you whether we should interrupt the meeting in 10 minutes. Please. Procedural question. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u144	I would like to ask you, Mr President, to call everyone because all government representatives at each point know that we are working from point to point today, not for an hour. And we could be so polite to the National Assembly that we could follow the debate and come before that, so I object to taking a break every 10 minutes because ladies and gentlemen of the Government love to come to the meeting of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u145	Mr. Potts, I fully agree with your conclusion. I am adjourning the meeting for 10 minutes, and during this time we will call everyone who must be present on today's agenda. Thank you very much. I'm adjourning the session.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u146	Dear Members and Members! We continue on the 12th item of the agenda. I warmly welcome Secretary of State Robert Marolt of the Ministry of Justice and also give him my word.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u147	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. The Government, by means of a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Courts, provides for an extension of the time limit for the establishment of a centre for judicial education, a transfer of the provision of funds for rentals for business premises of courts at the Ministry of Justice, then an update of the jurisdiction of the District Courts on matters of international legal assistance, including matters relating to offences, and a change in the procedures for the appointment of the Presidents of the Courts. With regard to the amendment and additions to the law, we are removing the disputed restriction that has so far been contained in the law on the number of candidates proposed for the Presidents of the Courts. Of course, the Council of Justice will have to examine the professional competence of the proposed candidates, both from the point of view of the capacity to carry out judicial work and its management skills, and then, on this basis, it will only propose those candidates for whom it will assess that it can propose them with full responsibility for the appointment of the Presidents of the Courts. Once the Council of Justice has made its choice, the procedure in this regard will be completed and it will forward the names of the candidates to the Minister, who will then make the final decision in the selection. It is a matter of ensuring respect for constitutionality and legality through the proposed law in existing procedures. When weighing between the rights expected and the constitutional guarantee of equal protection of rights provided for in Article 22 of the Constitution, it is clear that in this case the protection of equality rights must have priority in the proceedings, since so far more than three candidates have been allowed to apply in the proceedings, which could not be taken into account because the judicial council has been limited in the selection process. Thus, after the current law, we have come to the point that candidates in this process, although they have absolute rights under the Constitution of equal protection of rights, have been limited to the exercise of this right. The proposed amendment respects the principle of legality, the principle of equal protection of rights, the prohibition of discrimination and the principle of the protection of acquired rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u148	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as the parent working body. I ask the committee president, Mrs Mojco Kucler Dolinar, to present the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u149	Nicely greeted! The Committee of the National Assembly for Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice considered the draft law at its 9th session. The representative of the proposed State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, in the context of the supplementary explanation to the article of the bill, added an additional explanation to Articles 1 and 6, which were then the only subject of discussion. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service took the opinion of this service in writing on Article 1 and 6 of the draft law, which states that the submission to Article 1 of the law, by which the Council elects candidates for the Presidents of the Courts, did not comply with the explanation set out in Article 6 of the Law, but that the Government’s legislative and legal service’s comment was taken into account in its reply of 22.6. The Government has also taken into account the technical comment of the legislative and legal service on this Article by means of the proposed amendment to Article 6. Representatives of the Judicial Council and the Slovenian Judicial Society were also invited to the meeting of the Committee. The representative of the Judicial Council presented the Council's written opinion and stressed that the Judicial Council supported all the articles of the bill, except for Articles 1 and 6, relating to the selection of candidates for the Presidents of the Courts. The two articles are surprising and have no reason to propose them either, since, according to the Council of Justice, the procedures for the selection of candidates have so far been non-problem. Nor does the Council of Justice argue that there is an urgent need for further explanation by the Government. In the opinion of the Judicial Council, Articles 1 and 6 are unnecessary, since the provisions of Article 62 of the Judicial Council Act have so far allowed for the choice to propose to the Minister less than three candidates. In addition, the representative of the Judicial Council described the procedure for the selection of candidates for the President of the Court of Justice in the Court of Justice and stressed that the Court of Justice is the basis for the evaluation or selection of candidates under Article 29 of the Judicial Service Act, which lays down the evaluation criteria. The opinion was also presented by representatives of the Slovenian Judicial Society, who also expressed their opposition to Articles 1 and 6 of the draft law, because, in their opinion, it is also possible to explain or explain to both articles of the draft law by a representative of the proposer, so that even after the adoption of the amendment of the law, the Council of Justice can also propose a single candidate in a different way, since it contains Article 1 of the Law the plural concept of candidates. So much for the opinion of the Slovenian Judicial Society. In a controversial debate on Articles 1 and 6 of the proposal, members and members of the opposition committee objected to both articles on the following grounds: that the articles are not necessary unless their intention is to deprive the judiciary of its role and responsibility in the selection of candidates; further that Article 6 is constitutionally questionable as the selection procedures already carried out within the Judicial Council are returned to the new proceedings; and that the two proposed articles are to try to prevent and increase the impact of policy on the third branch of the government. On the other hand, the members of the committee, on the part of the parties, supported the proposal of the law on the basis of the following reasons: that the provision so far which requires the Council of Justice to propose a maximum of three candidates to the Minister is discriminatory to all those candidates who have been notified who also fulfil all the tendering conditions or criteria laid down in Article 29 of the Judicial Service Act under which the selection of the Council of Justice is made; that the proposed amendment of the law does not restrict the role of the Council of Justice; that the amendment of the law will give the possibility of a wider choice between the candidates who have been declared to be such an important position as the President of the Court; that the deletion of the restriction on a maximum of three candidates will be primarily to the Council of Justice; and that Article 6 does not affect the rights already chosen, since the procedure is still in progress. In the context of the debate and the vote on the amendments, the Committee did not adopt the amendment of the SD Group of Members to Articles 1 and 6 and adopted its amendment. By eight votes in favour and two against, he also adopted all the other articles of the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u150	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Kovacic, SDS, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u151	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues, colleagues! Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be supported by the proposed Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts. The law does not provide for any major or systemic changes, but it is more about correcting certain provisions that have been shown to be better addressed. These are four changes that all provide improvements in relation to the regulation so far. In no way are they prejudiced in any way by the status and role of the courts, as independent branches of government, as we understand it in the Slovenian Constitution. The amendment that has so far been most exposed to the public concerns the extension of the possibility of proposing candidates for the Presidents of the Courts, since, following the proposed amendment, the Council of Justice may propose to the Minister for the appointment of the President of the Court more than 3 candidates, as it has been regulated so far. So far, the Council of Justice has been limited to a maximum of 3 candidates when proposing candidates. If he considers that more than three candidates meet all the conditions required and, in his opinion, they are, in the opinion of the Judicial Council, also suitable candidates for the presidency, the Judicial Council will be able to propose to the Minister, in a new manner, more than three candidates. This is certainly better than continuing to be limited by this requirement. The second amendment concerns the extension of the deadline for the establishment of a centre for education in the judiciary and the Council of Experts for this purpose. The fact is that the preparation and activities of the Ministry of Justice since the entry into force of the Law on Courts in July 2004 do not provide for the establishment of the Centre and the Council of Experts within the prescribed time limit. The prescribed period of one year from the entry into force of the Law on Courts has not actually been set, so it is therefore necessary to extend this period and, thereafter, objectively, it will be possible to provide everything necessary for the establishment of the Centre for Education and the Council of Experts. The third amendment confers on the Ministry of Justice the power to provide conditions and resources for rental relations from the courts to the Ministry of Justice. In doing so, the Ministry fully assumes all the basic tasks of providing spatial conditions for the work of the courts, which, of course, also includes the area of rental relations, which has so far been without reasonable grounds within the jurisdiction of the courts themselves. However, the last amendment also confers upon the District Courts the competence to exercise international legal assistance in the matter of offences, which is the most reasonable and logical in terms of the powers they have in relation to the decision on offences. In view of the most receptive part of the proposed amendments relating to the appointment of the Presidents of the Courts, the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group cannot understand why the Council, as well as the judiciary and some opposition parties, had so strongly opposed the proposed amendments, although the change in anything was without prejudice to the jurisdiction and legal or constitutional status of the Judicial Council. On the contrary, the proposed amendment helps the Council of Justice in the event that a number of candidates apply for the presidency, who all or some of them meet all the conditions laid down and fulfil, in the opinion of the Council of Justice, the ability and appropriateness to carry out the presidency. According to the regulation so far, the judicial council had to make its own selection. Even if he had found that more than three candidates applied for the President of the Court met all the conditions laid down and were also able and suitable for the presidency, he should not have proposed more than three candidates. He was restricted by the law. Therefore, it is certain that in such cases they could speak of discrimination against all those who have been expelled who are qualified, in accordance with the tendering conditions, and are also capable and eligible for the function they are applying for. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we support the proposed amendments to the Law on Courts, and we expect the government to make the necessary changes in this direction in the future to ensure that the trial is improved, that judicial proceedings are reduced and that judicial backlogs are reduced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Mrs. Darja Lovtišar Bebler, LDS, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u153	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, for your word. The LDS Club disagrees with the bill. According to the LDS Club, the proposed amendments to the Law on Courts substantially change the role of the Judicial Council, as they give the Justice Minister substantial powers to appoint the Presidents of the Courts as he now has. This increases the potential for policies to influence recruitment within the judiciary. The powers of the Presidents of the Courts are not negligible to us, not only that there is a judicial administration in their hands, but also that the members of the Personal Councils who form the assessments of the Judicial Service are not small. The President of the Court, however, is not only the executing authority but also the judicial authority. Complications with the appointment of the new President of the District Court in Murska Sobota are expected to confirm this. In view of the fact that the mandate of the President of the largest court in the country expires, among other things, this year's Ljubljana District Court, doubts can be so much more justified for the real purpose of the Minister. In addition, despite the fact that the proposed law has not yet been adopted, the Minister has already frozen procedures for the appointment of the new President of the Slovenian District Court, according to some information in March, since it is more than obvious that he wants the selection between candidates to take place on the basis of new amendments to the Law on Courts. Following the current regulation, the Presidents of the Court shall be appointed by the Minister of Justice for a period of six years, on the proposal of the Judicial Council. If a number of candidates apply for the seat, the Council of Justice shall select and submit to the Minister a reasoned proposal of no more than three candidates, which may indicate to which candidate it gives priority. So far, it has not been possible to observe the concerns of the Judicial Council that it is limited in its competence, because in the case of several candidates, it has to make a selection. It is more likely that the Minister of Justice wants to have a free hand in the appointment of the Presidents of the Courts, so the Council of Justice is transforming it into a mailbox which should send all incoming applications to the Minister. The latter is also pointed out by the Council of Justice when it says: "It would be totally unacceptable, as it would reasonably be based on the explanation of Article 6 of the bill, that the Council of Justice would be obliged to deliver an opinion on all the candidates applied for. The Council of Justice, as an expert body evaluating the work of each judge in the course of progress, would therefore lose the power to prevent a judge from competing in a management post who, according to the criteria for assessing the judicial service, is not fit to perform the managerial function. The decision on the professionality of the judicial service would thus be transferred to the Minister of Justice, which is not acceptable in the light of the legal powers of the Ministry of Justice and the Council of Justice." Such a judgmental world. When the proposed changes increased the temperature in the judiciary as well as in the public opinion, Minister Lovro Šturm explained, with regard to the proposed amendments to the Law on Judicial Service at the press conference, that they did not detract from the powers of the Judicial Council in the process of appointing the Presidents of the Courts or that they were not so designed and that the concerns that the new human resources policy in the judiciary would be entirely in the hands of the executive branch were unfounded. But we don't trust the minister. Finally, on the other hand, the legislative and legal service of the National Assembly, which stated it, pointed out: "The new doctrine and explanation of the amendment of Article 62 of the Law on Courts does not comply with the explanation of Article 6 of the Law, which provides that the Council of Justice must reopen the procedure for proposing candidates for the Presidents of the Courts which the Minister has not yet appointed before the implementation of the Law on Courts. It is explicitly stated in this explanation that the Council of Justice must submit all applications to the Minister in accordance with the provisions of the proposed law, together with its opinion on each candidate. This means that the Judicial Council, when proposing candidates, does not have a primary choice, which of the candidates will be proposed to the Minister... " You yourself are aware of the opinion of this Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. In the LDS, we believe that the law in the original explanation sets out the actual purpose of the proposed law and that the Minister is trying to avoid justified criticism. If both amendments are not supported or adopted, we will not adopt this law. Otherwise, we look forward to finding out that we were wrong and that the minister will act as he says he will now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Mr. Miran Potch has the floor. Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Unfortunately, one of our proposals, most importantly, was not adopted by Article 1, and we were unable to table a new amendment, so that the content of the law remains, as the president, the minister and the government majority imagines, so we will not support this law. In view of the formal changes, questions of the appointment of the Presidents and Vice-Presidents of the Courts are also included, and these issues can be very important in terms of the division of power and the independence of the judiciary into executives. In its explanation of the law, the Government stated to Article 1 that, with regard to the Presidents of the Courts responsible for the judicial administration, it is important that the Minister of Justice has a greater choice - I emphasise, a greater choice - in their appointment. Therefore, the law should delete the restriction on the basis of which the Council of Justice may send to the Minister a proposal of no more than three candidates for election. In its explanatory statement to Article 6, this objective has also been reinforced by the need for the judiciary - I stress, not easy, but the Council of Justice - to provide all applications, including the opinion on each candidate, in its pending appointment procedures. So in the first explanation, the truth was written down to the minister and the government. On the basis of the Government's comments, the legislative and legal service subsequently eased its explanations a little. In Article 1 of the Act, she explained that the judiciary is given only the possibility of law, not the obligation to propose more than three candidates to the minister. In its explanatory memorandum to Article 6, it deleted the text which ordered the Council of Justice to forward all candidates to the Minister. She made a formal mistake. Whether it is superficial or something else, I must say that I am sure it is not superficial, because I do not believe the current Minister of Justice in order to make the surface its characteristic. The question of the position of the Minister in the appointment process is therefore raised. And this is a question that we have different views on. The legal profession points out that, at the time when its President was the current Minister of Justice, the Constitutional Court, having examined the provisions of this Act, has already found that the principle of proportionality and the orderliness and independence of the judiciary from the executive branch can only be ensured by ensuring that the judicial council is detained among the candidates for the President of the Court of Justice. So, not by having them, or by being able to propose them as many as possible and having no responsibility, but vice versa. That he must be provided with a choice. However, the possibility of choosing a judicial council is certainly greater with a limited number of candidates than if it can propose everything. The Council of Justice and the judiciary of these Government proposals have therefore not supported. They were considered unnecessary and also constitutionally questionable, to Article 1 for violating the principle of independence and to Article 3 for violating the principle of retroactivity. These concerns were rejected by the government and by the majority in the parent’s working body. The Minister of Justice will therefore have a greater impact on the appointment of the Presidents and Vice-Presidents of the Courts. The political impact will be increased compared to that of the expert. The autonomy of justice will be reduced. This is not only incontrovertible, but this has been seen many times in this national assembly by the government's proposals and is a clear policy that this government advocates. Perhaps the government believes that because of the unregulated situation in the judiciary, it is even obliged to do so in order to improve it and ensure a reasonable trial. This is the only argument that would still be acceptable, and the government has failed. However, in such a case, the Government and the Minister should be aware that the public will rightly expect them to be able to deal effectively with the situation in the judiciary and that they will have to take full responsibility for the results of the government and the Minister on their shoulders, not to plead against anyone else, of course, not at the cost of politicising the judiciary and reducing the independence of the trial. It will also be easier for me as a Member in this regard, as I will be able to tell the frequent complaints and actions of individuals that it is up to the Minister and the Government whether tomorrow it will be different and much better in the judiciary. That's exactly what I'm gonna do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u156	Thank you very much. Ms Mojca Kucler Dolinar, New Slovenia has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Welcome also on my behalf and on behalf of the New Slovenia Group, in which we fully support amendments and additions to the Law on Courts. The amendments confer upon the Ministry of Justice the competence to provide spatial conditions for the full work of the courts, i.e. the provision of funds for rental relations. In view of the difficulties with space in some courts - the typical case is Ljubljana - we expect that the funds for this will be used in a cost-effective manner and that the judges will finally be allowed normal working conditions, both in the offices and in the courtrooms. The proposal also confers certain powers on the transfer of offences, so that matters of international legal assistance can be carried out by district courts, which also decide on matters. These changes are also supported by the Slovenian Judicial Society and the Council of Justice. For a useful solution in the New Slovenia Group, we also assess the change which will give the Council of Justice the possibility that this body, which is and will also be the first to sit among the candidates who have been declared Presidents of the Courts, will be able to choose one, two, three or four candidates or more, if it considers that their assessment by legal criteria is the same. Of course, this will depend on the number of candidates applied for and their expertise. So, with the amendment, we will remove the restriction that the law has imposed so far, so we do not understand such resistance on one side of the Council of Justice, nor do the opposition Members to this proposal. In the absence of doubts about the bill's proposal and in the light of all these transfers, which have also been made behind this booth, it seems useful to pass through the existing regime that has been in force so far and does not change with these amendments. Article 62 provides, inter alia, that the Presidents of the Courts shall be appointed by the Minister responsible for Justice on a proposal from the Judicial Council. So all the existing Presidents of the Courts were appointed by the Minister [[Minister]] for the judiciary which served as minister during the period when this function was called upon. I will not ask myself why, my fellow opposition, you did not find this controversial in recent years. The current method of appointing the Presidents of the Courts, as well as the institution of control over the conduct of the cases of the judicial administration, has so far allowed a limited impact of the executive branch on the judicial branch of the Authority. And, fellow Members and fellow Members, let me warn you that we are not setting this up in a new way, and we are not changing this way. I particularly think this message is important for all those who accompany us in today's debate. However, it is true that we are opening up the possibility for a judicial council to find that there are more than three candidates who meet the strict criteria for this responsibility, not only professionally, but also managerially. Well, he can suggest more. Has such a situation ever occurred and how the world of justice has so far decided and decided to bring the world to justice itself? He also remains on the Council of Justice to make his first choice, that is, to select and submit to the Minister a reasoned proposal for candidates. Newly said, there will be more than three candidates in this election, but there can be less - as it has been so far. Indisputably, the Council of Justice is composed of distinguished experts with important legal powers and responsibilities. The existing law provides that the Judicial Council may indicate to which candidate of those proposed to the Minister a preference. The law here, the existing law, says once again that it can and will be defined, which of the candidates gives the advantage it has for its favourite, but this is not necessarily and mandatory. So, the Presidents of the Courts are appointed by the Minister, have so far appointed them and will also be appointed in the future and will by no means interfere with the powers of the Judicial Council. There is an unjustified fear that the amendment of the law would make candidates worse in open procedures, but we are assessing the situation in the parliamentary group and we are confident that these changes will not deprive and affect candidates in any way. In Novi Slovenija we are still aware that the judicial function is very important, and this proposal for a law on changes and additions to the judiciary law is seen as a step in improving the situation in the field of justice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Kangler, SLS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u159	Thank you for your word. Dear Members and Members! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Courts following a reduced procedure. In the parliamentary group, we note that the government or the minister has prepared a good proposal for a law and that it introduces some of the innovations concerning the appointment of the president, and we also support the establishment of an education centre in 2006. In the parliamentary group, we also believe that the work or renegotiation of the judiciary under this bill will not remain, or that the role and influence of the judiciary remains, although we would like to point out in the Slovenian People's Party that the appointment of the President of the Court must be based primarily on the area of professionalism in the first place, and we want the President of the Court to be a man who, in the interests of expertise, would have both managerial and managerial competences and in this way be able to lead the courts successfully. In the past, as coalition partners in some previous governments, we have made a great effort for the Presidents of the Courts to have a greater influence and a greater role in the administration and administration of the court. After all, we find that it is the Presidents of the Court who are responsible for the work of the courts and - not to misinterpret us - that we do not support the fact that the President of the Court has a direct influence on the individual file and that it is important that he must be responsible for the work of each individual judge and be responsible for certain working relationships, both between the court and the individual judges. Today, we can see that individual judges do not need to report on their work to the President of the Courts, nor do they need to have the appropriate benefits, as regards the working relationship of absenteeism, leave and the like. In our opinion, in the Slovenian People's Party, we believe that it is the President of the Court who must have very good managerial and managerial skills in addition to the expertise and in some way support the view that it is necessary to strengthen the President of the Court in the sense that he is responsible for the work of the courts, for the operationality of the courts and that he organises the work of the courts, that those who seek the house of justice, both on the one hand and the injured persons and on the other hand, that they are satisfied with their rights as soon as possible in this House and that they find their right in this way that the courts and the work of the courts will run in accordance with all the normative rules that we govern in any way. We ourselves will support this proposal in the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group by means of a reduced procedure in its entirety.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u160	Thank you very much. The word is given by Mr. Victory Jelinčič the Noble. Please. On behalf of the SNS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u161	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. In the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group, we support this proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Courts. We believe that this is the first stone in a number of changes to be made by Slovenian courts, because in our view, Slovenian courts are largely incapacitated, politicians and, above all, the strangely breaking laws that some see in one way or another, according to preferences or political or any other. We agree that the Minister must have more powers and we feel that this is the right thing to do. After all, the courts have now acted as very strange institutions, which no one should have actually looked under their fingertips. On the one hand, they could have broken the laws, converted them in their own way, tried them in such a way, in another case, similar to or even the same, otherwise, depending on how political power, friendships, or the like was established. Even as far as knowledge is concerned, we can say that there is little damn knowledge in the courts. Let me just say that a curious matter occurred a few days ago when a lecturer in a law school, otherwise employed in a court of law, found or realized that she did not know her own field, because she did not know that the law had been passed on to a particular section of law last year and had to be told by students. It is also interesting that the State Advocate in Cyprus does not understand the decisions of the Supreme Court and interprets them in contravention of the law, in its own way or perhaps even in accordance with the former political preferences which have lost their power since the last elections. We therefore particularly welcome the establishment of this so-called centre for judicial education. I think this will be one of the most important matters cited by this law. I think it will also make sense to determine the capabilities of certain judges, judges and the Presidents of the courts. So we will really get the best staff at these jobs, and of course those who do not adhere to the laws will not be rewarded or rewarded by being able to go to other jobs, but will lose their jobs. In this regard, I think that, until now, the expertise of the judges has not been reviewed or evaluated by the Council of Judges, otherwise the judgment would not be as it is. For otherwise the judgments would be substantially different, even more firm, they would stand, and above all there would not be such violations of judicial proceedings and the dissuading of actual laws as has been the case so far. Surely there is something to blame here also for the so-called life sentence of judges when a judge, once seated on his chair, is nothing and no one can move him anymore. No matter how he violates the laws, how he converts them in his own way, and how he actually interprets these laws in the light of the current situation. We are convinced that it is also right to extend their work cycle in the District Courts. I think that makes sense. This could have been done a long time ago, so it could have been done a long time ago - or a judicial education centre had been established. After all, this law entered into force already in July 2004 and already the previous authorities if they had serious intentions to establish such an educational centre, they could do so and prepare the matter to that extent, so that they could cut the cord and start working. But I hope that the matter will be settled in a short time and that we can expect judges and judges to stick to the rule of law and the rule of law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Mr. Willi Rezman, DeSUS, also has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Our DeSUS Group has also undertaken a slightly more thorough reading of this proposal and, of course, we find that it has several different parts. We'll support some parts, but unfortunately, we can't. With regard to those transfers of individual powers, we have no concern and will support this. Also with regard to the training centre, we agree that it is necessary to move this time-frame because of the necessity, but now it is bad to move, because if it were already, and if we already had an expert council, of course this would be significantly better. The third issue is that of Articles 1 and 6. Unfortunately, we can't support that. This seems to us like a story of happiness when someone would like to make another happy, even though this other happiness somehow feels different and otherwise understands. In any case, therefore, happy judges and members of the judicial council should be, and so it is written down because fear pleases them in such a way that they have more opportunities. And there was neither a voice nor a voice from society nor from the judiciary about something that "not" wants any help, that they want any change. On the contrary, decidedly very clearly, and today it has already been said, quite sharply, they have rejected such help and such happiness. By the way, he remembered his own, now unfortunately a late fellow from the University of Belgrade, which he wrote in one of his books so that the greatest problem with communism was that he wanted to make people happy in every way and forcefully. This whole force of happiness is never the best. Maybe someone else is imagining something different. And I'm asking myself some questions again. Would we really please the judicial council, as suggested, if we allowed it to offer more than three suggestions? The judiciary says no, the judiciary says no. The question is whether it would not have been possible if the applicant had not withdrawn that interpretation to Article 6, then it was possible to understand the Council of Justice when a postman collecting what was proposed put into envelopes and carried forward to the Ministry so that the Ministry could decide whether the Council of Justice itself renounces the possibility of any selection. He did not show this desire, but the judicial world is a body in which people who have also received consent here and people who are probably worthy of respect and respect. At the very least, they probably have more legal knowledge than Parliament, and in particular their individuals. Was this possibly proposed because on the other hand it was necessary to have a more open door - at the Ministry? I think it's more about that, because then it would be a better option to choose compatibility. Now it could have happened that some of the compatible would not have come through the sieve. Would that possibly bother anyone? However, it is true that even after the new one, if there is a new one, there will in fact be no significant difference if the judiciary acts, as it now says, that it wants to do, in its own right, it will only propose as much as it wants, and it will carry out its selection and will not push everyone forward in this way. That is why we do not think that it will have a significant impact if we support DeSUS's Members all the amendments and even if they did not then support the law, if the amendments were not supported, because we know that there will be a replacement coalition player coming in anyway.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u164	Thank you very much. This concludes the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled, which will be guided by the review of the amendments of 13.7.2005. I am putting to the debate Article 6 and the amendment of the Group of Members of the Social Democrats. Who wants a word? Mr. Potts, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u165	Thank you very much. First of all, I would like to thank Mrs Mojca Kucler Dolinar, a respected colleague, for her kindest assessment that I am moving. I'm supposed to say that swindling is when you know something, and you act like you don't know. I've read the law very precisely, and I'm not cheating. Mrs. Dolinareva, you're being misdirected. For you are asserting things that are not true. You said that so far there has been no dispute, and now you're angry because you want to change. Exactly, so far there has been no dispute. And we don't even get angry if everything, like it was, stayed. And it is clear to us that the Minister can and must play an important role in the appointment of the President and the Vice-President of the Court. However, we believe that in this important, decisive, first, as the ruling of the Constitutional Court has been said, the Council of Justice must also play a role. We don't get angry, we don't get angry, because you're cheating when you say things don't change so much now, because things change so much. If someone owes to the selection of four, three or 15 candidates to make the selection of the best three according to the professional criteria - and this is what the judiciary has assured us, including you who led the meeting to do so solely by professional criteria, especially the professional criteria of the work of the judge, the work of the judge, the success of how much the matter solves, how much the matter is conveniently resolved for the client, but not, in short, for the quality of his trial. And these are the criteria they made. And nothing bothered them that they had to do their job so far. It seems to you that this is terribly wrong and to be broad-minded to the judiciary, if you tell them, you don't have to do it, but let the minister do it for you. We just say that, leave things the way they are, but if they are required or proposed to give more power to the minister than to the judiciary, then for us this strengthening, increasing the political role towards the experts. Nothing else! If there's any swindling here, then you don't know what the word swindling means and you'll just go to Slovenian spelling. And don't be too hard to be so honest and direct. That's how you have to talk, because I have enough wise people who, I think, speak phrases, and they don't want to admit the fact. I would like to tell Mr Jelinčič that I, too, support the establishment of an education centre. I would like to remind him that this centre was established by a law adopted in July 2004 or entered into force in July 2004. And I do not remember that Mr Jelinčič would have supported his establishment in particular at that time. And this law, for objective reasons, does not consider this to be a fault, only extends the period for setting up the centre from July 2005 to 1.1.2006. Okay, okay, no problem. I'm just asking nicely, not from this pay phone, to talk about how this law introduces an education center. That's not true. And it's coming to me slowly enough that we're able to speak half-truths for this speaker, and no one gets hurt. And now that the amendment to Article 6 has, unfortunately, remained the only one. See what it says: "In the procedures for the appointment of the Presidents of the Courts, which began before the entry into force of this law and is the Council of Justice until the entry into force of this law to the Minister responsible for Justice, has already sent a proposal under the seventh paragraph of Article 62 of the Law on Courts, the Ministry of Justice, and the proposal will return to the Council of Justice to carry out the procedure in accordance with the provisions of this Act." So, the invitation was made. Candidates have made themselves known, the Council of Justice has made an expert choice and has forwarded candidates who fulfil the conditions to the President, one but not more than three under the existing law. It's not right. In the course of the proceedings, when the candidates have been registered and the choice has been made, the President may or by law have to return the matter to the Council of Justice and tell him to do the full assessment again and that it should not be - and this is my comment - so very inappropriate that he will only propose three, because three has already proposed, but to propose another fourth and fifth, that the principle enshrined in the law be enforced so that the Minister will have a greater choice. I think it's politically bad that it's too obvious. Do you think we don't read what's written? Or, I'd say, ignorance is so strong that you think, given the public opinion, that you can do what you want. And secondly, this is conditional - this has been warned - it can, I do not say, also intervene in retroactivity or at least in the expected rights, because the three have already been maximized and can expect the three ministers to make a choice between them. And now it's out of the question, because everything has to go back to the judiciary again to choose again. I ask you to at least support this amendment in this respect and that, if this greater impact of the Minister on the election of the Presidents for all futures has to apply, let this be done in the course of the proceedings, so that I will not use the sport lingon - changing the rules between the game is not delicious. Think a little about where this arrogantness in providing human resources solutions in every way is only as much as it tastes like this coalition can go. Sooner or later, this will return to a negative light, as it has been for everyone who has done so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Mrs. Moica Kucler has a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u167	Thank you very much. I really used the word swindling because I think you know that the minister's powers are not increasing with anything. Its competence to appoint the President of the Court remains the same, the Council of Justice makes a choice between the candidates applied for and elects them and proposes them to be elected by the Minister. You can define yourself as your favorite, you can't. This is what the existing law stipulates. And since I believe you know that, I couldn't use the word ignorance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u168	Thank you very much. Mr. Pavlich has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u169	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Unfortunately, I cannot support the amendment to Article 1 because it is no longer available because you could no longer file it. Of course, I will be happy to support at least the one who abolishes Article 6, because that is the minimum legal hygiene that we must provide today and does not cut into the rights already acquired or into the procedures that have been initiated. As a former member of the Judicial Council during the period 1999-2004, and not least as a lawyer, I am surprised that the Minister has proposed a change concerning the recruitment or jurisdiction of the Judicial Council. The Minister is a respected lawyer, a professor of law, who taught us some of the things from here, was a constitutional judge, the President of the Constitutional Court, and I just hope that this change is, in fact, politically undermined, that the Minister did not understand. Which confirms to me the fact that a few months ago, when I asked him about specialised courts here, he did not know that, for example, he was one of the powers of the judiciary to propose candidates to the Minister for the President of the Court and that the Minister, as a representative of the executive branch, could in this way also influence the judiciary; but, of course, "check and balance" and, of course, the Constitutional Decision of 1997 had already been discussed by my colleague Lovtišar Bebler. Under everything she said, I sign and I also sign under every word of Mr Ptræ. They're both, by the way, respected lawyers. Therefore, I can interpret this political gesture of course as, for the first time, a gradual weakening of the judiciary and, of course, an increase in the political impact on recruitment even in the judiciary. And let me remind you, today, from our younger colleagues, our colleagues have heard quite a few quotes, but we have not heard the quote in Article 131 of the Constitution, which forgets that the Council of Justice is a constitutional body, a constitutional body composed of five top experts on the one hand, elected by us, the Constitution nicely states that these are experts coming out of the ranks of university professors, lawyers and other lawyers on the one hand and on the other, six prominent judges elected by judges. If, on the one hand, two such important bodies that are undoubtedly expert, the judiciary, on the other hand, is a lay society, but the Slovenian judiciary says to the Minister of Executives that this change is not only necessary, but that it is weak and leaves too open a garden for the so-called human rights "tsunami", then of course I would expect such a distinguished lawyer as Minister Dr. Sturm to listen to these changes. And here, unfortunately, I find that it is not a matter of deceiving on our part. I have a feeling several times today expressed this phrase: "We do not understand where such resistance to these changes is, we do not understand why such bitterness is on the part of the judiciary." Yeah, I'm starting to see why you don't understand. You don't understand the lack of knowledge, it says, it's written in the Law on Courts, it's written in the Constitution, and obviously we'd like to transfer the powers of the judiciary from the Law on Courts to, say, the Law on Postal Activities. For the role of the Council of Justice is apparently changing, as has been said today, into a mailbox or some kind of postman. Not to speak of course, I will quote, I have a legal practice here - sometimes I know you've all read it cheerfully, I don't know what it's like now, I still do - and in legal practice is the summary of Mr Bojan Breznik's debate, and the Chief Justice of the Judicial Council, on the committee, he said: "With this provision we think that you are taking what is most important - expertise. In the opinion of the Judicial Council, the proposed solution is unnecessary, since the current provision already allowed choices and the Judicial Council could also propose to the Minister less than three candidates if, on the basis of an expert opinion, it assessed that only one candidate met the professional criteria for the performance of this important leadership function." Otherwise, Mr Breznik asked himself about the reasons for the changes in the current regime, because so far they have not, I can talk about the first personal crowd, we have not, because I have been doing this function for five years, I gave it up a few months earlier because of the ministry, we have not found any problem. In four years, Members of Parliament and Members, in all cases, ministers or the Minister of Justice have listened to our proposals. So, on the one hand, we propose the most appropriate candidate and the Minister believes it. In just two cases, I repeat, in just two cases in four years, that was not the case. I do not understand how the Minister will now be facilitated if he receives 15 proposals or 20 proposals at the table without taking into account several professional arguments. We're changing something again, which works well. Is that a coincidence? I would like to believe the minister that he will not abuse this, but if we look at other cases, we want to introduce a port administration in the area of Luke Koper - but Luke Koper works fantastically. We are changing the staff composition of the supervisory boards of various companies that work well. We are trying to abolish a public railway agency, which has not even had the opportunity to start working well - but works and works well. Is that a coincidence? I don't know. I will, of course, support the amendment, but at the same time I regret that the Minister of Justice or the Ministry has not listened to the profession. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u170	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u171	Thank you so much for saying that. Perhaps you would like to replicate or respond to the explanations of respected colleagues of lawyers, respectable fellow lawyers, Members of Parliament! Look, the fact is, I would reject all your findings that are unfounded and irrelevant. On the contrary, the proposal of the law even strengthens and increases the power and responsibility of the Judicial Council because the Judicial Council will now have the right to propose to the Minister the appointment of the President of one candidate, two, three or more, or possibly none, if none of the candidates applied for according to the Council of Justice. The fact is, once again, I stress that the decision will still be on the Council of Justice. As so far as this amendment to the law is adopted, the Council of Justice will have the power to propose candidates to the Minister for Election. That is why this leadership, honourable Members and honourable Members, is indeed misleading to the public, because in our proposal and explanation, it is not valid, it does not. The fact is that the Council of Justice is not a postman, nor will it be a postman who should propose all the candidates, but will have to decide between the candidates who are registered. However, the Government has also been forced to cut into this amendment of the law for the purposes of Article 6 in order to ensure respect for constitutionality and legality in existing procedures. When weighing between the rights expected and the constitutional guarantee of equal protection of rights provided for in Article 22 of the Constitution, it is clear that in this case the protection of equality rights must have priority in the proceedings, since so far more than three candidates have been allowed to apply in the proceedings, which could not be taken into account because of the restrictions the Council of Justice had in the law in force in the choice. So we are actually increasing the jurisdiction and, of course, the responsibility of the Council of Justice, and by no means holding your statement that we are giving the Minister of Justice greater powers. That's not true at all. The fact is that the amendment of the law in the event that it is adopted did not deprive any candidate of their rights. If someone has been unjustifiably rejected under the applicable legislation, the amendment gives him only the right opportunity to cooperate equally while the existing provision was discriminatory between possible [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Candidates. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Mr. Gantar has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u173	[[...]] [[Speak without the microphone.]] Oh, now I'm on. [[...]] I hope I don't have to do this again. I would say, above all, that I will intervene as a lawyer in a legal debate. First of all, I would like to say that I will support the amendment to Article 6, and my argument is that when we look at this small change you are talking about, we need to look at this small change in some broader context of recent legislative changes: the law on RTV, the law on access to information of a public nature, the law on many more, the law on public servants and everything else on the table, and we gradually observe and act, and so on, almost undetectably close the doors to autonomy and freedom. The Anti-Corruption Act, and so on, so that we do not forget. One step at a time. I will not claim that this change you are now introducing is an attack, a general attack on the autonomy of the judiciary. It doesn't occur to me to say anything like that. A small step towards restricting the judiciary, but it does. They are presented in the exact sense in which the Secretary of State stated it and presented very clearly by our fellow Member, Victory Jelinčič. He understood the law and interpreted it correctly, and I object to it because of this correct interpretation of it. And there's no haphazard here. Of course, this small change means, above all, that the judiciary will still be able to propose one, two or three candidates if it considers them appropriate. But the minister will always be able to demand that he is not satisfied with these three candidates - send me another fourth, fifth, sixth. When I asked on the committee - and I repeat, it will be possible to request, it will be possible to do so, it will reject all three candidates and it will say, send me a fourth, a fifth and a sixth. And that's what he's gonna do. And it is precisely that the fact that the Minister is given a greater role as a political person towards the autonomy of the judiciary is that unacceptable step for me, that small step towards reducing the autonomy of the judiciary. And the Secretary of State, I would only warn him not to prescribe an intelligent quota below 70 so that we do not understand what this law actually proposes. That is why, of course, I will support this amendment, which will not be adopted, and even if it does, it will not really mean much. But I'm going to tear him down because someday it's going to be known that I knew about it, that I warned him about it, and that I was on a couple of sides about these things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u174	Thank you very much. Mr Kovacic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u175	Thank you very much. I myself believe that some of the previous discussions have been largely focused on misdirection and also with a large dose of sense for manipulating and misleading the public. I think that was also the purpose of these debaters. Talking about the role of the judiciary being limited or focused solely on the role of the mailman is utter nonsense. Do you then claim that the role of the official council in the procedures for the appointment of public servants is limited to the role of the postman? There too is the same sieve of the official council, through which proposals then go to the appointment of the minister. The procedure for the appointment of the Presidents of the Courts provides - and in this respect nothing changes in the light of the regulation so far - for the Minister of Justice to elect and appoint the President of the Court of Justice from among the candidates proposed by the Judicial Council. He is bound only on the proposal of the Council of Justice and nothing else. So, the Minister is responsible for selecting from several candidates, in all respects qualified candidates, namely those proposed previously as qualified by the Judicial Council. By appointing a minister, he also assumes an important responsibility for this choice. So it's the minister's responsibility. The Council of Justice has no responsibility for the appointment of the Minister, does not take over, so it should also be in the interest of the Judicial Council and not only the Minister to obtain more proposed candidates if they meet the conditions of both professional competence and suitability and the ability to carry out this leadership function successfully. It is not right that the Council of Justice should already carry out the selection process, when it weighs and assesses those candidates who all meet the conditions and are, in the opinion of the Council of Justice, also able and fit for the presidency. If the Council of Justice assumes its own weighting, judgment, selection and also the exclusion of certain qualified and suitable candidates, it shall thereby deprive the Minister of a certain competence which it otherwise has in law. And in this way it also deprives him of the possibility of choosing and appointing that, I repeat, qualified and suitable candidate, which he had previously excluded from the proceedings by the Council of Justice. The Minister no longer has this option because he has been voted out by the Council of Justice, although he is professionally qualified in all respects and is also appropriate in the opinion of the Council of Justice, but he now had to be expelled because he had such a legal restriction. And the judiciary thus expelled him not because he failed to meet the conditions, or because he was inadequate, or because he had this legal restriction. As it is said, with the current regime, in individual cases the judicial council can thus assume part of the minister's responsibilities, part of the minister's responsibilities, namely the part where the judicial council itself excludes a registered candidate who is competent in all respects. However, only the Minister should have this right. This is a case where we can actually talk about discrimination against someone who is ahead of time before being decided by a minister who is excluded from the game, even though this game meets all the conditions and all the rules applicable to this game. Therefore, I find this scrupulous defense of the existing arrangement somewhat similar to the debate on the back of the shadow. In fact, the proposed legislative change in nothing takes on any powers of the judicial council, although I personally believe that it would also suggest that certain changes be made in this direction in the future. Of course, not those who would in any way interfere with the generally recognised principles on the independence of the judiciary as the third branch of government. For the Council of Justice is not from the god-given institution, which has been established once and for all, and thus its institutional powers are unalterable and eternal. I don't think so. The Council of Justice and its powers must be and must be, like all others, subject to a continuous process of changing, adapting to the changing circumstances that life brings. Therefore, in this area too, new solutions need to be constantly sought, which will improve the situation, all in order to ensure greater efficiency. However, this efficiency in the field of justice must never be borne in mind by its independence, which is ensured by the Constitution and also by the general internationally recognised legal principles. Therefore, the changes that contribute to progress in the field of justice, while fully ensuring these generally recognised principles, are very welcome. We have very little confidence in the justice and efficiency of the judicial system. Therefore, in the future, it does not appear to avoid changes that will take a step further in this direction as well. Let me say this in the end. As far as this amendment is concerned, I say that there is no interference with the rights acquired, as no one has acquired any rights in this procedure. The process is under way, no one has been given any decision, no one has received any decision, so we cannot talk about interfering with the rights acquired, as there have been no rights acquired. Therefore, this proposed amendment is unfounded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Mr. Kokalj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u177	Thank you very much. The debate under way is in fact the same as the debate that took place on the Committee. I am surprised by this debate mainly from the point of view of the argument, whether to intervene or to increase the powers of the minister. So far, no one has proposed that the Council of Justice appoint a President of the Court. In this case, this debate, if it were to interfere with the jurisdiction of the judiciary, would be logical. In view of the proposed amendment, which simply wants the law not to be fully enforced if it is adopted as proposed, it is of course understood from a political point of view, namely, that it is clearly certain names that are in the procedure through the Judicial Council as candidates, for example, I suppose, for the Presidents of the courts it has already gone through and that these names must now be defended. All that would mean for the implementation of Article 6 is that the Council of Justice re-examines the already proposed candidates and can propose more if, of course, it considers them to be professionally qualified to change the rules of the game, but for all who have run for office. I am therefore surprised at the arguments put forward by Mr Potrč regarding the delimitation between the political and professional decisions. I think that the bill actually makes it clearer who decides professionally on this procedure and who decides politically. No one objects to the decision of the minister in the end. The Minister's decision is clearly political, I think that is clear to everyone. Now, whether it is between ten or two candidates - jurisdiction is exactly the same, the decision is political, but the proposed proposal relieves the judiciary of actual political decisions when it has three or more equal candidates at its disposal, it must propose to the Minister three candidates and the Council of Justice cannot then decide professionally but must make a political decision. He has to give candidates who would otherwise meet the professional criteria in some way off the list. Therefore, all I am saying is that the bill is written in the right direction, as I have said before, in the delimitation or greater hygiene between expertise and politics, and in this context I do not support this amendment, because I believe that this hygiene needs to be introduced as soon as possible. With regard to the Minister's decision itself, as previously stated by Mr Pavliha, if this increases the political power of the Minister, I simply do not know why he should, in any event, decide only one person. He just has a better choice. And I think that this is just a step forward in quality and I can understand the whole debate only in this context, as I said before, only from the political aspect of defending certain candidates who have already gone through the sieve have not yet been called the only suitable and suitable for the Presidents of the Courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u178	Thank you very much. Mr. Petan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u179	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! It is clear that the most important part of this change, which is ahead of us, is this limit, the famous limit of three or the famous three candidates that the judiciary must hand over or less, but three can do the most. The fact is, we want to have a bigger choice everywhere. In this area we should have a large set, because if we do not have one, something is wrong, because we have a lot in Slovenia. A lot of students finish and graduate from both universities, right, and they should have a frame, but if we don't have one, then something's wrong. The fact that they have to wait for the midterm for seven years on average is already saying something's wrong, but that's another story, that's something else. On the other hand, we would like to have - I don't know if the term is the best - a better judiciary because we all find that there are some shortcomings, that there are certain problems, that there are delays, that are constantly occurring, that the backlogs change only if we delete something or change some system, that then due to administrative matters it is less relevant and similar, less backlogs, and otherwise it doesn't work. And I would ask, what works well, as we've already heard today, that this works so fantasticly that it doesn't make sense to change. What's going on? Maybe a choice - I don't know, no problems. That's right, but the final score. This one's important. That's what people are asking, people are wondering when I'm going to get a decision on some matter that I need, which is important to me. Either I get it in real time, or I get it in ten years, or I don't get it in ten years, or I'm going to change the law during that time, and it's going to be nothing, and I can wipe myself. That's how people judge what's good. That's what you say. The question is, if it works well. And now, let's move on. If that worked so well, why do we have such problems in court? I'm not saying it'll solve it, but it's easy, I don't know, one step up to the tenth floor. There's probably no baton to say, yeah, we're going to swing this a little bit, but now the judiciary is going to be "sneezing" and there's not going to be any more problems. No, it won't, but we'll probably have to work hard to build -- different measures, different approaches, different solutions, a little bit more time. Then we will probably have - and obviously, if everything has been decided by the profession so far, we have such problems, then the question is whether this profession is okay with it. Although I'm not asking myself yet, but don't tell me that everything has been fine so far, when everything has been determined, but now it will be politics, and now everything will be wrong. But we have a bunch of problems, a bunch of problems in court, and we probably all agree on that. Of course, we do have different views of salvation. And the fact that it was a judicial council, if it had a larger set, if it had good candidates, that it had determined only three, that it was harmful for the quality of the staffing. No one's gonna convince me this isn't going to work. On the other hand, the question is whether there were four, five or six candidates, how the Council of Justice was, and on the basis of what criteria, it decided exactly three. Yeah, obviously, professional - I don't know if they could have been just professional if they had to be eliminated. If everyone met the conditions, he had to give three. And then I wonder if this is equality before the law, if everyone had conditions, they all had conditions, and one of them fell out automatically. I don't know what the criteria are. Well, you fell off. You had the conditions. And now, if we look at this from another point of view, I don't know, mathematics won't give you the right to make every call, but no matter how many apply, there were always three of them that could go forward. But you said yourself that there could have been more candidates who had met the conditions. Then something will not and mathematics is still right that it is already theoretically possible that there must be more candidates who meet these conditions. And now the question is, by what criteria did the members of the judicial council have the honor of evading only three of them. And what honor, by what honor, were those who still had the conditions not among the first three. What honor has now overtaken them? I don't know on what basis. So, something's wrong. And the next. You know, if I'm lucky to have conditions when I run, I'm always fourth. I'm always lucky to be fourth. I was on the first call, and I had conditions, and I was on the second one, and I had conditions. I had conditions. If not, it is necessary to change the conditions for them to be sharper. And on the third, I had this honor, and I was fourth or maybe even fifth, but unfortunately, I had conditions, and I was expelled. I don't even have a theoretical chance of getting into this courtroom. Not theoretically. After this change, if I am satisfied with the conditions, but the conditions do not change. They can change, then it's different. That's not what I'm talking about. But under such conditions, I have at least the theoretical possibilities as a fourth or fifth candidate to theoretically get to, I don't know, on any key, it could be luck, it could be that the minister might have slept well, and he made up his mind for me. I have a theoretical option. I never have those criteria. Now I ask you, Am I equal? Am I equal in marriage? I don't. Yeah, well, then the criteria have to be changed. The sharper, the more working days or, I don't know, I've been waiting for a long time to come to the trial instead of seven years, after 10 years, that's a positive criterion, so I'm going to come between the three. I don't know, something has to be changed, because otherwise I can't imagine. I think such a change introduces more equality before the law. Then the criteria of the judicial council were strange that so many people could meet the conditions, but they had no chance of coming forward. Now that was a serious part, and now a little bit of a joke. When we heard earlier, why are we surprised that we do not understand that some things can happen this way and we have heard that we have a lack of knowledge? Yeah, we can, but you know, then I'm sorry in the same tone. As I have received from my ears, I will also give through my mouth that I still have the feeling that in my previous term I have heard that one party is a smart customer and I have the feeling that this is still going on in this mandate. But I already said that, it was more of a joke than it really was. But we heard that, and I answered in the same tone, and I hope I won't have to apologize to anyone, because I can defend myself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u180	Thank you very much. Mr Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u181	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues. When we have minimal in front of us, I would say that cosmetic changes to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts have come across incomprehensible resistance to any positive change that could contribute to the organisation of the courts. The resistance to any change is also defended by an argument that we are once again changing something that works well, as Mr Pavliha said. In this case, I would say that, as Mr Gantar wondered, what kind of IQ is prescribed by the Secretary of State, I wonder what IQ or what people think of those who say something that works perfectly. Do they so greatly underestimate the Slovenian public, the people, their opinions on the functioning of the courts? This is a re-inflicted insult for people to take part in the argument that something that works perfectly is changing. I regret to say that I also do not understand the Council of Justice in certain recent decisions. It defends inviolability for all its views and is not for any argument. Incomprehensible to me is this a front opposition, which is present in this, although we all know that there must be progress in the organisation of the courts. This is not an interference with the autonomy of the trial and the judges. It seems incomprehensible to me, as I pointed out yesterday, even the last two decisions of the Council of Justice, which have taken a position of complete inviolability in the event of legally proposed and prescribed control over certain judges. And, see, there are also two parties here who, in some ways, continue the tradition of the former regime and their attitude towards the trial. Those who today talk most about political interference with the judiciary have in the past, many of them, supported political intervention in the judiciary. At that time, the judges received a letter from the arraignment or a committee of the day to close the case. We all know that's what happened. And some of those are the loudest today. Look, I understand that, I politically understand that you're defending this as a bastille, as a fortress to protect the privileges of the earlier regime's pillars. We know that there are many things in the courts - I must say this - and some still have a privileged relationship, which is actually seen through judgements. It's an interesting symbol. Today is July 14th, the fall of the barbecue. You literally characterize the Court as a bastille of the preservation of privileges, as well as RTV. These are two fortresses through which [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u182	Mr. Jerovšek, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u183	Yeah, I'm just saying! I'm just saying!
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u184	I know. I'd just like to remind you. The debate is on Article 6 [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u185	No, no, you have no right to do that! Everyone had this opportunity to argue, and I too have the right to argue. [[Back-up advertising.]] No, I'm defending the garden, defending the garden and the positive acquisitions of the barbecue.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u186	Please! Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u187	Yeah, just you and your barbecues. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u188	Please, peace in the hall! I only gave my word to Mr Jerovsk. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u189	And even so far it goes that Mr. Potsch referred to "the legal profession". The Ministry, Mr. Minister, the lawyers who sit here, who are respected lawyers, aren't the legal profession, are they? Yeah, that was subtonia and intonation - the legal profession is consistent against. I regret that, for example, in choosing judges sometimes political criteria, but one of the candidates was never successful at that time, even though he was a better-quality lawyer. I'm sorry. I will not support all this amendment. This amendment or this Article 6 does not provide for a new call for the Presidents of the Courts. All those who have applied have the right to run. And the Minister wants him to be able to sign the decisions or, as it is called, the election of the Presidents and Vice-Presidents of the Courts in accordance with the same criteria and procedures throughout the entire mandate. The fact is, there will be a lot more to be done in the area of judging and judging. I absolutely do not stand up for myself, and I will never stand up for any way in which the judges are subject to autonomy in the trial. But it's not autonomy, you're explaining that no one should interfere with the organization, in the ability to judge how the courts approach the trial. The fact is that there is still exceptional selectivity at work in the expediency of the commencement of judicial proceedings and in the trial within a reasonable time. This is about big differences. For example, the ex-Messenger of Praise has been sentenced on an expeditionary basis. Many similar cases, when people in court are different political colors, about the same matters, have not yet been initiated. There's a lot more wrong here. There are some procedures which may contribute positively to the elimination of such practices, which do not guarantee a trial within a reasonable time period which does not guarantee the full equality of people before a court. Such a change must certainly be supported and, therefore, I will not support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u190	Mr. Potch has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u191	Thank you very much. I agree with Mr Jerovsk in the work in which he is convinced that public opinion on the judiciary is poor, in many ways justified, and that changes are necessary in this regard. If Mr Jerovšek had listened to me, I would have said that in the end, too, that if the objective of the Minister, which he did not hope to say, was to ensure a greater impact on justice by solving problems without politicisation, that I would understand this and that I would send all the specific complaints I receive from now on to the Minister to answer people, how these problems would be solved. That's right. Mr Jerovšek, as far as everything that has happened sometimes is concerned, I would not want to be too personal, only we both know, the belief that I was my friend in my time with your grace, which was also the supreme judge in the times of hard communism. Do not shake the flossules that may have been in force in 1945, in 1980 and 1990 by no means. Now there's another joke. Unfortunately, Mr. Petan is not here. I thought he was joking not only at the end, but at the end of his debate, because that was how it could be understood. But between you, gentlemen, make a difference. Think about it or think it's meant to change something or nothing. If he doesn't have one, then I don't know why the marriage is ready. Mr Kovacic has made it very clear what the goal is. He said what was true that the role of the judicial council should be reduced. And look, those who claim that we are misleading the public, Mr Marolt, Mrs Kuclerov, read what is written in the explanatory memorandum to Article 1. I didn't make it up. That is what the minister or government wrote. Since the Presidents of the courts are responsible for judicial matters, it is precisely so important that the Minister of Justice has a greater choice. Is that a change? Listen, I'm not saying anything about this, I just don't think it's good. And that's my opinion. You claim, but don't say it's good, but it doesn't say it. That's not true, it says. You're not telling the truth. You want a greater influence and a greater chance of a minister. Okay. Tell me that's what you want, why. But the minister's role and the ministers' influence is political. Minister Sturm is a respected constitutional judge and professor, but he is now carrying out a political task. And this moment his function is not a constitutional judge or a professor of law, but he is a minister. And as a minister he's a politician, and he has deep and broad and respectful knowledge, but he's a minister and he's a politician. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] And we say it's bad. [[...]] That's all we want to say and nothing more. But you want a big political influence. Just don't say you don't want it. You want it.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u192	Thank you. Mrs. Kucleva, you have a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u193	And also a debate. I agree, and I am pleased that you have read what has been written on the government in explanation, so that the minister will have a greater choice. He will also be able to decide and decide, possibly between the fourth and fifth candidates, who had to be voted out by the Council of Justice in the first selection process because he did not have the opportunity to choose and propose more than three among the candidates applied for. So far and as he will be able to propose fewer, only after the new, if we adopt the law today, and I am sure that we will, he will also propose more than three. And here's the bigger choice. In the second round, before the election, in front of the minister, someone who had previously had to be eliminated because of this number limit will come to the appointment. However, it must be stressed that the professional criteria prescribed for this important function do not change, Mr Potrč, goodbye - and remain the same. So I see no reason for your argument why the Minister's intervention here is higher. About the amendment. We will not support it in the parliamentary group because we believe it does not interfere with existing procedures. The law will also continue to rule on the judicial council and decide whether to propose three or perhaps an additional one. According to the information provided by the President of the Hauptman Judicial Council, two proceedings were to be opened at this time. Although I do not know how many candidates have been applied for and how many have been made available for election, the powers of the judiciary will not change here either. The Council of Justice will still be able to insist on its decision so far and choose those candidates which it has chosen so far, or it will be possible for it to propose another one. Therefore, we do not see that the proposed amendments would interfere with the procedures already under way, as has been said, I think these are two processes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u194	Thank you very much. Mr. Rezman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u195	Thank you. Now I don't know if the point is to be very angry in words, but I do have to ask: Who licensed Mr. Kovacic to treat people with stupidity? Who put him on the stand so he can say that some kind of a figure of speech is pretty stupid? And that I'm going to show that maybe he's wrong about it, I'm going to read something in a piece that I didn't write. It's about the mailman. It says here: In line with the proposal proposed by the government, the Council of Justice will have to submit all applications to the Minister. That's what I was talking about when I was talking about being basically a postman's job, with a parable. But under that, Mr. Marolt and Mr. Secretary signed. What are they, fools?? And later, when they were warned from the legislature that this was contradictory, they also suggested that this should be withdrawn. And that's fixed now. It's gone now. And if Mr Kovačič has not read this, it is not lawful for others who have read to compare with fools. That's the first thing I wanted to say. Another time. When someone talks about how large a number of experts we have and mentions students, they seem to have forgotten that we're talking about the presidents of the courts. What are the students going to do for the presidents of the courts if they're comprehensible? They'll just have to be compatible, and that'll be enough. The next thing I have to say, because I would feel bad if I didn't do it, is that I don't agree with the fact that quality will be higher if the Minister is able to choose among more candidates, even one that the judiciary has not considered to be the best. Who makes it possible for him to choose among the ten who might be on the ninth page of the judicial council? There was no chance of that now. And that's not diminishing the powers of the minister. That's actually an increase. As we said, this is likely to be the case, as the law will be adopted with certain assistance. However, it is necessary to acknowledge what this law says and what it says. And if someone doesn't understand it, then he can't take the others. He'd better ask, and let's explain it to him.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u196	Thank you very much. Mrs. Bebler has the floor. Please. It's a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u197	Thank you very much. I don't think your performance, Mr. Rezman, was fair. I haven't considered anyone stupid, but I've said it's a claim that the role of the judiciary is only reduced to the role of the postman, that it's stupid, because that's not the case. If all applications are sent to the Minister, this is the marginal function of the Council of Justice. The main function of the Council of Justice is to select and propose to the Minister those whom he considers to be fulfilling all the conditions and who are qualified for this work. That's his proper function. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u198	Thank you very much. A replica of the replica? It's not working. Mrs. Bebler has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u199	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Although I would not have answered because what was already important in this debate was already said and also in the performances of representatives of individual groups of Members, some things were still hanging in the air. And if any of us here knows something in detail about some things, it would actually be wrong for us to keep quiet, and then create an impression that we don't know that some things have been said here that are actually professionally and politically completely depressed. For example, it was emphasized that it could not be just the judicial world of those who played a role in the selection process. I would like to remind you here that the key role of the judiciary is to carry out selection in the first place. In fact, if you are reading the Constitution, for the first time, we must find that the Council of Justice is the body established by the Constitution, and the Constitution has made it very clear what its role is and how it is made up. The Constitution also told us who loves him and how he loves him. Comparing the status or position of the Council of Justice with the Council of Officials, I'm sorry, but that's something so highly depressed that we can both cry because we're both lawyers. So I don't think I should be able to keep my mouth shut because I think I'm agreeing to such an argument. The Council of Justice is designed as follows: 5 top legal experts, on a proposal from the President of the Republic, elects a national assembly, and 6 members of the Council of Justice are made up of judges who elect from among themselves, but those who already have a permanent function of judge. So, to compare this to some official council, I'm sorry, it's completely depressed. Moreover, Mr Kovacic said that the judiciary is not from God-given institution and given forever. I told you how it was given, and Mr Pavliha told you earlier that he has a term of five years. And in my own way, I am pleased that there have been some very free debates here. So much so that I was convinced that I understood, understood, the purpose and purpose of these changes of this law. In particular, Mr Kokalj spoke about the Minister for Justice's political judgement. Of course, we know that he is a political function, but you know when it comes to the political interference of the representative of the executive branch of the judiciary, and then we must be aware that these matters are very dangerous, that they should be used only in droplets, really only in droplets. And that's why we have an established system of "checks and balances" to make a brake and balance so that there is no exaggeration. And like my colleague Paula Gantar said, it's a certain direction, a certain trend in law change. Each opens only one small window and steps in a direction. But the direction is very bad. Which is why I'm saying we've warned you in time what you're getting yourself into. We will oppose this, but responsibility, ladies and gentlemen, will be clear on your part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u200	Thank you very much. Sir, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u201	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to try to simplify my point of view from another Bohemian point of view by simply objecting to this amendment or supporting the wording of Article 7. The programmers in the simplest sense of coding would understand this - if I understood correctly the explanation that I received here from the neighbours - when we speak from the three possible candidates proposed by the judiciary to one of the possible proposed ones, one is the number of qualified persons who are recognized by the Council of Justice and then transmits this list to the Minister to select between those qualified persons whom the Council of Justice excludes or recognizes to them the ability to select the most suitable candidate for him, so that he and the Ministry of Justice, that government and that country, and the judiciary, will do the best they can. We use the term CISS, "keep it simple and stupid", "stopid" is added sometimes. And usually a very complex program consists of simple steps. Here, however, we are working from a simple change to a complicated and long debate on matters. If I understand correctly, we're talking about this change from three to one, but one is the number of qualified. If I took a more constructive look at the matter, I would say that this extends civil rights to all, both candidates, the Council of Justice and the Minister. On the other hand, the minister's responsibility is significantly greater because he receives a wider selection of qualified. The issue of selection is significantly greater because, during the larger number of candidates who are qualified, everyone has some additional skills, which should also decide how the Minister will decide, and his responsibility is significantly greater. For if he chooses someone but not another, who has different references and other qualities in addition to competence, it exposes one or another to judgment. And the problem of decision-making is significantly greater. Remember, sometimes we could only get fiches, but now we can get a lot of different vehicles that have all four wheels, a motor, and just those basic elements that also have fiche. So it bothers me in particular that one kind of character here in a great and beautiful way uses and prefers top legal scientists, lists magazines and thus tries to make a big and difficult debate out of a simple matter. I don't understand it at all. And here we have spent a lot of time on this simple matter, which is logical from my point of view and we should support it in any case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u202	Thank you very much. Mr. Gantar, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u203	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I am speaking again because I think it is important that we hold this substantive debate. As for me and my knowledge of this issue, it seems to me that these masks have fallen and that the relationship is clear. It is a matter of whether or not we agree that the difficulty in electing the Presidents of the Courts is transferred more to the Minister and not so much to the Judicial Council. This weight is in a way, not entirely, but partly passed on to the judiciary, and it is by procedural rules, not by substantive rules, which is of course even more important. The position agrees, me and most of the opposition, most of them, not all, we disagree. We also said the reasons. I have to say, I find this really controversial. I find it contentious, as has already been said before, that the equating of selection processes in the official world and in the judicial world. This is a completely unacceptable comparison. It is the choice of officials in another branch of government and, if this branch of power, administrative and government, the choice then also of senior officials in the judicial branch of government, of course, this is quite wrong. We know clearly, and in the Civil Service Act, you also said that senior officials have political compatibility, all four years from now. If this is how you secretly bring political compatibility into the appointment of the Presidents of the Courts, I think that at least this intention could be clearly revealed that you are involved in such courts, not in other cases. That is why, once again, I think, a comparison of the official council, which is professional assistance in the final selection of a minister or government, with the judicial council, legally and in terms of the division of power, is totally unacceptable. Of course, this is exactly what my colleague Petan said: he was fourth in the first election, he was fourth in the second call and he did not become president, he was third or fifth and could not become President. But now it would be different, with the current invitation to tender, it will be possible for the fifth and the sixth to become the first one, because the Minister will decide to do so. And that's what this difference is about, it's important, it's still small, but it's a very important difference that shows the direction of things. Once again, although it's not a colleague who talked about it here, sometimes I get a little unloved, I don't want to show it too much when I see how many heroes we have in this room. Some of their heroism in the fight against communism, totalitarian states and socialism are trying to prove that they may have ever paid a penalty for a traffic offence. I have to say, I look back at the hall and I don't remember any faces from the '80s, but only in the '70s. And I have to say this not only in this debate now, but also in the case of someone who attacked one of the most important civil movement activists of the 1970s, the 1980s, who had previously sat where the Secretary of State is sitting today. It is not about who has the credit here or now, who has been or now we are discussing in the current situation. [[...]] But please don't brag too much about the things that others did for you and you weren't there, and then you came along. It's no big deal, if that's the case, but it's a matter of choice for everyone, and no one else should be privileged or deprived in one way or another. But don't talk about these things without need and in the way you do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u204	Thank you very much. Mr Ljublješek has the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u205	Thank you for your word. A well-respected council, a respected representative of the government! It is interesting to listen to colleagues and colleagues of lawyers in this house when they discuss a small change, in my opinion, a small change in the law and how uneven they are. I believe that the legal science of this small change will have a long debate. As an inequitable person, I see this change in the law from my point of view, with the aim of increasing the effectiveness of the judiciary with this change, because we know what the state and the degree to which this judiciary is lagging behind. Any change that goes in this direction will always be my pleasure. I'm not going to repeat everything that's been said before. But I would like to highlight the following. Notwithstanding the fact that only a minor modification of this existing regime is proposed, some colleagues and colleagues from LDS and SD, as always in this mandate, strongly oppose the already known justifications that have become a daily standing: that this is a politicisation in this case, I quote, 'an unacceptable way to increase judicial politicisation'. Or another quote, "that these are changes to the attack on an independent judiciary and the interference of one branch of power in another". I can't agree with that. It is, therefore, that, of all the candidates elected by the Council of Justice, the Presidents of the Courts are appointed to be persons who will be able to lead, with their high expertise, leadership and innovation skills, courts that will be able to reduce the backlogs and problems of the judiciary. Here is something that I have been paying attention to on the work body, when representatives of the Judicial Council said that in their proposals for the Presidents of the Courts they only take into account the professional criteria, the quality of work and the scope of work, and not the leadership skills. However, the President shall have all the powers and responsibilities for the administration of the court. Therefore, it must have managerial knowledge, managerial and organisational skills; it must ensure that the court works in accordance with law and court order, that trials in court are carried out quickly and efficiently, so that it takes care of the work, the successful work of the whole court. As has been heard, the court order, which deals more closely with the court's operations, was amended and supplemented in 2004 for the eleventh time. But the law has changed twice in the last five years. No one gives me the right to doubt that all these changes and additions were professional and non-political, in favour of a better part of the courts. Therefore, it is extremely unfair to claim from some opposition colleagues that the change at the time is political. As I am sure that these minor changes in the existing regime will also help to improve the work of the courts, I will support the amendment of the law and the amendment of the Law on Courts. However, I will not support the proposed amendment, which discriminates against the ousted equivalent candidates in the initial and incomplete procedures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u206	Thank you very much. Mr Sok is next.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u207	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Fellow Members and Members! Dear representatives of the Ministry, Secretary! Since Mr Kokalja, a fellow Member of Parliament, is not here, I must protect him as the leader of the Group of Members and act in his place, because the discussion by my colleague Kokalja seemed extremely reasoned. Bebler's colleague took advantage of it and abused it a little. She said that Mrs Kokalj, a fellow Member of Parliament, said that the Minister was politically judging. No, he didn't say that, and you can go look at the magnetogram. He said that it is already in the current regulation that, at the end of the three candidates proposed by the Judicial Council, the Minister judges. And since the Minister is a political person, such a decision can then be considered a political decision. And this proposal goes in this direction, that somehow the Council of Justice is burdened by political judgements and that the Council of Justice may also propose to the Minister more than three candidates. Because, at the end of the three proposals, the Minister chooses. If we were to listen to one another and, above all, have a little more respect for one another in this national assembly, we would not, of course, encourage one another and show one another what one has said. And all of our decisions that we make are political. Of course, the profession can propose many things to us, but in the end, respected colleagues, we make a decision. And since we are politicians, this decision is also political. That is how I understand the functioning of the National Assembly or Parliament. It was also said, of course, that responsibility rests with you. That's what this is about. The coalition that won the elections has also taken responsibility for correcting what is not good in this country. And the situation in Slovenian courts is not good, and we all agree. My colleague Potrč also said he was in agreement. Something has to be done in this direction. We could all read the opinion and the record of the German judge hired by the previous government, Mr Dukoff, what he finally learned after two years of work, what he told us, what was wrong with what was wrong with our judicial system. I'm not an expert in court, I'm not a lawyer, but I'm an occasional user, mostly as a client when someone sues me in court. And since I've been in active politics, I've almost always been slow in front of the judiciary. Interestingly, in 13 years I have never been convicted, nor forgiven, but that all the charges against me have so far become obsolete. I'm back in the process right now. For once, I want to see if I'm guilty or innocent. The worst thing I think is, it's funny, the worst thing I think is that things are simply put in a drawer and then after a certain period of time, the state pays the budget costs and we're done. It's out of date. If the Minister and the team, if this ruling coalition manages to move these matters in the field of justice, then your fellow Members and colleagues, I say that we have done a great deal. For the law is set aside, in effect the right is denied. And unfortunately, in our country, these unfinished court stories are amassing themselves. For the judicial system, we spend a lot of money, but citizens and citizens, of course, assess work increasingly and I think that with this amendment that you have proposed and where you somehow insist that everything stays the way it was, in fact, you do not do yourself a great service in the Slovenian public. Let us, however, allow the new government to make a proposal and a solution as it has imagined, not to attack any change with all possible cannons, but to use some heroic illustrations and similar ones. This is not appropriate, of course, but as the opposition, you have the legitimate and legal right to do so, and the coalition will, of course, eventually take the solution as it deems appropriate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u208	Thank you very much. However, I would ask that we try to discuss the amendment to Article 6 more closely and less about the situation of the judiciary. That's probably what we're talking about. For the time being, there are two other debaters, or three. Mrs. Kucler Dolinar has the floor. Then get ready, Mr. Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u209	Thank you very much. So we revolve around the jurisdiction of the judicial world all the time. The Council of Justice shall elect a candidate on the basis of Article 29 of the Judicial Service Act, which shall elect candidates for the Presidents of the Courts. These criteria are as follows: professional knowledge, working ability, ability to resolve legal issues, protection of the reputation of a judge and of the court, ability to express verbally and in writing, additional work done, attitude towards co-workers in the performance of judicial work, ability to carry out the functions of a management post, if the judge is appointed to such a place. I wonder for myself how some of you can label an authority with such important powers as a mailbox. Whether or not they choose to be offended, the judicial world, will decide for themselves. I'm sure they won't need a legal representative here. So I would just like to conclude that we fully support the law, but we do not support the proposed amendment of the SD Group of Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u210	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Rezman to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u211	Thank you very much again. Very briefly. I'm only going to comment on three more things. First, some are clear that they are not for any change. That's what others used to say. At least I can say that a few hours ago, when I initially presented my position, I listed first what changes we made, explicitly for the individual changes we support. Of course, we are not all to support everything in one piece. Well, it was also pointed out - that there are also things with which they do not show themselves to be in advance and to agree smoothly. So we are for change, but for thoughtful changes that will have such consequences that we can then all be satisfied with these consequences, or at least in large part satisfied. Second of all, this post office can't stop. Let me say that what some want to show as virtual arguments does not count. Let me say that no one has ever talked about restricting the judiciary to the postman. The point was that if there were no changes and, as stated in recital 6 above, this function would be reduced to postage. It was said to be a parable. And that, indeed, has been confirmed by the Secretary of State, and this is in our papers. So that this reduction to the post office was overlooked and corrected. And the third word is called holy forgiveness. Now, all of a sudden, everyone started to say that it was simple. And the world of justice deals with it long and wide, intellectuals themselves! And the judiciary is dealing with it, the highly educated people themselves, but they don't think it's that simple. And here we are doing business, and some say that they don't understand, others say that they don't understand, and I'm afraid that's simple. There's a whole bunch of lawyers here, university-graduate lawyers who should understand that, and they don't understand it again. And the rest of us who are from another profession don't understand. Yeah, well, then who else understands that?Oh, my God! You know, it's just proof that things aren't that simple. A few words don't mean mere simplicity. One word alone can be so complicated that for the rest of our lives we will not save it - peace, let's say, happiness, if we understand it as a term, not just as a vessel for some content.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u212	I'm asking for peace in the hall. Mr Kokalj has also entered the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u213	Thank you very much. I would like to use these few seconds to comment on the Council's reactions on this issue. I have to say, I'm a little worried about how the judiciary has reacted from a professional point of view. I must say, I have experienced this reaction entirely politically. In view of the fact that the Council of Justice should provide through these criteria, according to my assessment, also the ability to manage, manage the court, and according to the criteria that the colleague has read, this is not guaranteed, it is all the more necessary for the Minister to obtain as wide a range of candidates as possible, so that he can choose as successfully as possible from the candidates who meet the criteria that the Council of Justice is considering, including this component. I think that's just the reason the law is proposed.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u214	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to discuss the amendment to Article 6? If not, I'm closing the debate. Thank you very much! The amendment will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the half-hour vote after the end of the 15th item of the agenda or at the latest at 21.10 a.m. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 11. At the end of the day, it's an effigy of the law on the state council's amendments to the end-of-the-term procedure. The total time of the debate is 46 minutes. The bill was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and I invite Secretary of State of Marolt to submit, I apologize, Minister Virant is on his way. I apologize and, of course, I also welcome the representative. Hello, Minister, and I give you my word.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u215	I return my greetings, Mr Vice-President, Members and Members of Parliament. The content of the law before you can be covered in one sentence: All members of the Council of State, including the Vice-Presidents and the President, will perform their functions informally. Why this marriage is necessary at all. Later on, I will say that I actually regret that this law is necessary and that these issues could be settled by the Council of State. Allow me a brief history. In 1992, the Act on the Council of State was adopted, which provided in Article 62 that the function of a member of the Council of State is honorable and that members of the Council of State receive a certain amount of compensation for the performance of their duties. This provision is clear if the function is honorable and if members receive a certain compensation, this means that the function cannot be professional. However, by virtue of Rule 100 of its Rules of Procedure, the Council of State provided that the President shall act professionally and, of course, shall also begin and continue this practice of professional performance. The annual budget, which was adopted by the National Assembly, has also included in the State Council’s headings funds for the remuneration of the President of the State Council. In February 2003, the Court of Auditors drew attention to this problem, or the question of professional performance as President of the Council of State, or the issue of dispute over his salary. Following this warning, the Council of State proposed to the National Assembly the amendment of the Law on the State Council, but in terms of professionalisation, i.e. the legal basis for professional performance. The National Assembly refused to do so. At that time, the Council of State should break this practice, illegal practice, and amend the 100th Article of its Rules of Procedure and not do so. The practice continued. That's why the government had to make the move that she's made now. First, in the budget's rebalancing for this year, it has deleted funds for the salary of the President of the Council of State and has simultaneously prepared and submitted the law that is before you today. I regret that this law is necessary. The Council of State could settle this issue on its own and save us time and work and also resolve the matter in a dignified manner, without interference or without intervention by the Government and the National Assembly. But this change is necessary. This change is necessary because, as is sometimes stated in the public, especially in the state world, the government would wage some kind of war against the state world or that the minister would wage some kind of war against the state world. This is not a war against the state world, but it is a battle for legality and equality before the law. We all have to respect the laws. If the state institution does not respect the law, if it interprets it using some kind of legal acrobatics to its advantage, this is a very bad message to citizens. We rightly expect citizens from national authorities to consistently implement, apply laws, not only when they are used to decide on citizens' rights and obligations, but also when they decide on their rights and obligations. And that's the essence of this short marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u216	Thank you very much, Minister Dr. Virant. The draft law was also addressed by the Home Committee, the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice. I ask the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Kucler Dolinar, to present the report.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u217	Thank you very much. Welcome to this point! Mr. Minister, the President and all present! At its 9th session, the Committee of the National Assembly for Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice discussed the proposal for a law supplementing the law on the State Council. The representative of the applicant presented, in addition to his explanation, the reasons for the adoption of the law and the objectives, principles and main solutions presented by the amendments to the law. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service explained that the legislative and legal service did not find it either in the constitution or in the system laid down by the applicable law, the support for professionalisation and the related decision and the determination of the salary of the President of the State Council. The opinion was also forwarded by the Commission of the State Council, which, in its opinion, considers that the abolition of the professional function of the President of the Council of State would result in the quality of the work of the State Council and its constitutional powers, and therefore the State Council does not support the bill. In the debate, members and members of the committee supported the intention of the draft law to define precisely the non-professionalness of the exercise of the presidency of the Council of State. While this issue has been settled so far, the different interpretations on this point have led to a more specific definition, as presented by the amendment of the law. It is certainly necessary to remedy the illegal situation in this area, as it took too long to comply with the law. The fact is that the President of the Council of State is elected by the members of the Council of State and his function is honorable. In addition, some concerns were raised that the President of the Council of State did not know at the time of his term of office that the question of the exercise of the presidency of the Council of State would be settled in this way. However, the representative of the proposer explained that, by disregarding the law in the State Council, there was too much delay and it was also necessary to supplement the law in force with a provision which made it clear that the function of the President and the Vice-President was honorable and unprofessional. Since no amendments were tabled to the bill, the Committee also did not adopt any amendments, the Committee voted only on all articles of the bill together and adopted them without a vote against them.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u218	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. For the speaking stage, I invite Ambassador Darjo Lavtišar Bebler to present the position of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u219	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. A respected choir! I must admit that our Group of Members is somehow in this law again in one way. If we wanted to define the status of the State Council in a constitutional way, the most accurate definition of this State Council would be that of the imperfect second home of the Republic of Slovenia. We therefore understand in the LDS those proposals which tend to lead to the end-stage abolition of the State Council, but, of course, in accordance with the normal procedure for amending the Constitution. If the founder had reached the necessary agreement of two-thirds of the members of the National Council for the abolition of the State Council, that would have been entirely correct. Thus, by the fact that the State Council has its place in our constitution, while it already has a certain type of powers under the Constitution, it seems to us that the prohibition of the professional exercise of the presidency of the State Council is at the very least controversial in the middle of the mandate. Let me just add here that in normal, democratic, civilized countries, such changes are accepted for a mandate that is yet to come, not in the middle of an ongoing mandate. We are aware that a concrete proposal from the government may be very attractive to people, as the President of the Council of State is after taking up his salary. At the same time, we wonder whether a 40-member constitutionally defined and constitutionally defined powers can be effectively and qualitatively presided over without the President being able to perform this function in a normal full-time manner. In our view, this is very difficult to accept very quickly. Again, I would like to point out that this is a quick one again, and you will say a very simple change. But that's what we're getting into in this National Assembly. However, we have not received, say, an answer to whether we will then be the only European country that will have a second home, otherwise truly imperfect, but it will be chaired by someone who will perform this function unprofessionally by the way, let's say honorablely, but in his spare time or something. Therefore, it is very difficult to support such a change in the LDS House of Members and we have decided to vote on our own convictions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u220	Thank you very much. The position of the Social Democrats' Group of Members will be presented by Mr Miran Potrč.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u221	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! Members and Members of the Social Democrats will support the Government's proposal to establish in the State Council Act that the office of President and Vice-President of the Council of State is honorable. We are convinced that such a solution is not only consistent with the Constitution but is also useful for regulating the situation of the State Council. Once this issue is resolved, the unnecessary debate will stop only on this issue, which has been present for several months now, and the Council of State will be able to devote more than in the added circumstances to the realization of its constitutional role and responsibility. In the Social Democrats Group, we do not want this issue to be regulated in any way in terms of the rights enjoyed by the current civil society officials. The State Council, the government and the National Assembly have been conscious, either because of a lack of attention or because of different views on this issue. However, when this issue has been exacerbated in part by the inadequate conduct of the State Council in deciding on the immunity of their councillor, we cannot leave this issue unregulated and allow for a disputed situation. We could only decide that it is possible to perform professionally or not. One decision is necessary. Anything else would be irresponsible and harmful. The High State and Constitutionally Certain Authority may not have an irregular situation and cannot be given public attention for months solely because of the contested remuneration of its officials or because of disputed decisions on immunity. At the same time, we have the decisions of the Constitutional Court, the Court of Auditors, the decisions of this National Assembly when we have not taken professionalisation, as proposed by the Council of State, and we believe that matters will be settled through the adoption of the proposed law. However, as long as the state councilors feel that the content of the law is contrary to the Constitution, I am not excluding it, they will be able to exercise their interest before the Constitutional Court. Finally, I would like the regulation of this issue to help deal with two more issues. Firstly, relations between the National Assembly and the Council of State, both in terms of cooperation in the legislative process, in international relations and in the representation of the interests of the State in the European Union, as well as in the exercise of other constitutional powers of the State Council, such as legislative initiative, the legislative veto, the requirement for a constitutional review and a request for a referendum. The deliberate and well-reasoned use of these institutions, rather than giving too much attention to organising public presentations of views, will certainly bring back some of the lost reputation to the state council. And a second time. To contribute to a serious and responsible assessment of whether constitutional changes in the situation and rights and powers of the State Council are really necessary. If we feel that way, we should take the necessary steps. If, after careful consideration, we find that this would not be good, let us stop discussing this. The current state of uncertainty does not benefit any of the institutions, nor does it benefit from the implementation of the Constitution and the functioning of parliamentary democracy in Slovenia. I would also like to see so well-intentioned and principled, not political or ugliness, the activity of Members of Parliament and Members of the Social Democrats on this issue so far. If we all think and do so, we will contribute to the better functioning of our constitutional system. And now I am half joking: see how we agree with the government and how constructive the opposition is, even with our colleagues, lawyers and lawyers in the coalition we agree. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u222	Thank you very much. The position of New Slovenia will be presented by Mr Drago Koren.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u223	Thank you for your word. Mr President, Mr Minister, Members and Members of Parliament! In the Parliamentary Group of the New Slovenia-Christian People's Party, we will support the proposed law on the amendments to the law on the State Council, although we believe it is unnecessary, since matters are already sufficiently clearly regulated in the existing law. The Constitution already explicitly provides for the award of members of the National Assembly, while it does not provide for the award or the award of the State Council. The State Council Act provides for the honorable performance of the functions of the members of the State Council. Since the President of the Council of State is also a member of the Council, it is not lawful to pay him, but rather to compensate him for his lost earnings for the duration of his office and the right to reimbursement of the costs related to the performance of his office. The Rules of Procedure of the Council of State, which was adopted by the Council of State itself, did the same thing, but laid down in Article 100 that the President shall act professionally. In its report, the Court of Auditors drew attention to the controversy in the professional exercise of the presidential function. The Council of State must amend its rules of procedure in order to comply with the law, since a state institution cannot afford to violate the principle of legality. The bill now explicitly defines that the functions of the President and the Vice-President are honorable and unprofessional. This means that if this law is adopted, the working relationship with the President of the Council of State will cease. In New Slovenia-Christian People's Party we will support the proposed changes to the law, because we want the principle of legality, which is the foundation of democracy, to be respected everywhere, especially in state institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u224	Thank you very much. Mr Jakob Presečnik has the floor to present the position of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u225	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. All in attendance, all in attendance! The Slovenian People's Party's Group will support the proposed law. Of course, we expect the Council of State to adopt, as soon as possible, the appropriate criteria for compensation for the unprofessional performance of the presidency of the Council of State, as it has been arranged for other state councilors. It is also true that we have repeatedly stressed that we will have to start an appropriate debate on the status of the Council of State. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u226	Thank you very much. Mr Rezman will present the DeSUS position.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u227	Thank you very much. The DeSUS Group will also support the government proposal and there is no prejudice in this regard. The time of controversy on this subject is probably a time of the past. Whether the State Council is doing well or not, whether it is well organised or not, what its purpose is or what is written in the Constitution is being realized or not, this is likely to be a topic that is yet to come to pass and is not the subject of today's debates. The Constitution clearly does not approve, I would say, of such a way of paying wages as is now the case. Nor is there anything in the State Council Act, and the first act to reverse this is the State Council's Rules of Procedure, which in itself is contradictory. Two articles have already been mentioned, one from the beginning of the Rules of Procedure and the other from the 100th paragraph following that. Since, in fact, all those institutions from the Constitutional Court to the Legal Service and the Court of Auditors have rejected what is now happening, it is likely logical that we should all decide to support this law, this proposal that has been proposed, and we should prepare ourselves more thoroughly for more substantive discussions on the State Council in the future, which, of course, will also await us.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u228	Thank you very much. I'm inviting the last one for the stage. Mr Dimitri Kovacic, Commissioner, to present the position of the SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u229	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary, colleagues, colleagues. The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group will support the proposed law on amendments to the State Council Act. In this case, we believe that this is an arrangement that will eliminate the obvious difference in understanding of the law on the State Council, which refers to the status of state councilors and, in particular, the President and Vice-President of the Council of State. We also agree that the text of the State Council Act so far has not allowed the professional performance of the Council's function to members and not to the President or Vice-President. So far, the provision under which a member of the Council of State is honoured and that a member of the Council of State has the right to compensation for lost earnings for the time of the exercise of his office and the right to report on the cost of performing his duties is certainly also of the opinion of the President or Vice-President of the Council of State, since the law did not contain other specific provisions concerning them. Therefore, the statute on the status of a member of the Council of State shall also apply to his or her President and Vice-President. Any other interpretation of this provision actually constitutes an intervention in the content of the law, which, of course, is not admissible, but the practice so far has established the actual situation, so that the presidency of the Council of State has been professionally exercised since the entry into force of the Council of State. Notwithstanding such practice, this actual arrangement did not have a legal basis, which is also reflected in the decision of the 2002 Constitutional Court. In the following year, the Court of Auditors also drew attention to the dispute over the professional function of the President of the Council of State. The Council of State should, after all, react and align its actual situation with the provisions of the law, but it did not want to do so. It would be expected that the harmonisation would be done at least by tying this change to the end of the President's term of office, which expired last month, and by the newly appointed President, irrespective of who, the same or the other, would perform or perform the new term of office in a non-professional manner, in accordance with the provisions of the law. Since all of this has not happened and the Council of State has not itself established a legal situation as it has been legally stipulated so far, the government should act and propose to the National Assembly to supplement the Law on the State Council. And in this addition, it states explicitly and unequivocally, and in the absence of any other explanation, that the office of President and Vice-President of the National Assembly is honorable and unprofessional. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we believe that the proposed law directs the Council of State to immediately implement and implement the provision on the non-professional exercise of the presidency, since it will now not be possible to define this in any other way from the date of its adoption. Therefore, as we say, we will support the proposed law in the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u230	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members, and since no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the proposal for a law, there is no possibility to discuss the articles, so I am concluding it and thus the second reading of the bill. As has been said several times, we will vote in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the assembly, today after the end of the 15th item of the agenda or at 21st and 10 minutes. This concludes this agenda item. Jehovah’s Witnesses, 7 / 1 On the day-to-day basis, this is, firstly, a proposal for a law on the suspension of the Act on the Tax on Payments and on the rate of tax for the summer of 2006. The total time of the debate is 2 hours and 45 minutes. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by a group of Members with first-signed Masters, Milan M. Squikl, and in connection with this law, a group of ten Members with the first-signed, mentioned, requested that the State Assembly hold a general debate. I give the floor to the representative of the proposer for further explanation of the bill, and at the same time I welcome the Minister of Doctor Bajuk. Master Squeakle, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u231	Mr Vice-President, Members and Members of Parliament, Mr Minister, a nice welcome. Thank you for your word. On behalf of the motioners, Members of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, I will present my position on the proposal for a law on the termination of the tax on paid salaries and the tax rate for 2006. The main purpose of the proposed amendments to the pay tax law is to relieve the economy in 2006 and to continue this burden by abolishing the tax in 2007. This is achieved by halving the tax rate on paid wages in 2006 and finally abolishing the tax in 2007. This is based on the official documents of the previous and current government, the Convergence Programme and the completing of the Convergence Programme, where both documents describe that the structural deficit should be reduced. This is also the subject of a draft or, at least, a well-known draft budget memorandum, which the government has been discussing since 7 July and is expected to adopt next week. The government foresees that the nominal budget expenditure framework for 2006 and 2007 should be so high that the deficit would be lower than in 2005. So in 2006 1.4% and in 2007 1.2%. The government has committed itself to reducing the structural deficit and to saving. This means that the reduction of the levy on paid salaries in 2006 and its abolition in 2007 will in no case jeopardise the takeover of the euro, and in particular the consequences of the relief are the possibility of increased economic growth and job retention during the most critical period for the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy. The adoption of the bill is in line with the social agreement for the period 2003-2005 and in line with normal social dialogue with employers and employees. The adoption of the bill would reduce the cost of employers per salary, in all areas of the economy and the economy. In this way, the cost of highly educated labour would be substantially reduced and businesses would encourage the employment of this type of labour force, as it would probably also reduce the black employment of students. The lower costs of employers would relieve the economy and allow for more inflows of domestic and foreign investments. The adoption of the proposal makes it possible to increase the competitiveness of the economy, create a more business-friendly environment, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises, create new jobs, increase economic growth and reduce unemployment. Therefore, the adoption of this law is in line with the adopted strategy for the development of Slovenia to increase employment in line with the objectives of the Lisbon Strategy, as lower costs for employers allow for increased economic efficiency and increased investment in research and technological development. The adoption of this law would also mean the realization of one of the five key development priorities and the adopted strategy for the development of Slovenia, a concern for building a more efficient and cheaper country. The non-acceptance of this bill, however, results in economic growth, job losses and lower public financial revenues. Higher economic growth means higher government revenues and higher economic growth would be ensured by abolishing the tax on paid wages. The basic objective of the law is therefore to legislate solutions that will enable the implementation of this basic economic proposal. It is known that the country has a government revenue of 125 billion gross, but of this 45 billion is within the public sector. Therefore, the financial effects described in the law are feasible, as they would in particular result in an increase in growth in the Slovenian economy. The law should be adopted before September 2005 in order for the government to include effects in the draft budget 2006-2007. I therefore suggest that you support the law in the first reading and by doing so confirm the big words of the Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance, that they relieve the economy. With its negative opinion, the government has already denied this great word in action. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u232	Thank you very much. I give the floor to a representative of the government, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u233	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members and Members! The Group of Members, which submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration a proposal for a law on the termination of the law on pay and a new rate of tax for 2006, is based on the types of current opposition in this National Assembly, are representatives of political parties who have had a key responsibility to lead our country over the 12 years. After 12 years, we hear again the words on competitiveness, on decommissioning, from the same sources that have proposed legislation now in force, which is recognised in all areas as inappropriate for our time and irresponsible action by the previous assembly. The Pay Tax Act was adopted in 1996 and applied on 1 July 1996. The law imposed an obligation on employers or payers to charge and pay taxes on gross wages paid. When the law was in force, unpaid salaries amounted to 90,000 tolars, ranging from 90,000 to 95,000, the tax was charged at the rate of 1%, from 95,000 to 105,000 at the rate of 2%, and so on to the maximum rate of 4%. The law was amended three times later - three times and the tax has always been increased! In 1997, when the rate of taxation changed from 1 July to 110,000, the untaxed part of the amount of wages increased from 10% to 15%. However, the amendment of the Law in 2001, which had been in force since 1 January 2002, reduced the applicable scale by 0,2 percentage points, as the rate of contribution to compulsory health insurance was increased by the same percentage. The last amendment to the Act, which was adopted on 1 September 2004, raised the lower threshold for taxation of salaries to 165,000 tolars, thus reducing the wage burden by 1.9%, i.e. from 43.3% to 41.1%. The last amendment of the law was intended to reduce the costs of employers mainly in labour intensive industries where wages paid are relatively lower than in other activities. As already mentioned and to be reiterated, the abolition of this budgetary resource, as foreseen in the draft law, would result in a significant loss of revenue. In 2004, 113 billion tolars and 1.8% of gross domestic product were realised from this title in the national budget. The 2005 budget provides for 117 billion tolars, almost 118 for which, for the time being, it is not possible to provide for alternative resources in the existing system of public financial revenues and is not foreseen in the draft law. Given the fact that it is the priority of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to ensure the financial macro-economic conditions of ERM 2 and to take over the euro within the envisaged deadline, within the short time limit provided for in the proposal for a law on the termination of the pay tax and the 2006 tax rate, this public financial resource cannot be eliminated. For that reason, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not support the proposal for the termination of the law on taxation of paid wages submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by a group of Members. The options for tax decommissioning the economy are currently being explored in the context of comprehensive tax reform and medium-term budget restructuring. We suggest that this State Assembly does not accept this law. However, the concept of a gradual abolition of this tax is currently being examined by the Ministry of Finance’s professional services. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u234	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The following is a presentation of the views of the members of the groups and, as a speaker, I invite Ambassador Franz Feri Horvat to present the position of the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u235	Thank you for your word. Mr Vice-President, Mr Minister with co-worker, colleague and colleague and other present. The Group of Social Democrats supports the adoption of the proposed law. It's true that he's going to have the tenth anniversary of the second year. He was adopted as some kind of intervention or temporary law, which lasts a long time. It was accepted, as has already been said, to replace part of the reduced contributions. In doing so, not to spill the ashes, but to tell you the truth, in the last few years in the parliamentary group, even when we were in the government coalition, I think that every year we were committed to lowering this tax. This has also happened several times with the amendment of the law. We also tried to get rid of him, but we simply failed or could not get rid of him. However, this does not mean that this law or this tax must continue to be in force, for the situation forces us to change. But we're realists. The fact is, what the proposer said in the introduction and what Mr Minister also said and what the government said is that this tax is a source of budgetary revenue in the fourth place with a very high amount - according to the Government's estimate of 118 billion - and it is therefore clear that it is not possible to abolish it overnight or within one year. Therefore, it seems appropriate that the proposed solution should first be reduced in the coming year and then removed as soon as possible in 2007, as proposed. However, if it actually turns out that this is not possible objectively, at least in the next two or three years. The government in its rejection opinion, and this is rightly confirmed also by Mr Minister a few minutes ago, cites as an argument for maintaining this tax its high level and share in the revenue of the budget. However, it is very important to me, and here I see the possibility and real knowledge of the government that it is not possible to insist on this tax, when the government says, "the tax on paid wages is a heavy burden to pay in labour intensive activities", and if I have correctly understood the Minister, he literally said, I think that tax is so inappropriate. This is also confirmed by one of our most respected experts in the field of the tax system, with rich knowledge and practical experience, when it denotes this tax, I quote as "anomalies that are not compatible with the market economy". The reduction and elimination of this tax require, in particular, unsatisfactory competitiveness in certain activities, the need for greater domestic and foreign investments and the implementation of the development strategy of Slovenia in general. With regard to the Government's main excuse, which is based on the fact that the tax on paid salaries cannot be reduced and abolished due to the large deficit in budget revenue, with a view to being as constructive as possible, not only to criticise or propose something unrealistic, I would also indicate some options to replace the exit that will arise by reducing or abolishing this tax without pretension, whether it is prescriptions or whether it is the only solution. First time. First, there is a need for greater and also by the government and the coalition for the announced savings and reduction in public spending, in particular classical government spending. Another time. There will be a need to restructure the revenue and expenditure of the budget in the 2006 and 2007 budgets. Third time. More inflows into the budget can be ensured through more consistent collection of taxes and also contributions, because we see that contributions are not always sufficiently effective and if there is a deficit in the other two cash registers, then the budget must intervene. Fourth time. As many European Union funds as possible must be acquired and used. Fifth. The right time and opportunity to eliminate the tax on paid wages is several times announced tax reform, if, of course, the government is serious about it. However, the tax reform should be "partial or root" in recent days, because we hear very different, even contradictory opinions on tax reform from the government circles and from the circles of its advisors; but whatever it may be, we should ensure that taxes are restructured and thus also the sources of the budget. Six. A certain reserve is in the property tax, indeed it was already in previous years of speech, but it was never brave enough that taxes other countries, including Slovakia, which we mention quite often as an example or as a good example, would finally have to be introduced. And if ever, then I think that the government must do so - as is the case with every government - because it is an unpopular measure - at the beginning of the mandate. It's a week. The tax reform also "undertakes" a more efficient tax process and a more efficient functioning of the tax service, which will also contribute to greater inflows to the budget. We could still mention it, but after all, it is a matter of government not to let too much go in its powers, responsibilities and, of course, greater opportunities than we have in the opposition, and of course its expert teams and advisers. The adoption of the law itself is likely to accelerate the reform of the tax system in addition to direct positive effects. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u236	Thank you very much. The position of New Slovenia will be presented by Mr Ciril Testen.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u237	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Minister, co-worker, Members and Members of Parliament. The proposal for a law on the termination of the tax on salaries paid and the tax rate for 2006 is not acceptable in the opinion of the New Slovenia Group of Members, and I will state the reasons why. In our view, it is unacceptable to abolish the tax on paid salaries until the Government has other resources to fill the revenue part of the state budget. The fundamental purpose of the proposalr, whose honesty I doubt, is to relieve the economy, although interesting and worth the attention, but this same proposaler cannot tell where to make up for the lack of funding. Some of this was done by Mr. Horvat in their position. A bit irresponsiblely, the proposaler is messing with the government's forecast of restrictive and more realistic policies. Moreover, the claim that this deficit will not affect the larger budget deficit and will not jeopardise the euro's takeover cannot be maintained. The proposer knows very well that it is possible to keep the deficit at this level only on condition that the revenues are not significantly reduced. While the proposal correctly notes that the abolition would reduce the costs for employers, which would undoubtedly have a positive impact on the competitiveness of our economy. If we know why this tax was introduced, this tax was primarily intended to relieve labour intensive industries, and I think that it has partially achieved this objective. However, the proposaler's explanation is now mainly in this direction that high wages need to be unloaded. It also maintains the claim by Pardon, but the slightly more cautious proponents should certainly be arguing that the abolition of the tax on paid salaries will significantly increase the investment activity of domestic and foreign investors. [[...]] I believe that the applicants are aware that the government has been preparing changes in tax legislation for a long time and that it would be meaningful and proper for the government and for the working group that is working on this to wait for a comprehensive proposal. The partial proposals proposed by the proponents certainly do not help to solve the problems more quickly, which was not the least demonstrated by the laws that were unsystematicly adopted in the spring of 2004 and are still causing many problems and serious blood. However, the most disturbing in all matters are certainly the objectives pursued by the proposer. Their main objective is to persuade and prevent the government and the ruling coalition to deal with the problems that need to be addressed as soon as possible. This has also been very apparent in the attempt to delay the adoption of the budget's balance sheet. They would like to draw attention to their claims that, as the opposition, they will be constructive and will support all those solutions that will be good for Slovenia. I would also like to remind them of the fact that the Wage Tax Act was passed in 1996 and that in the past years, when they were in power, they had never come up with the idea of proposing an end, but only when they came to the opposition. In Novi Slovenije - The Christian People's Party for all the above reasons of the bill will not be supported. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the fact that it is impossible to ignore that the applicants are systematically working on trying to reduce the revenue of the budget on the one hand and on the other hand come with proposals, a typical example was the pension law which we considered a few days ago to make the expenditure as high as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u238	Thank you very much. I invite Ambassador Michael Prevc to present the position of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u239	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law on the termination of the tax on salaries paid and the tax rate for 2006 submitted to the national assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by a group of Members is intended to reduce the tax rates by half in 2006 and, as of 1.1.2007, it is envisaged that this tax will not be paid at all. According to the Government, which notes that the abolition of this budget resource would result in a significant loss of revenue, with a budget of as much as EUR 117.9 billion for 2005, for which, for the time being, no replacement resources can be foreseen in this existing system of public finances. The government also considers that, within the short period provided for in the proposal for the termination of the Tax Law on paid wages and the rate of tax for 2006, this public financial resource cannot be eliminated. Given that we have heard from the Minister that the possibilities for tax evasion of the economy are currently being examined in the context of comprehensive tax reform and medium-term budget restructuring, we will not support this proposal in the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u240	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Rezman to present the position of DeSUS.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u241	Thank you very much. The DeSUS Group considers that the incentive, if so meant, is right to change the tax system as soon as possible, but that what is on the table is not what we could support without a reserve. It seems to us that whatever is trying to be wrapped in some decorative paper seems to be at least at first sight and outwardly acceptable. In particular, if we equip this with a suggestion that only this payload is possible to take into account and increase competitiveness, that this is what the entrepreneurial environment will change, that this is what it will mean to deregulation, that it is what new jobs will mean, and so on and so on. In short, all the concepts and all the measures that we probably all agree will need to be implemented. But in the back, there's a threat like czech, but those who won't take it quite, and they're against doing something good for Slovenia. Approximately so, we think, is with this proposal. In the long run, this is certainly the right direction and is copied from a number of other documents that we already know. The level of probability that this would be adopted today is, in my opinion, null and void. Then why is it that someone, for what purpose, then suggests this, is, of course, a matter of considering each individual so as not to discuss it in public. The possibility of implementation is, in my opinion, also null and void. And it's almost a shame to put too much time into this consideration of the possibility of implementation. The impact and possible substitution measures were also considered. I agree, someone said before that what Mr Ferri Horvat presented was actually more appropriate than what the applicants wrote in the document. The government has therefore refused, promising us a more comprehensive preparation of changes in this area and a more gradual reform. If this is what we can bet on, of course in the DeSUS Group, we agree. And the logic of all this writing, at least we think, is obvious. Talk about it, accept our suggestions, or you will be blamed for everything bad that will happen in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u242	Thank you very much. I'm asking SDS, will anyone present your position because I don't see Polonce Dobrajc, who's registered? Mr. Versnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u243	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr. Minister with co-worker, distinguished colleague and colleague. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, the proposal submitted by the LDS, namely the proposal to end the pay tax law, is not supported. Why do we support this proposal? The tax on paid wages entered into force in 1996. If memory does not deceive me, after a lengthy discussion he proposed, I think Mr. Gaspari, in order to reduce the rate of contribution to compulsory pension insurance from 12% to 8% and 12.85 to 8.5. This introduced something that we have always condemned in companies, we did not want this tax because it actually burdened the labour intensive industries. Of course, in today's debate, we are increasingly finding that this proposal is not a good day, but it is a day to actually put a mine on the government or even otherwise to break the budget. It is certainly clear to the applicant that the loss of this tax on paid salaries means that the 2006 and 2007 budget is at risk, of course if there are no relevant systemic changes in the back. These relevant changes are happening, we have heard this several times, from both the relevant ministers and the Prime Minister, but let us let experts work in this area, and if we can no longer offer them something consistent, let them work in peace and prepare appropriate changes, which will probably end this tax at the end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u244	Thank you very much. And the last one has the word mag. Milan M. Cwickl, who will present the position of Liberal Democracy. I'm guessing Milan Friday will do it.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u245	Nice greetings, minister, presidents, colleagues, colleagues. The current law on taxation on paid wages has already been said to have been passed in July 1996, thus running the tenth year of its validity. He's done his job. It's time for him to retire. The law imposes on employers to charge and pay the gross wages paid at different rates, depending on the amount of each gross salary. At the time the law was adopted, this was the only real form of ensuring the needs for public financial revenues or covering public spending. In his presentation of the government's position, the former governments, which led the country for 12 years, were ineffective. Of course, he forgot that during this period the average economic growth was 4.3% and that this economic growth has fallen dramatically in half a year. After nine years in Slovenia, the socio-economic situation is completely different and, of course, there is a real basis for amending the law. The main purpose of our proposed amendment to the pay tax law is to relieve the economy by reducing the tax rate by 50% in 2006 and completely abolishing the tax from 1.1.2007. The adoption of the bill would reduce the costs of employers in all areas, both in the economy and in the economy. The cost of high-educated labour would be substantially reduced, thus stimulating the company to employ such a workforce. The lower costs of the employer would relieve the economy and allow for more inflows of domestic and foreign investors or investments. It would also increase the competitiveness of the economy, create a more business-friendly environment, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises, create new jobs, increase economic growth and reduce unemployment. The adoption of the law is also in line with the objectives of the strategy for the development of Slovenia and the Lisbon strategy, as it increases employment and lower costs for employers would increase investment in research and technological development. The adoption of the law would also mean the realization of development priorities and strategies in the field of a more efficient and cheaper country. So all the elements or reasons for marriage to be concluded as soon as possible. What would be the public financial impact of the law? The envisaged 125 billion tolars, which will halve the revenue of the budget in 2006, and in the following year, 2007 would, of course, no longer be the revenue of the budget. The structure of this 125 billion is such that the economy contributes 80 billion and the public sector 45 billion of these funds. Since the adoption of the law will reduce public sector wage taxes by 22.5 billion each year, the net effect of the abolition of the tax on paid salaries will therefore be 40 billion, not half billion, as the government or some individuals wish to misinterpret and inform the Slovenian public and the Member States. It is clear that the 2006 and 2007 budgets will have to be restrictive because of the convergence programme obligations and our proposal for a law will follow. The long wait for a comprehensive solution to the tax legislation, which the government has been forecasting for a long time, will obviously last for a long time, as it does not appear that the proposal will be harmonised soon in all the divisive situations between government representatives and preparers of comprehensive tax legislation. Before the opposition, the current coalition has always been critical of the pay tax law and its abolition or at least reduction has promised citizens in all its performances and even in the coalition contract. He now has the opportunity to act with the support of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u246	Thank you very much. We're done presenting our views. There is a general debate between Members and Members. I will only invite to the word those whom I see in the hall, for there are some that are missing. And the first one has the word, Mr. Member Miran Potch.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u247	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, Dr. Bayuk, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The issue of pay taxes, as you all said, is present in the country for 10 years, there was a lot of talk about, we know how we introduced it, we know how unhappy we were to have it, and there was a proposal for its phasing out. I will, perhaps for my mode of discussion unusually, and I ask that you take this for granted, but today, with great surprise, I must say, and amazement at the government's reaction to yesterday's anti-corruption bill. And I must say that if, in the same logic as the government has acceded to the anti-corruption law, I would expect the government's position today presented by Mr Minister to be about the following: for the first time, the government is firmly determined to change the unacceptable economic and tax policy of the former government and to introduce a system that will be much more stimulating for the economy, visible public finances and other benefits. Secondly, the government conceptually agrees with the law as it is consistent with its policy of decommissioning the economy, increasing investment in development, the importance of knowledge and other objectives of the Lisbon strategy. Thirdly, the law provides for restrictions already in 2005 and an end to 1.1.2007, which is difficult for the government to implement in relation to all the other obligations it has. However, this issue can be addressed through appropriate amendments that can be formulated in the second and third readings. Thirdly, the law is included in the reform of the tax system announced by the government this year. The law will therefore be able to be incorporated into all tax reforms in one form or another, which is absolutely necessary and is in line with the coalition programme. Fourthly, we support the law in second reading and, if necessary, in third, the government will come with concrete amendments to complement the content of the proposed law in accordance with the real possibilities and objectives of government policy. Don't mind me, it's a caricature of government positions. It would only be so if the government had approached this law in the same way as it had acceded to the anti-corruption law. That marriage was fundamentally worse by concept, by content, after all. Since you, gentlemen of the government coalition, have been politically accountable, you have taken a position to correct it beautifully. Let me fix this too! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u248	Thank you very much. Mr. Testen has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u249	Thank you for your word. I won't be very long because I've taken advantage of this for quite some time, Mr President. I'd like to remind you of a few things that have happened in the history of this tax. The tax was to generate revenue in the state budget. At the same time, social security contributions decreased from 42% to 38% when the tax was adopted in 1996. Before this tax was accepted, there was a talk about what to tax. The easiest thing to do was to tax wages, tax businesses on paid wages. There was also a speech to tax luxury. Those who were then in the national assembly will likely recall that much was being said about this. Of course, if we taxed it, it would affect certain structures of people, not those who had small wages. The other thing that really bothers me about all these proposals is that it is said that this will not affect the budget deficit and that it will not affect the associated takeover of the euro. It's an inevitable consequence. I am convinced that there is no minister who would be able to reduce budgetary expenditure for next year in such a way as to harmonise this. In all the debates on the amendments to this law, there has also been a lot of talk about the reduction and elimination of this tax. Unfortunately, however, a concrete step has not been taken in all previous years. There has been constant talk of some form that this cannot be done in the next medium term due to budgetary needs. I'm afraid we're going to get some kind of proposal in a short time that I'm not going to say, weird or stupid, that someone is going to propose the same types of VAT withdrawal. That could happen, too. In the way it's done now, something like this can happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u250	Thank you very much. Mr Janc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u251	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Mr. Minister with a co-worker, colleagues and colleagues! There is no one in this country, but also in this National Assembly, which would not have liked such a proposal, believe me. As mayor, MP, and as former head of the economy, I would be happy to support this, believe me. My citizens and voters would certainly be very pleased and, above all, employers - nevertheless. An attempt that somehow comes from the types of opposition, when this thing might have been settled in the past and tried to reduce the application of the Slovenian employer's economy, and almost nothing was done about it. I stand by and I will stand by and believe that the coalition, through tax reform, is also trying to take a step towards the more friendly Slovenian economy, towards a more friendly employer, to try, within the framework of possible tax reform, within the framework of possible public financial revenues, but to be more friendly to Slovenian workers, employers and the general economy. This is a difficult path, it is not easy and certainly in these months when this law is proposed, I simply believe that it is not possible. I also believe that the government, the ministry, we also know from the public media, that this story is being prepared and that this tax reform, which I believe is really the most difficult matter perhaps even these coalitions, will soon come to the table of our Members, the government, and will try from these words, from these many, I will also say, to take the lead by the opposition to take a step forward in how these public finances can only be distributed a little, to make those actions more competitive both in Slovenian and above all in European and global terms. I'm sure this isn't drinking water right now. How to fill this hole with other sources is simply not possible, let's be honest that this is not possible in this short time, so this is some attempt to propose a law that the legitimate opposition is trying to impose on the new government to do something about this story, but believe me, we cannot support it, even as I said at the outset, that I like it, that it smells good and I would be happy to support it, but in the structure of the budget, which I have also looked at very well, it is simply impossible, so I will not support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u252	Thank you very much. Mr. Mikolitch has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u253	Thank you so much for saying that. Let me say, honourable law-makers, with the first-signed Mr Squill, that the proposal for a law is today inconclusive to me, because it is a political provocation. It is true that our economy deals with competition problems on the market in the light of all costs incurred in individual services or products. However, it is very easy to propose a law that will halve the pay tax in 2006 and will not be halved in 2007. It argues that the adoption of the proposed law would reduce the cost of paid salaries and that in certain segments this would have a positive impact on the competitiveness of our economy. What about the other consequences? You are not writing about how to provide a replacement financial resource for the budget outflow, but you are saying that it will be necessary to behave restrictively in preparing the budget for the following year and year 2007. We know that around 125 billion budget money flows into the state treasury from this title annually. This means that 40 billion less revenue would have been incurred in the state budget for the circus in 2006, given that the country's public income tax costs would have been reduced by about 23 billion. Respectable law-makers! You left us 70 billion holes as an inheritance in this year's budget, which we had to patch up with the adoption of the balance. Now you are proposing a law that means for a coalition or government that is actively preparing the budget for the next two years, with a starting base minus 40 billion, of course in 2006 and twice in 2007. It is right that all of us sitting in this national assembly have the greatest concern for the development of the Slovenian economy. More than that, it's our duty. So I don't care, and I'm justified in asking what the end result will be if we abolish this tax. I want an answer, but I don't have one today, so the proponents didn't give it to me. Even the Governor of Banka Slovenije said that the money would go into the wind, he said he did not understand the economy. I'm sure the money won't go into the wind, but I have serious concerns about whether the desired success will be achieved. The response of companies to reduce their labour costs by abolishing the tax on paid salaries depends on the elasticity of the job offer. While the system of collective agreements in the country does not allow them to overly increase wages, if the job offer is not completely elastic, part of this will certainly go to higher wages, part of higher employment. Some experts may be able to raise their salaries to further motivate them. Your Honor! Today, we know which companies the economic operators are cutting out most of this tax. We know that the gross salary of up to 165,000 tolars is not taxed and is then taxed at three different rates, depending on the gross salary. It follows that most of the companies that have a highly educated human resources structure contribute to the state treasury. The proposer proposes phasing out taxes on paid salaries in order to relieve the economy, to increase competitiveness. I could propose another proposal, such as a reduction in VAT, the abolition of compensation for the use of building land for legal persons or companies and so on. We know a variety of measures that today theoretically hold back. I fully support the Government's position that it is the Government's priority to ensure the financial and macroeconomic conditions for taking over the euro within the deadline. I am confident that in preparing the tax legislation changes, the government will create such tax conditions that will gradually burden the economy and thus increase competitiveness on the global market. I will not support the proposed law.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u254	Thank you very much. Allow me only to explain why the order of the debaters does not correspond to the one written. For the first time because there are many Members and Members missing, the second time Mr Mikolić and Sok agreed to replace. However, I would like to take this opportunity to ask you to inform those who do not wish to discuss this in due time, as well as if there is a change in the position of the groups. This will make our work more transparent and efficient. I give the floor to Mrs. Brady Pecan.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u255	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would like to recall, for example, when the Government, which was under the mandate of 1992-1996, collaborated with the parliamentary group that proposed the law and later, in the second and third readings in intensive cooperation, then brought this law, in particular with government experts, not so much with the representatives of the parliamentary group that introduced the law, to a good end. It was the Animal Protection Act against Torture. Today it is still up - to - date, and in this way this law could go on as well. Of course, the government has ruled that more important are laws, such as the Act on the Incompatibilities of Functions, such as the Law on Amendments to the Law on Judicial Service and Similar Matters. The laws, which can actually have a significant impact on our situation, economic, standard, etc., seem to have to wait. Tax reform is certainly one of the most important tasks of this mandate. Even if it were not, this government, even if it were another government, should take tax reform as a basic task. This government could also say that the previous government, the previous coalition, was unable to bring even the first reading into the National Assembly of the Property Tax Act. The law, which has an opportunity to cover very large amounts of revenue, very large amounts of additional budgetary resources and which can be exclusively the source of municipal budgets, is the practice in Western Europe and elsewhere in the world. Why am I saying this? This is because, among other things, this government, or the 2005 budget rebalancing, provides for 48 billion tolls allocated at around 45 billion to cover the necessary compensations for municipalities that do not have sufficient income and 3 billion and 400 million to cover income losses due to reduced income inflows, after the level of non-taxable personal income has increased. There is already one possibility, and this very large inflow, which could compensate on one side of this settlement and on the other hand may even reduce the part of the income that belongs to the municipalities. It is said that a tax on the property of citizens and also legal persons, namely real estate, could replace part of this 35% of the income they receive from the whole bag of the municipality. So it is possible to provide additional resources, it is possible, as I heard earlier in one debate, to introduce a tax on luxury. In the Western European countries of the European Union, there are quite a few countries in the former 15 countries that prescribe a tax on luxury. So, there could be an extra tens of billions here, I'd hope to argue. For example, one such interesting information is that one of these telephones, which we also use for private purposes, is a large inflow from this title. The income we pay at the expense of credit ratings for service phones in Slovenia amounts to several billion tolars. That's possible resources. Those who have sufficient income, those who have capital, should be taxed. For this reason, I believe that the economic burdens must be sought in such a way as to enforce laws such as those proposed by the Liberal Democracy. I know very well here, secondly, that in two years it is not possible to abolish the tax on paid wages, that it is a provocative move by the opposition party, which is perfectly normal. I do not think that any normal opposition party will propose an acceptable normal rate of abolition of a tax because it must be provocative. The government, as a sober, thinking entity, will say, "Of course, you guys are right, this tax has to be abolished in order to accelerate the development of the economy, to increase competitiveness, to relieve the labour intensive industries, in particular, to relieve those companies that employ highly educated and adequately paid professionals, for whom most of this tax is paid and we will be paying at a normal rate and with reasonable introduction of new taxes, new tax sources, to make up for this loss so that they will not end up paying the economy, but will pay those who would have to pay long ago." Here I have to agree with a colleague who was, I don't remember who was, who said, "Why wasn't there a tax on luxury already when there was a first talk about it?" I also ask why, for God's sake, the law on property taxes has already been passed, where we know that very big money is being hidden. Because in the last 15 years, it has moved from social property to private property, which must be taxed. He's being taxed by all the countries in this world, only we're waiting, I don't know what. It's probably that they're going to pour this property abroad or what I know. It's a good thing the houses can't be put on a cart and taken abroad. Luxury can be reported abroad. But this will require our tax administration to look a little more intensively for and find possible taxable resources. I could tell you here one case where it's possible to find sources of taxation. Not to raise the tax rate for an individual without having already taxed and already paying the tax, but those who do not pay the tax have the same benefits as those who pay the tax should be sought and taxed. At the beginning of my term in Izola, when we amended the decree on compensation for the use of building land in 1998 - we know that it is the predecessor of that well-known and important property tax - because we covered compensation for the use of building land in non-payers until then, and for those who had displayed a square of their properties up to half of what they actually had, we suddenly raised the inflows to the municipal budget by 100%. And those who have already paid this tax have not been harmed at all. We have not taken anything more from them, who have so far been honest and paid for it all, than before. So we're basically just captured everywhere we need to be covered. And that's the function of tax administration, and here I think there's a lot to draw in the budget. Of course, it is also true that many things can be deleted from the budget, but this is much more difficult. I agree that Mr Finance Minister would probably much rather see the budget rebalancing be lower than it has been adopted, but one person cannot stand up to many because these many have a lot of interests covered by two million backgrounds and I understand that it was not possible to achieve that expenditure on individual items could be substantially reduced already this year. I would really suggest that, if not the other, it would be nice to hear that the government would say that we will not wait until the 2008 elections, because then this tax reform will not be, in particular because of all the unsympathetic measures, and this is certainly an unsympathetic measure to adopt the law on property tax and the law on luxury tax, should be adopted immediately after the start of the mandate. It's not because I'm the opposition, but I'm telling you something bad, it's because it's a practice everywhere. All over the world, wherever you come from, first there is a promise to reduce taxes, Mr Bush has always done so and then slightly raises them because, of course, his budget deficit needs to be covered. He's got a chance to draw money from somewhere else, but we don't have that option, so taxes have to be introduced where they don't exist. I will, of course, if not for another reason, because I am in opposition, I have supported this marriage. However, I think it is a good incentive for a coalition and a government that seriously thinks that it will reform our tax policy to do so as soon as possible. It is said that in September or October we already have a whole package of tax laws that will be re-adopted or amended. I am sure that, and I do not doubt it, this law will be successfully rejected, as many others have already done, or many others will accept that this legislation will be such that the tax on salaries paid will be abolished within four to five years. Then, of course, I will gladly vote in favour of such legislation without any protest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u256	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor. Mr. Boyan Starman will be next.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u257	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members, distinguished Minister with a co-worker, honourable motions for the law! The proposal for a law on the termination of the tax on salaries paid and the rate of the tax paid for 2006 is not, in my firm opinion, suitable for further consideration. The Pay Tax Act was adopted in 1996 and applied on 1 July of the same year. The law imposed an obligation on employers or payers to charge and pay taxes on gross wages paid. The tax is charged at a rate which depends on the amount of each gross salary and is progressive. The private sector in particular has been strongly critical of this law all the time, especially employers in the labour-intensive sectors. It's just that the easiest way to collect taxes is to sit on your salary. And here's the original sin. The original sin, therefore, is that we have the existing law at all. The abolition of the tax on paid wages is welcome for employers, especially in terms of competitiveness and other aspects. Of course, if the applicant had said A, I would expect him to also say correctional and professional B. B means how to fill some ten billion holes in the state budget. I'm not going to mention and quote the number on purpose because I didn't do any simulations or projections. To give the government only instructions that it must act restrictively is, in my opinion, too little. Under this logic, we could propose a reduction of any other tax; we would like taxpayers, citizens and citizens very much; and the government would order restraint. Unfortunately, this equation does not work out, so there remains an inequality. The Pay Tax Act also experienced a slight change in last year on the basis of an agreement on a private sector wage policy in the period 2004-2005. The signatories also took into account the commitment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the first half of 2004 to propose and endeavour to adopt amendments as soon as possible and to supplement the pay tax law by setting the lower threshold for taxable salaries at $165,000. This really happened on September 1, 2004. However, let me add that from the employer's point of view, the positive effect of this tax change has been eliminated, as employers had to reconcile wages by at least 5,000 tolar on the basis of this agreement; this is what we all remember well. Neither for the labour intensive sectors of effect, unfortunately, was there. I myself felt this on my own skin or on the specific data of an economic society in which I was responsible for calculating wages for almost 5,000-member collective. I know you can't mix taxes and wages. The net effect of the agreement in terms of labour costs is zero. In my opinion, the tax system needs to be fully resolved. Although partial solutions can at first sight be acceptable and attractive, they cannot contribute to a stable tax system. Last year, I expected the projected tax change on paid salaries to go in the direction of abolishing this tax. Not least, it would be a good pre-election move. Instead of the proposed bill of motion, with the first signed mag. I would rather wait for Milan M. Sziklom to propose a comprehensive tax reform and reform of the medium-term budget restructuring. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u258	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Starman has the floor, and Mr Sok will be next.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u259	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! I think that the proposal that we have on the table, if not the other, is inconclusive, because it does not provide for how this income outage would be covered in the next two and subsequent years. I think that this is absolutely necessary, especially if we find out what our debate on the budget balance was, where we have found that the resources for development in the budget are significantly insufficient. I can say that in the end, we have adopted all investment assets, direct investment and purchases for $82 billion and 88 billion of investment transfers. If there were 40 billion in the next year's budget or 45, whatever this calculation would be, it can't actually be anywhere but investments. I think that the debate, as Mr Horvat and Pecan began, is much more constructive, because first of all it is necessary to prepare the conditions for us to abolish the tax on the payroll and perhaps another tax. I am coming from the economy, and I am going to take this very much and I am going to try to make this happen and that the economy is going to be burdened. And not only that tax, but others as I mentioned. In our public consumption, if I take the data from last year, when we had 2,683 billion revenue from total public spending, we collected 506 billion dollars from income and profit tax and 899 billion dollars from contributions and for social security and an additional 117.6 from income. That's 57.6% at a total of 2,683 billion. I think that collecting such a share from wages and earnings is a lot, and this puts us last in the competitive capacity of our Slovenia. It is therefore imperative that these things be changed. If we look at the structures of our taxation, where we see that our consumption is taxed at about 24%, our wages are taxed at 43%, our capital is taxed at 24%, it is clear that there is no room for wage taxation and that we only need to go back here and reduce these taxes. Even consumption taxes, I think they could not change in any direction, because otherwise our competitiveness would be questionable, but of course the issue of capital taxation is one way or another. But here I think there are reserves. The other thing that seems very important to me is that we have created a huge and non-productive apparatus that is too expensive. We will have to do and undertake structural reforms to reduce our public spending. I think here we have a very unproductive sphere of education, of health care, which is too expensive. If we just look at the number, last year we paid 107 000 employees in health and education and social services and 49 thousand 400 employees in public administration, 152, 153 thousand, over 700 billion tolars. These amounts are only for salaries and, of course, some movements will need to be made in rationalisation in all these public authorities and public services, because we see that we will soon become as a country for ourselves. Of course, our country is not competitive because in some ways we are in a situation where we are spending more and eating into our substance. There's not enough funds for investment and development. I anticipate and hope that the tax reform will actually see the light of the world sooner than some have thought, because it is imperative that it be very fast and as professionally as possible, of course based on the analysis of the analysis and structural changes made on the revenue side as well as on the expenditure of our budget and public spending. I'm gonna support all this stuff so these things happen as soon as possible. We may also witness that the tax on the payroll will be abolished sooner than we count, and I hope that this will happen. In these efforts, however, I would like to say that we will pressure the government and expect it to be as quickly and as comprehensively as possible, but I cannot support it in the way that we have received the proposed law, despite its great desire. However, I will support all activities in the direction of reducing public spending and reducing taxes in our country, because this is the only way we will become more competitive and start creating a new value. This is the only way to increase our standard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u260	Yes, Mr. Squeakle. It's a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u261	I was misunderstood, in accordance with Article 17, I would briefly reply in the reply to some Members, and in particular to the Member of Parliament, because he said that we did not tell and we do not know where we would take the debaters, the proponents. Excuse me, may I?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u262	Please, just talk to the mag. Squeak.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u263	We are proposing, and there is no other candidate, unless you, Mr Tanko, Mr Sok, I apologize. This will leave 80 billion more in the economy. If 80 billion goes into profit, this will result in 20 billion income from legal persons. However, if 80 billion goes to pay, to spend, there will be more income from income or other excise duties and at least 30 billion revenues. That's the first effect. Second effect. As the costs will be lower, more people can be employed. If more people are employed, there will be higher economic growth. Let us assume that economic growth will be half higher than what the government says it will be higher given the average of economic growth. The government says it'll be 3%, and I only take half of 3%, that's 1.5%. This is 90 billion additional gross domestic product. As this is taxed in Slovenia with 45%, it is an additional around 42 billion revenue in public finances. That's how this story ends. If, of course, the government wants to understand that this law is in fact the only law they can enforce in their mandate. Everything else is obvious, given the discussions that are impossible among the proponents themselves, the strategic councils. And the last sentence in the replica. Why did we propose that? We have proposed on the initiative of the strategic world itself. When Mr Damjan represented a single tax rate, we were at his presentation and then told Mr Damjan that it would be easier to introduce the abolition of the pay tax instead of a single tax rate. He said he would propose himself to the Prime Minister and to Mr Bayuk. We waited 14 days, nothing happened, and we wrote the law. Take it, adopt it, extend it to the entire term, but don't say the law isn't professional. However, if the law is unprofessional, I wonder what the professional services of the President of the National Assembly are doing to allow the procedure in law at all. Then of course there's something wrong here. Therefore, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament, the law has its own logic.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u264	Mr. Squeakle, three minutes out.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u265	Thank you very much. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u266	Thank you very much. I won't allow a replica of the replica. I would like to invite Mr Sok to the floor, but then it will be Mr Kovacic's turn, given that there are no other Members, unless someone shows up. Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u267	Thank you very much. Dear President, fellow Members and Members, Mr Minister! If you were doing what you were saying now, Comrade Squeakl, then the Liberal Democracy would still be in power and we wouldn't have this cross in a party that we can read about today in all Slovenian media. They write every day about where you are and what you've made up and so forth. For this reason, this law can be very popular and we also like the proposal and agree that this tax will have to be abolished. And the minister also announced that the government is working on preparing a comprehensive tax reform and is preparing a restructuring of the budget, but there is no way to do so now with one stroke. Perhaps it would be good if you proposed another law with three articles and a law on savings. This is absolutely necessary. I am much more convinced by the debate by fellow Member Horvath than by the opposition Member, than by yours, I will say, so for the hair drawn arguments. If I remind you of the debate at the time of the rebalancing, the government had to cover 70 billion commitments and then create these billions and cover some of the things you left behind, only in the area of teachers' salaries, it was necessary to provide 19 billion, as if they did not know at the beginning of the year how much money needed to be spent on teachers' salaries. And what you're saying right now is, of course, nicely said, I can't use a second word as a diversion and assembling political points. At this point it is simply not possible to do this because there is no possibility. However, we all know and know that much more will have to be done in the future in the areas of saving, reducing, and even taxes that are a problem in Slovenia, and then also in the area of tax collection and contributions, as said by fellow Member Horvat. There is no doubt that the government is aware of this. Despite these shortcomings, which we have faced at the time of the rebalancing, we must admit that the government has done a great deal. It has reduced the budget deficit, which is very important for taking over the euro, and this is our joint commitment, beginning in 2007. For the first time, the government had taken into account the need to increase funds for congregations, and we had witnessed for four years earlier that laws imposed ever - new and new obligations on the congregations. The former government did not have a hearing about it, this government took responsibility and increased funds for the congregations. The government has also solved one major problem that has been going on for a long period of time, providing the funds required by law for the operation of the craft fund. Maybe a little over 4 billion isn't much, but if you have a 70 billion big budget hole, that's a lot of money. It also increased the funds for justice and today we talked about courts, about the functioning of the judicial system in Slovenia. We all agreed, including you opposition colleagues, mainly from a party of Social Democrats, that our judicial system does not work as it should. It is in the government to ensure and try to provide better and more normal working conditions in the courts by means of several means. That's how you have to admit what was done. Of course, such and similar laws by the opposition can be expected even more in the future. In fact, there are attempts to raise political points in particular. And I would like to answer you if you knew what must be done and done, why then in the twelve-year history of rule you did none of this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u268	Thank you very much. Mr Lahovnik, who has replaced Mr Anderlič, is next. Then let Mr Gantar be prepared, because Mr Kovacic is cancelling the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u269	Thank you very much. Dear Members and Members! I will, of course, support the bill on the abolition of the tax on the payment list. I will support it simply because the public financial situation makes this possible. The fact is that about 125 billion tolls of this tax flow into the state treasury annually. The net effect, if this tax is abolished, is only 75 to 80 billion of the state budget. Simply because this tax is also paid by the State to all public servants. And if you calculate the net effect, you'll see it's substantially smaller and it's equal to that number that we're talking about today, that's up to 80 billion tolars. It should also be borne in mind that the abolition of the tax on the payroll increases the competitiveness of the economy, which would have a very beneficial impact on economic growth. This title would also increase employment in Slovenia and tax revenues would also be increased from this title. This means that it would actually be a net effect - when you talk about the downturn, for how much less money would be in the state budget. That's not true! It is not true, due to higher competitiveness, higher employment, which would be reflected both in more paid social security contributions, more paid taxes and, if you want, in smaller unemployment transfers, this effect would be significantly lower than you are speaking here today. The fact is, as it has already been said, that if not, companies would pay more tax. And if you want, there would also be an increase in net wages and public consumption or inflows from value added tax. These are the facts. And it just needs to be calculated and you'll see that the effect is significantly smaller. I don't know what you're wondering, Mr. Minister of Finance. Sometimes you have to calculate something here and there. The fact is, when you mention the previous government, that the previous government raised the threshold for the tax on the payment sheet from 130,000 to 165,000 dollars gross. It has thus burdened those labour intensive activities which have faced the challenges of restructuring. You know it's a textile, leather, wood-processing activity. Now we are all given the opportunity to relieve the rest of the labour intensive sectors as well. In particular, those who generate higher added value, which also pay appropriate higher wages to this end. And this is all very beneficial to the competitiveness of the economy. If work in Slovenia is burdened on average with 42% and capital is significantly lower, if we are also looking at effective taxation of legal persons, which is somewhere between 17% and 18%, then we can agree that work needs to be unloaded. I am also very surprised that you do not support this law by the representatives of the coalition. Calling, why haven't you done anything in the last 12 years? That means you don't have to do anything else. You can always refer to this, because something should have been done, and it hasn't been done yet. Why haven't you done this in the past? That can always be an argument then and we can all go home together and we're all happy. But life will go on, Slovenia has a new government, and it also has a new opposition, which has proposed a constructive law that is in the interest of the Slovenian economy, which relieves work, enhances the competitiveness of the economy and makes it possible to create new jobs. And if you are serious, if you believe in the strategy for the development of Slovenia, then this law will be supported. All the rest, of course, are empty words and pronouncing why you cannot support this marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u270	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Gantar to the floor, and then Mr Germić should be prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u271	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I would like to say that I had hoped for perhaps a slightly less politically focused debate and rejection by Minister Bajuk, even though I did not expect it. I was hoping. But in spite of everything, I'd say hi to him very much between us, because he's one of the few ministers who's at least coming. We have adopted many laws, we have given, we have considered, and we have not had any ministers, and from this point of view, and I am pleased to have them, and that I can also address them directly. I'll start with where my colleague, Matthew Lahovnik, ended up. What have we been doing for 12 years? Of course, I was in the government when the law was passed. And the situation was different back then. The report or government opinion states that the only reason for the increase, the introduction of this tax, is the reduction of the rate of contribution. That was one of the reasons, but not the last and only one. I remember these discussions well. During the current period of economic development of Slovenia, in transition, we were dealing with high wage growth. Wages didn't have a "natural enemy". If we wanted to ease inflation and wage growth, it was one of the mechanisms with which at least a partial limit was placed too high or too fast to increase wages. That would be one of the additional, I won't say the only reasons again, but this thought was in play too. And today, of course, this reason no longer plays any role. Today, of course, the situation is different, today the role of intellectual and highly paid work is significantly greater than it was then, even though it has been less than ten years. Today, this tax is problematic in particular in this respect, not only from this burden, of low-paid jobs, but mainly from the point of view of burdening highly professional intellectually demanding works. We're predicting that we'll end this tax, announced. This promise is fulfilled even when we are in opposition in a constructive way. If you think this tax has to be abolished, you probably think that if you think these hands are too short, then we think it's also the power to stretch them. There would be no reason not to extend this hand to three, maybe even four years, but I think from the point of view of the public financial situation, it would take two or three years for this to happen. All I would say is that we need to look at the context of tax reform. All tax reforms, so-called global, radical, which are supposed to lead to a single tax rate, are now on the side as well as other incremental, gradual reforms, both foresee the abolition of this tax. Therefore, the adoption of this law can under no circumstances be a wrong decision. We should decide at some time how quickly to break it down or put an end to it. I myself believe that it is necessary to actually start it immediately and thus give a positive signal to the economy, as well as some of the economic growth that is coming, as it all appears. That would certainly mean that. I am particularly concerned about tax reform issues. That was the great theme of this government. And we listened primarily to this darkness because we feel that we did not have the happiest hands everywhere. I only consider the debate on a single tax rate to be very important for Slovenia, although I do not believe it will ever come to it, but I think it has revealed a whole range of very important economic and other issues and issues that need to be discussed. From this point of view, I welcome this debate, and most of these debates will eventually lead to some result. However, this small reform, to be prepared by the group of Prof. Kranjac, also points to some relatively unfortunate end. The fact is, I fully agree that it is necessary for someone with a red pencil to go over the seminar assignment that we wrote, probably not all good, probably something needs to be fixed, but what I've heard in the last few days, I don't know what we're talking about. I am sure, Mr Minister, that given that we are now in July, you will not be able to bring into this Parliament even the slightest changes that would mean anything for tax reform this year. And in this way we are even saving you and actually allowing you, as my colleague Potrč thought somewhat ironically. Amend the law to make it a suitable basis, say that it is necessary to amend the deadlines and procedures or steps to be followed. I don't think most people in LDS, at least for themselves, would object in any way, and we will even support it. I think there are a lot of reasons why this law is taken primarily as a constructive attempt and a contribution to doing something on this matter. That it is not a question of prestige or rivalry and that it must be clear to us all that tax reform will not only go through by abolishing or reducing one tax and introducing new ones, even though it is necessary, good and so forth, as a luxury, wealth and so on. Any tax reform in Slovenia and elsewhere in countries with a similar tax system and development will also have to mean a certain reduction and restructuring of budgetary expenditure. Without this tax reform, there is no big one, not a small one. Such steps must be taken at the outset, not towards the end of the mandate. You won't be working against the end of your term. Now we, perhaps in our naivety, are even helping you to do something. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u272	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Germić to the floor, then it will be Mr Gulič.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u273	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Today it was said that the proposaler made step A, but did not take step B. I think this is not the case, because step B, if we read everything in the text before the text of the articles, you can find out exactly what this step is or what this assessment of step A is. When I read the reply of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and its position on this law, it is certainly not possible to say that this step B was taken by the Government, because, apart from somehow a historian and a review of the fate of this tax through the history of this text and the warnings in this text, it was not possible to see what should be expected of the Government in view of the clear financial and other effects justified by the applicant in the draft law. This is what has been said many times today that these funds, which would be returned to the promotion of the competitiveness of the economy, to new jobs, to jobs, are nowhere to be evaluated, in what way the Government would have argued that this argument, which says that the budget deficit is 117.9 billion, would have been justified by the rejection of this law. Here, too, I would like to draw attention to the fact that I also miss this cooperation in the search for a common solution to hinder the exit from the changes in tax legislation. Because even as we follow the various proposals of the Strategic Council, the tax reform team, we get a type of information through the media, while the government only somehow predicts what will happen. Here I would also touch on today's article in Finance, which states that the Prime Minister should think very carefully today. Perhaps this summer is exactly the time for today's debate on this law, because in the alliances that there are six - here would mention only three small, economic growth, investment decline, the rise of pessimism of entrepreneurs - this might be, Mr Financial Minister, an appeal to you to think carefully today about perhaps supporting this law, which could turn these negative trends into positives. I would like to take this opportunity, given today by the opposition, in the statements made by the Prime Minister, who said he would support the opposition's good proposals. This goodwill, which has been demonstrated by the opposition by the proposal of this law, is also shown by you, as you have shown by the government yesterday, and you should make a thorough commitment to this law in the sense that the negative trends that have been happening to us lately will turn to positive ones. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u274	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Gulic to the floor. Then it is the turn of Mr Milan Petek.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u275	Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished president! I'd like to talk more about the adoption of this law, not the law itself. Of course, the law was prepared carefully and with all seriousness, and so it was proposed. In view of the fact that even debaters from all political options have found that something has to be changed and that the repeal of this law is necessary in the coming years, of course it is not possible in one or two years, it is, in some ways, unreasonable that the coalition is so broken down that the law should be adopted and put into a second reading. Unseriousness and provocation have been seen. Even so, there is so much good in this law that it is worth taking, adopting, and then correcting. If we look at that we passed a law yesterday on the abolition of the anti-corruption commission and putting Mr Kos in the position of "arbeitsloss" or "arbeitsverbot", then I don't know why we shouldn't accept it today and then amend it. That's why we're here to fix and supplement. Mr Bajuk, even though he smiles so terribly, could actually put up his word, as it is also in his best interests after all. I am not going to end up with no idea what kind of calls, but we can also take as an example a country where taxes are not available at all, either in other ways or very small. But these are actually all fantasies and illusions. We now live from a different world, from different roots, and from different backgrounds. The perception that something has not been done is completely irrelevant. Because he's kind of talking about why you didn't want to before you were sowing. Some things in this world just have their legitimacy. But a tax-free country is the only country in the world I know, NSK.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u276	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Milan Petk to the floor and then it is the turn of Mr Hvauc.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u277	Thank you, Chairman. I have to say that I have no doubt about the physical and mental capacity of the Minister, which he has proved by the fact that he, I think, followed us for 48 hours and participated in the meeting of the Committee on Finance, but I have little doubt that the reason Mr Gantar gave us is that he is the one here. It seems more to me that somehow he does not trust his secretary, who could sit here instead, in my view, with these recent actions, how he commented on a decision that was not yet public, how he "spouted" or rejected Mr Kranjc's proposal, the reason why Mr Minister would rather sit here and listen to what we are discussing today. I hope it is not that his wish is sincere, it is to participate in this debate. It also seems to me that it is, in fact, an incomprehensible position of the government, which is so passively reacting to this proposal of the law. When you read this document that you sent to us, that is to say, to all Members, there is no salt, here is the reference to some facts, which is copied what is written in our interpretation, some numbers about how the law changed. And nothing else, nothing of yours, nothing of what you would say, because you are at least partially right or you could change it or we will change it, but you wrote in two points that is the reason that Mr. Germič quoted 117.9 billion, which of course is not true, it is not yet true, but it is 123 billion at this point but something else, and that you do not support this law. That's what's running away. You have already decided to reject this law, not to comment on it, not to deal with it, because you have some solutions. But these solutions are not, we are waiting, we are waiting, you are arguing with each other, they will be, the budget should be put on the table, and there will be no proposal of yours on the table to say, "it is for grabbing something the Liberal Democracy has given, we will try to change so much that it will also be useful for us and that it will be bearable for us and that the National Assembly will also be able to adopt the amended law". Why didn't you complete it by doing it instead of two years, as we suggest or in two years, for three years, why you didn't make any proposals, how you could actually change one part of that tax, or one part of that bill. This is what, Mr Minister, escapes all of us, who are probably on this side expecting a concrete response from you in this regard. I think we've offered a lot of prescriptions, I think we've told you what the reasons are, and everything I'd continue to say would actually be unnecessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u278	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Happy Hwauca to the floor, and then Mr. Franc will be prepared. [[Ferry]] Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u279	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I think that my colleague Friday's introductory debate was in no way related to the content of this bill today, and I would ask that my colleagues follow the rules, but also that you do not allow a debate on a topic that is not on the agenda. Thank you very much again. Well, I would also like to thank you for, I would say, one very simple formula that I have heard today, how to raise economic growth in this country. I'm actually very surprised, despite my modest economic knowledge, that there are such simple recipes, but I don't know why, if it's that simple, we didn't use it at least a little earlier, it would be much nicer for us, much less problems.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u280	Please, only Mr. Hvauc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u281	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Therefore, the proponents justify the adoption of this law with the preferred arguments, it is said, a decommissioning of the economy, increased economic growth, job conservation and so on, an increase in economic efficiency and so on. That's all nice and all right. But I think that this law actually has one big flaw because it does not provide for alternative resources for the disposal of these funds, which are also mentioned. [[..]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Saving, yes, of course. [[..]] I beg you not to interrupt me, because I, too, was silent when I listened to Mr Squeak and his other colleagues' discussions. The situation would, of course, be easier, much easier to look for room for manoeuvre to really end this tax on paid wages, which is, in fact, as already stated here, one anomaly that is not comparable to the market economy. However, the state of public finances as we have taken over it, with all these holes that some of my colleagues have already talked about - we will also talk about one of these holes tomorrow, when we confirm the guarantee law for rail projects that were not from yesterday, but which were already known in 1999, 2001, 2003, when the financial memorandum was signed with the European Commission [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u282	I'm asking for peace.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u283	It would probably be a lot easier to replace these funds. [[...]] However, since the situation is as it is, it will be necessary to seek some other measures more systematic and broader in the tax area as a whole. Why is there suddenly so much concern for the state of our economy, for economic growth, for the favourable conditions for the functioning of this economy? In 1996 there were more options to fill the budget, and then you did not choose to tax the assets, capital returns, interest and so on, but only work, which is already so expensive in Slovenia, but not net wages, but total labour costs. Why the job? But what worries me even more about the whole thing is that, as I've heard, this was a temporary measure, an intervention measure and so on, the importance and weight of this tax has increased since 1996. In 1996, the share of this tax on paid wages in gross domestic product was 0.55%. The trend is increasing all the time. In 2004 it was already 1.83. The same was true of the share of the tax on paid wages in tax revenues. In 1996, it was 1.45% and in 2004 4.63%. Thus, the number of workers who were in that group or a smaller number of workers who were in that group who were not taxed increased throughout the period but at the same time an effective rate of this tax increased. Now comes the miracle conversion. Since 1996, we have been increasing our share and efficiency, and now a miraculous turnover comes when we suddenly find out, but now this tax has to be abolished because of the competitiveness of the economy, and I do not know what to do as soon as possible. What has come to this knowledge? I don't know. I don't see any honest, honest reason. And in my opinion, it is easy to collect points without serious will to actually be good for the country and for the citizens. We have heard that there were also some changes in that there was a threshold for the untaxed. This is supposed to help leather, wood, textile, and I do not yet know any other activities that are labour-intensive. But did this really relieve these activities? Unfortunately, we have them because they are simply not in Slovenia anymore. This was an effect, among other things, of this relief and terrible concern for our economy. Because of what I have said, I think that this bill, which may also be likeable, is simply not ripe for admission at this time, and I also think that the applicants did not mean it when they proposed it, but in fact, as I have already said, they are gathering political points, so I will certainly not support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u284	Thank you very much. I would like to take the floor and invite Mr. Ferri Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u285	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Dear Minister! Allow me to say a few more words to this, in addition to what I have said in the introduction to the presentation of the opinion of the Group of Members. I am very pleased with this debate and I think that it was not too much, it is not too much to spend two hours discussing such an important issue as the tax system, when we spend sometimes four or five hours on certain topics in this Chamber, it would not underestimate any which are not as important for the development of Slovenia as it is for the development of Slovenia. I also thank you for some of the praises and also thank my colleagues and colleagues who have debated whether they are in position or in opposition, whether they agree with the law or not, but there have been a lot of useful and good things said about tax reform in general. I have already pointed out in the introduction that I am well aware that the time is right and the only realistic option is to reduce or abolish this tax in the context of tax reform. And now I'm going through, and I'd like to say something. The fact is that it is the greatest responsibility - and I am also pleased, in particular, that Mr Minister, despite the many other obligations here today, is with us in this debate, because it actually holds the highest responsibility within the government, in addition to the Prime Minister, of course, for implementation, for preparation first and then for the implementation of tax reform. The fact is that tax reform is, but I would not want it to be as good as any teaching, probably professionally and politically one of the most challenging projects in the country, and that if there was, then it would be very good on this subject too, if it were possible, and if the will to come together not only Members and Members of Parliament with both in calling the "breagues" of the coalition and the opposition, but it is probably also a topic for leaders of political parties represented in Parliament. Finally, when we look at matters to the point of extreme complexity in a country such as the Federal Republic of Germany, despite the mutual party struggle, Schroeder and Merklov and others from the coalition and the opposition also sit together when it comes to crucial national issues. However, I must say that I am concerned about something that has been happening in the last period in the area of the preparation of tax reform, although I am not informed of the details, I am informed as most of you are probably, perhaps you are more informed about the Members and Members of the coalition. I get information mainly from the media, from statements made by individual representatives, from the government, from the Strategic Council, from individual experts and so on. I have a feeling, and I will be happy if Mr Minister, who has the greatest burden and will ultimately be the greatest responsibility on him, both for preparation and for implementation, if he corrects me or if he can tell us anything more about how the reform of the tax system is being prepared. Let me just give you a few of these details that have fallen into the eyes or ears of these days. A group appointed by the government, led by an expert on the tax system, familiar with the theory, practice from abroad and also at home, had practical experience, the former First Minister of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Kranjec, and it was surprising that he himself had not had the opportunity to communicate enough with the Ministry of Finance. I understand that the minister is so busy that he can't meet with him every week, but he has a secretary of state and other associates who should be working with this group. It is unusual that when he makes proposals from himself, he does not have to hand them over to anyone and talk about them, but sends them by mail. And then what's even more surprising is when we see on television the day before yesterday, that the secretary of state in this ministry comes down with the left hand of the author or the leader of this group. So, talking through the media, instead of sitting together and talking about such a difficult project, saw where it came from and how to move on. I have nothing against the strategic world and its members, although I must say that I do not have the most credible statement - although everyone has the freedom to say what he wants - but to sell prescriptions for very cheap and untested medicines or even medicines that have proved to be ineffective in other countries, or even with very harmful side effects, etc. - that I don't go into detail. I would like to ask the Minister and propose that we get information as soon as possible in this National Assembly, if not in plenary, to the Committee on Finance, where we can also discuss where everything has happened, how it intends to proceed and how it can actually come to the proposal for a comprehensive reform and the tax system and parallel reforms, which have also been mentioned, which are a condition that a comprehensive and effective reform can be carried out successfully, both from an economic and social point of view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u286	Thank you very much. For the debate, I invite Mr Magi, Mr Magi. Squeezing.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u287	Again with the reasons. The basic idea of the bill was that, given that you wrote in the coalition contract that you would spend between 160 and 360 additional billion, you would ensure and establish conditions that would force you to save, which is otherwise enshrined in all pre-election programmes of political parties and all the pre-election programmes of New Slovenia, SDS, even the resolution adopted in Portorož, talked about improving the tax environment and reducing the costs for medium and small enterprises. And to support such a tax environment that will be consistent with the Lisbon objectives. If you are going to listen to Mr Damjan, who is a candidate for a minister who will coordinate the Lisbon strategy, and that is exactly what needs to be done - accelerate employment. How do we do that? By reducing the cost for those who create the highest added value, these are those who have high wages and we tax them with taxes on paid wages. Therefore, it is logical: if not, the military cannot take, even Janšev, the proposal to reduce the revenue of the budget in order to avoid inadequate spending, as has already been the case in the past weeks when the budget is adopted. That is why our proposal is not balionic, but is consistent with all that we have been doing over the past ten years. Since the introduction of this tax in reducing the rate of contribution, we have accelerated economic growth and, last year, in 2004, we have actually decreased by raising the scale. Therefore, we regret that you fail to do so by the party who, during the elections, also in the so-called Mrkaič programme, talked about decommissioning the economy. Obviously, that won't happen until the next election. Thank you very much for being able to discuss this today, because, of course, we have not been able to say anything clever about taxes in this National Assembly in seven months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u288	Thank you very much. The last one to be tabled for discussion is the Member of Parliament - which is failing. The minister's not here? Will you do it? [[No, no, ……]] Then I conclude the debate. There's been too much interruption today because we've been waiting for government representatives. Since the time for discussion has not yet passed - we have 39 minutes left if I can round - I ask, does anyone else wish to discuss it on the basis of Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure? Thank you very much. I'll read it, and please correct me if I let anyone go. [[I will tell the debaters without academic titles and other embellishments to move faster]] : Pecan, Rezman, Veršnik, Pojbič, Ficko, Horvat, Squeakl, Lachovnik, Janc and Hvauc. That means three minutes each. Looks like it's a perfect list. So I'd like to take the floor with you, Mrs. Bredo Pecan.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u289	Thank you very much. I'm glad I got to the word again. Here I am joining my colleague, Ferri Horvati, not only because my colleague is in the parliamentary group, but because I think that it is right in the field of strategic development of the country that one of the people knows about it. In fact, I believe that the subject of tax reform is a topic that is important for the entire national assembly, for all parties and for all people in Slovenia, however we take it. Not only those who are citizens, but also those who are permanent residents, because they cover all of us who pay taxes. And taxes are also paid by residents of Slovenia who have a permanent residence and do not have citizenship; this is to be known. That's why I think it's a topic where we shouldn't share. Where cooperation and strength are needed, in order to reach such a tax policy, which will be development-oriented, which will enable employment and, above all, make it possible for a decent life, a person worth living for all those living in Slovenia. I think it's a topic, a goal that we should all be interested in. She will say something else, regardless of the fact that the opposition party has proposed this law, but the content of this law or, I will say, perhaps behind this law, the whole tax reform is so important that it is sad that the Assembly Hall is as empty as it is. I don't think that's a topic you could say, like the question of the Members, when at the end, when there's no TV, the hall is occupied in three, four places, like if, what do we care about, what they ask. I think that these are such important decisions, and it is so important for all of us that we should contribute to each of our own behaviour and knowledge, whether we are experts or not. That is why I invite such a government, in particular the Minister of Finance, who, as I have understood so far, is a patient and broad man, and of course also all those who are here in the National Assembly, and all those experts who are very much now discussing tax reform to do this together. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] , with common powers. [[...]] I expect all of us to speak in the autumn, not only on the Committee on Economics and Finance, but I would like to be there, and I would also like to speak in the autumn. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u290	Your time is up, Mrs. Pecanova. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u291	I'd love to be a part of this. [[....]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u292	Thank you. My word to Mr. Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u293	Thank you very much. I am not so interested in this varied political expression either on the one hand or on the other, I am more interested in serious debates about serious concerns. But since I'm not an economist, I just don't hope that what the proponent wrote will come so automatically and surely - these positive effects. It seems to me that with these positive effects that are offered, it is as well as with the sponges that have been inserted. The more you want to catch her, the more you get away. That's why I wouldn't put my hand in the fire. I'm asking if this really happened, I would immediately have some effects on the financial salary, because there would still be a large cash flow that would be paid off and I wonder where this cash flow would go. How would we ensure that this would not go into consumption? How would we ensure that this would not stimulate inflation? How would we ensure that there are no negative consequences regarding what we are obliged to do to the EU visa? When would we be able to implement all these new technologies that we're talking about? When would we build or create these new jobs, and when would we begin to produce these effects? So there's a whole series of questions that the non-economics are asking us by some common sense logic, and I don't think they're too much. And since these answers were not in the offered materials - there were only promises, I would say, some kind of pigeons on the roof - we cannot simply believe these promises. Since some such statements have already been made today, I am joining them. Now is the time for us to really cooperate, all those who are willing to contribute and who can contribute to faster development, because now is not the time for mutual vision.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u294	Thank you very much. Mr Veršnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u295	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The aim of the proposal that we are considering today is to stimulate the government, of course if we take the matter well. But if not, then what I've already said in the first place is to plant a mine to the government. We were talking about a demagogic performance by two professors. I had a feeling I was in an economics school in my first year. If the matter is as simple as it has been said by both honourable gentlemen, I am surprised that they did not do so at least last year before the elections, and I am sure they would have obtained a significantly better result. I am pleased that this debate has also brought some well-intentioned views on the tax issue, and I am pleased that these well-intentioned views came from the opposition sides, but unfortunately not from the lecturer. I simply couldn’t believe him because he laughed while he was talking and thus turned away that part of the purpose that I had to listen to him. The government, I'm sure, is aware of this problem. The easiest thing, the most popular thing is to cut taxes. That's clear to everyone. I am also convinced that it is not necessary to wonder how the government and the Minister of Finance will fulfill their promises and systematically resolve the problem of pay taxes; how will they do so, leave it to them. But let them work in peace if you don't want to help them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u296	Thank you very much. Mr Pojbich is next. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Ficko.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u297	Thank you very much. Mr Vice-President, I hope that you will not judge me from this place on the basis of my debate that I do not understand anything because of the lack of knowledge that you have previously evaluated us in the debate on the law on courts. From this place it was - back then. I feel in the skin of the opposition, i.e. the proposaler, as I sometimes feel in the skin of the coalition, when one of the coalition MPs bounces away with his position - I refer to how constructive Mrs Pecanova and Mr Horvat today discussed a concrete proposal for a law that really assessed the need to change legislation in this area, but they did, at least Mrs Pecanova was hoping to admit that it was a provocative move of the opposition, which she must otherwise support because it came from the opposition side, but she does not believe that the matter could go into a further procedure. I also agree that it is necessary to address the subject as soon as possible in the National Assembly, but I am of course convinced that the government also agrees and that it is taking steps that will lead to such concrete proposals as have been mentioned today by the opposition, which I can rightly call a constructive opposition, just as the President of the Liberal Democracy has promised how constructive the opposition will be to this government. So, I expect that the government will come as soon as possible with a concrete proposal on this subject as we now consider it, and then I expect broad support from the constructive opposition on my right and from my left. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u298	Thank you very much. Allow me to warn you not to mix my role as a Member and Vice-President. As a Member, of course, I have the right to express my opinion as each of you. However, when I am Vice-President, I am completely neutral, and I also think that in my debate as a Member I have not been offensive to any of them, I have merely responded to similar interpretations of others. It's Mr. Croat who's not here. Then it's mag. Squeak.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u299	Thank you very much. My smile is not for individuals, but for the absurdity of the situation this week. We have made some very good moves this week, but by the way, we've spent as much as we could with what we're proposing. Second of all, I'm not a professor. My colleague is a professor, I'm not. However, in the past, I have dealt very much with public finances and a key issue that has changed in the trend of Slovenian public finances - you can see on the Ministry of Finance's website - is that for the first time in 10 years of history in 2005 the tax on profits exceeded the tax on the payroll because, of course, the tax on the income of legal persons or the tax on income is actually more robust. Or, if you want, that highly criticised tax reform has brought additional 60 billion revenue to the Republic of Slovenia, which, of course, you have successfully spent in the balance sheet. Another time. We've done this before, what some of you said, why we didn't do it. We, by changing the tax on the payroll and by raising the scale, together with the income, in the 2005 budget, had a static loss of income of 30 billion. This is why even the Strategic Economic Council, until it has learned this, has even proposed in December to freeze the implementation of the tax reform. Therefore, of course, the situation in the economy is different, because after the privatisation has been completed and after the tax has been reduced, the corporate income tax is becoming increasingly strong and, of course, it is time to abolish the tax on the payroll. I said before that we want to help because we have been waiting for 14 days, whether Mr. future Minister for Development, Mr Damjan, will succeed in writing this law and then we wrote it with a trainee in the parliamentary group and some colleagues. And the marriage is before you, it's worth stretching for four years, and the minister can do what he wants with it, of course, because obviously we've been waiting a long time for tax reform. We do not want to wait for Godot, we want to propose to the coalition what kind of law, which would, however, accelerate economic growth in this mandate, because it will reduce labour taxation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u300	Thank you, Mr. Squeakle. It's Dr. Lakhovnik's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u301	Thank you very much. Dear Members. It is obvious that the Minister of Finance, who is not here, is not at least in his place, is clearly permutated - in short, he has obviously not even read what the financial effects of this law are. The bill nicely states that 125 billion tolars are actually collected by the State with this tax, but of course it should be borne in mind that it also pays this tax for public servants at the same time, and it states: in 2006, 62 and a half billion tolars fall out, the same as in 2007. In no way would the support of this law jeopardize our position in the European exchange rate system, rather than the introduction of the euro, even more. Support for this tax would increase the competitiveness of our economy, which we see as a significant pedestrian in 2005. Some of you today have wondered why this would have such a positive effect on economic growth that you wonder Yes, I don't know why you're surprised at this, simply because you would be burdened mainly by industries and companies that generate high added value. [[...]] Of course, we are counting on these tax savings to invest in development, which would undoubtedly have beneficial, positive effects. Last but not least, this is also the essence of tax reform, which is being prepared - is said to be. I'm saying it's because the Minister of Finance says one thing, his Secretary of State speaks another. There are two government groups, one doesn't know which is now the one that this government still supports and so on. So it's all just one big mess. If we wait for the tax reform to be carried out by this government, and they have already openly said that the underlying tax reform will be somewhere after 2008 in the next mandate, if they do, of course, we will be waiting very long, and economic growth will continue to decline. And if this year is at least 40% lower than it was last year, we can ask ourselves how this affects employment. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] It certainly has negative effects. [[...]] And this will also have consequences for the state budget. It is therefore time for this government and this coalition to act to finally support the law that is constructive, proposed by the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia because it wants to act constructively and support the positive actions of the government. Especially those measures that are not and which would be necessary. That's why I'm expecting [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] That the MPs and members of the coalition will support this law. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u302	Thank you, Mr. Lakhovnik. Mr. Janc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u303	Thank you very much, Mr President, once again. I think that, if anything is good, it is certainly good for today's bill to develop a very interesting debate in the National Assembly on a subject on which there has not yet been a lot of speech in this House. Economy, Slovenian economy. And this is the one that I should be much more talking about and coming to this national assembly with such and different proposals as to how to be more economic-friendly, how to enable this economy to develop further. I come from a region where a labour-intensive industry is dying, where textiles are moving to China, where many unemployed workers between the ages of 40 and 50 have no prospects for new jobs in this area. Therefore, this concern, which has been debated between Members and Members today, is one very positive one that will still need to be here - whether there will be tax reform or some other measure that will try to relieve the Slovenian economy, thus also, of course, the employer to the employee and, of course, try to do so also by this measure, thereby allowing employment, increased employment in the Slovenian economy. For for me the story of success can only be a successful Slovenian economy. All that goes on is what comes to our salaries, to the public sector, to public spending. This has also been discussed in today's debate, the public sector is too large, too demanding, with too much pay and too little efficiency and, of course, towards the economy, when calls arise, such and different, in the public sector or in the economy, the ratio is 1 to 20. It is abnormal for everyone to rush and run and want a job in the public sector. Of course, better pay, more security, and in the economy low wages and, of course, less security. And that's the wrong world if you ask me. That is why it would be right for us to speak here in these debates, in this place. I believe that the government is aware of this situation and that it will also come with concrete cases to the National Assembly, so that we can discuss this work further. For these are the darkness that must have a special place here too. I think that the government, together with the finance ministry, will record this debate today once again and, of course, will come as soon as possible both with tax reform and with some other measure to the benefit of a more favourable country to the Slovenian economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u304	Thank you, Mr. Janz. Mr Hwauc has the floor. Mr. Hwauc, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u305	Thank you very much, Mr President. I like happy people and those who have smiles on their faces, but I distinguish between smiling and smiling. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] in general, it applies to all. [[...]] One more thing I'd like to say about why I don't think this proposal is constructive. Look, the marriage has been opened three times, in 1996, 2000 and 2004, it's last year. Why was this change not made if it has only positive effects and does not bring any problems? Yes, the law was not adopted or amended. Well, that just confirms that there is something else behind it, not some kind of well - intentionedness. In the final stage, some who also discussed here from the opposition gathered so much courage and acknowledged that it was a provocative move by the opposition party and I congratulate them on this courage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u306	Thank you, Mr. Hwauc. This concludes the list of additional debaters, and Mr Minister has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u307	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I followed this debate with interest. Mr. Chairman, does the government have five more minutes or not? I can see here on the program for five minutes by the government, please, if you'll clear that up.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u308	Three minutes, just like the rest of them.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u309	Thank you very much. First of all, I'd like to say hi to certain things.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u310	Excuse me, Mr. Secretary called, not here at the time, but he called me when I went to the pay phone. And if you'll excuse me, I think he's been asked so many questions that we can give the minister three minutes. Here you go, Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u311	Chairman, procedurally. Of course we'll allow the minister to speak, but procedurally. Mr. Minister, the government hasn't called in the rest of the time. The Minister was not in the Chamber when he was available, so his time remained and he was divided among the other Members. There was no minister and he didn't come forward among the ones your Vice-President shared the rest of the time. Now it would be right to divide the remaining time for discussion into all those we wish to apply for, and give the Minister a word. But I will not complicate, absolutely, give the minister as much time as he needs, but it is not right for the Minister to report to you separately [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u312	And what's the procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u313	Only that you respect the rules of procedure, but I agree that we are voting on giving the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u314	Does anyone object to Mr. Minister speaking? Nobody. Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u315	Thank you very much, Mr President, and thank you to this national understanding assembly and the opportunity to address and answer some of the questions that have been raised here. First of all, I would like to say that I have indeed stated in my introductory words the first surprise that this proposal has been presented at all. On the other hand, I have also concluded with these words that the professional services of the Ministry of Finance are also considering the possibility of phasing out this law. Why? We are well aware and share with you all who have expressed here today your views that this law is indeed an anomaly in our tax system and that we must sooner or later - I hope that it will be removed as soon as possible. The consequences of such a removal are certainly positive in the long term for the development of our economy and also for the better transparency of the overall tax system. In this sense, I hope that we will also be able at this time, which has already been announced, when we will come to this national assembly with proposals. This is not the first time, I hope that many of us remember that in this national assembly we have already committed ourselves to presenting certain reforms in the second half of the year, namely on these three laws that were discussed in the previous term, and other certain things, and above all will be the greatest emphasis on the tax procedure and the simplification of the system as such. I have said this several times, and now I can say it again. It is true that certain information appears in the Slovenian media area in recent days regarding the progress of this work. The preparation of any change in tax legislation is true, as many of you have already mentioned, very difficult. In this area, the Commission, appointed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on 13 January, is working on my proposal. I'd like to thank all the members of this committee from here, because they were all volunteering and preparing very, very, very much, I'd say, a piece of furniture for further work. That their proposals were needed and still needed [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] in open cases, quantify is a fact. [[...]] And this is what the Ministry of Finance's professional services are currently working on. As for the debate in our broader space on the single tax rate, which you have also heard today, I also agree with the opposition's voices that this is a positive debate [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u316	Mr. Minister, I'd like you to conclude. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u317	I have mentioned this several times before that it is imperative that we face such issues in our society and that public debate on this or any other solution is very important and constructive in the long term. I'd be done with that, if you'll excuse me, for a few more seconds. We must all be aware of what we have already stated in this space and everywhere, and this is that we are living in a very special period, a period in which Slovenia has committed itself to achieving certain objectives concerning its macro-economics and preparations for the adoption of the euro. That this is a framework within which we must act, which makes all our work conditional, also changes as regards Slovenian taxes. Therefore, the proposal we are working on must be expected to be neutral or as neutral as possible in its essence as regards revenue or revenue implications. That's the key. At this moment, you are Slovenia [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u318	Mr. Secretary, time's up.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u319	I know. Thank you very much. In fact, Slovenia cannot afford to have a higher drop in tax revenues and co-financing of public spending over the next 12 to 18 months. These are the frameworks in which we work. It is to be expected in the early autumn that these proposals will also be sent to this National Assembly. I'd be done with it. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u320	Just a sentence, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u321	That it is formal anywhere in the world that such things are not debated through the media. [[...]] This is a serious job that also requires serious approaches, not making fun of the public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u322	Thank you, Minister. This concludes the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the meeting's timing, decide today in the context of the vote, which will begin at 7.45 p.m. This concludes this agenda item. I'm adjourning the assembly session, which we're going to continue three quarters to eight.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u323	Dear Members and honourable Members! We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. We continue to break the 18th item of the agenda - by addressing the special report on the issue of "deleted" in the annual reports of the Ombudsman. Before we go to the vote, I ask Members and Members to check the functioning of the voting apparatus [[The orange light must burn on the right side of the card inserted]] . I see the voting devices are working. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a recommendation to a special report on the issue deleted in the Ombudsman's annual reports, which reads: "The government and the competent ministries should, in view of the Ombudsman's findings, do everything necessary to regulate the situation in the System Law on the Deleted." Mrs. Potrata, you have the floor to explain your voice. Or on behalf of the Group of Members?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u324	On behalf of the Group of Members. The Group of Social Democrats will support the proposed recommendation prepared by the Commission on Petitions and Human Rights and Equal Opportunities for the National Assembly. This is not the first report to be discussed in relation to deleted reports by the Ombudsman. In addition to our domestic report, our Slovenian Ombudsman, at least some reports have been available over the last two years to highlight the unresolved problem. Finally, information from the State Department on the state of human rights in Slovenia was discussed at the 4th meeting of the Taiste Commission, which also points to an inadequately resolved problem. Etri's reports are well known, and the warnings of the Commissioner for Human Rights at the Council of Europe are known. It will be necessary to wait for what the Commissioner for Human Rights of the Council of Europe has to say about the implementation of the warnings or recommendations he has given to the country of Slovenia regarding the deleted. This is just a few arguments in support of the proposal for a recommendation that speaks about what the Commission has unanimously proposed, although some would not like to see this now that it has been written. Therefore, let those who feel that this recommendation is harmful propose an amendment to the recommendation, which they could also do in the prescribed procedure. However, they preferred to point out everything else than that the recommendation was regularly prepared and adopted. We will therefore support the proposed recommendation by the Social Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u325	Thank you, Mrs. Patrati, Mr. Rupar. You have the floor. Mrs. Shirca, or on behalf of the House of Representatives?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u326	On behalf of the House, thank you very much. In today’s debate, we have sometimes witnessed mockery from the rule of law. We have not heard how the government will address the issue of unlawfully deleted persons to whom the Ombudsman's report points. In his opening statement, the Minister said he did not know how he was going to handle it, as he mentioned both the constitutional and the so-called ordinary law. And let me once again say that the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia does not support any solution that would not be in accordance with a constitutional decision. We will support the Commission's conclusion, as presented, and, of course, also call on the government below and support the government further in order to implement it. Yesterday, the lynching of an institution that prevents corruption and customerism began. Why? To let her go. Today you have lynched the Ombudsman's institution, which points to respect for the rule of law and human rights. Why? Because the new government no longer respects her. Today we heard an attack on the Ombudsman in this room. Why? Because he's talking about the symptoms of this society. We've heard or heard from these types that the guardian is a fool, I've heard that he's "so-called" a guardian, because he's not a guardian at all, because he's just a subjective judge, that's what was said. Today you have also called for the withdrawal of the Ombudsman, you have called for the resignation of someone who has been appointed in this room. You can also call for a change to the Constitution and for the deletion of the chapter on respect for human rights, or for a change, or for a European Constitution which speaks of respect for human rights. But the problems can't be solved. It's just that the downtrodden always comes back. In short, we will support the committee's conclusion, it can awaken a government that is not concerned about this problem. It doesn't matter now that she's out of the dark before the elections. When she stigmatized the wiped out as thieves, bounty hunters, traitors, sloths and uselesss. Today, too, they have been spoken of sadly in this way.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u327	Thank you, Mrs. Shirci. Mr Jelinčič also spoke in explanation of vote, or on behalf of the Member of Parliament? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u328	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In the Slovenian National Party and in the Group of Members, we consider that there are no deleted, especially those unlawfully deleted in Slovenia. There are only people who did not respect existing laws and then double options when they could arrange their status: either as citizens or as foreigners who live in Slovenia. It is the political structure of two parties who wanted to win the election vote and took action too late, but in particular in the wrong way, so that the Slovenian public missed and therefore did not give them any more votes in the elections. Again, there are no deletions in Slovenia. It is true that some people, where mistakes have been made, have to be dealt with on a case-by-case basis, but not for long and to give and give them everything, even citizenship, so now we have people who have fought with machine guns in southern areas and today get Slovenian citizenship. They'll probably get more pensions. If there were any other authority, I'm sure they'd get a pension, now I don't think they will. Some say that the Ombudsman's institution was lynched in the debate. I don't know what kind of institution is this, which is the main purpose or main purpose of the summit, which, just his wages, he was most concerned about and hurt, why he would lower his salary when he had to have, not as much as he got, but a little bit more money. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u329	Mr. Jelinčič, we're talking about deleted issues.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u330	Yes, presented by the Ombudsman, who needs to show what kind of person he is, in fact, I do not think he is the guardian of Slovenian human rights, but I do not know some imaginary ones. [[...]] That's why I don't think it would be right for you to step down. It should be abandoned and put on a person who will truly represent the Ombudsman of those unemployed, those with low incomes, those without housing, those without social assistance and without social support. As long as he doesn't, he won't get our support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u331	Thank you, Mr. Jelinčich. We will vote on the Commission's recommendation. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 72 Members and Members present. 29 votes against 43. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 43.]] I note that the proposed recommendation is not accepted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 9th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Employment Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled. We will first vote on the amendment of Article 7 of the Social Democrats' Group. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 72 Members and Members present, 26 votes against 45. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the parliamentary groups of the Slovenian Democratic Party, New Slovenia, the Slovenian People's Party and the Democratic Party of Pensioners to Article 13. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 71 Members and Members present, voted for by 48 votes to 16. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 16.]] I take it that the proposed amendment has been adopted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted the amendment to Article 13 of the amended bill. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table an amendment to this article? [[No, no, ……]] Then I find that no amendments were tabled in the third reading. On the basis of Rule 140, paragraph 5, of the Rules of Procedure, I inform you that the legislature and the Government have not informed me that the law on the grounds of the amendments adopted would not be harmonised. So we are moving on to a decision on the law. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 72 Members and Members present, 62 votes against 1. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue to break the 12th item of the agenda - this is by considering the proposal for a law amending the Law on Courts. We continue with the second reading, this is the decision on the amendment tabled. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of Article 6 of the Social Democrats Group. Mrs. Pečan, explanation of vote or on behalf of the Group of Members? First of all, Kumer on behalf of the Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u332	Thank you. Members and Members of the Social Democrats will not support the amendment of the Law on Courts because we predict that the coalition will not support this amendment. The new law is another school case and a concrete illustration when the executive authority allows itself to fall into the constitutionally guaranteed independence of the judiciary. The limited or even extinct role of the Council of Justice is this concrete intervention. To make the irony even greater, the advocates of this novel even claim and mark this step to strengthen the power and role of the judiciary. Of course, the truth is completely different. Syntagma from the coalition agreement on political compatibility in all key areas, from economy, education, state administrations and the media to the judiciary has become a dangerous coalition club. Unfortunately, there is no argument against this scourge, nor does the expert argument. When this tour of these benches is over and when this staff cleaning will settle, it is difficult to predict, because it started with the law on public servants, the intermediate station was the law on RTV, yesterday we had an opportunity in the law on corruption, today we have the law on the judiciary, next month we will get health legislation and so on. All changes to these laws are and are intended to achieve political compatibility, to perform staff cleaning where this compatibility is not ensured. That's the whole truth. And such a way and such a method of managing and running the country that voters and voters have entrusted to you is not good and will not end well. As a result, the Members of the Social Democrats and the Social Democrats will not support this proposal for a new law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u333	Thank you, Mr. Kumer. Mrs. Roach, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u334	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I will support this amendment, but I would like to justify what leads me to it. The fact is that today we have heard from your kind dear members of the coalition that there are two cases where the procedure for appointing the President of the Court or two Presidents of the Courts is already under way and when this law is amended, we will have to follow a new procedure. It is said that it will be necessary for the Council of Justice to give to the Minister the names of all candidates who have applied, regardless of whether they meet the professional criteria that they may be the President of the Court. In particular, I know that there were four candidates or candidates and that one of them did not meet the professional criteria. The most basic criterion, of course, was not that of a student, as we have heard today, that even a student could be a candidate for the President of the Court, but was fulfilling those formal criteria. However, there are other criteria that the judiciary certainly knows well enough and knows what is happening to the President of the Court of Justice or not. Because I know that there are two concrete cases and because I know that the first article provides for the election of the Presidents of the Court, not by quality, not by profession, not by leadership, but by our own or not, in the style of the leader of the former Christian democracy, it doesn't matter what he knows, what matters is that he is ours, of course, I will support the amendment and also vote against the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u335	Thank you, Mrs. Pecans. Mrs. Kucler.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u336	Thank you very much. We will not support the amendment. Otherwise, we have been going through a long and thorough debate on why we will not support the amendment and why we support the proposed amendments and amendments to the law. The changes preserve the same status as before in the judiciary. He is still the one who, in the first stage, decides on the basis of criteria under the Judicial Service Act, which I also stated during the debate and would not repeat them. In the second phase, the President of the Court is appointed by the Minister, as he is now. All the ministers and ministers so far have appointed the Presidents of the Courts on the basis of the same procedure. The only difference is that the judiciary will not be limited to proposing a maximum of three candidates. If he finds that these candidates have the same references, both under the professional criteria and the management, management criteria, more than four, five, he will be able to select them and propose them to the minister. He can only propose one, only two, and so it has been so far. Therefore, we do not accept in any way these allegations that this is an infringement of the executive branch of power into the judicial branch of power. A certain degree of influence is determined by the existing legislation, as it is said, by stipulating that the Minister appoints the President of the Court and also has certain functions relating to the supervision of judicial administration in the judiciary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u337	Thank you, Mrs. Kucleers. Mrs. Bebler, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u338	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am so glad that your assistant finally warned you that I had already applied for the floor. Perhaps your glasses, or, more specifically, your right - eyed glasses, are wrong. [[The ad in the hall.]] No, I'm not going to apologize for raising my hand in time, and it didn't happen the first time, but at least the third time, the fourth time, the fifth time. Just as the Minister of Justice will be at his disposal [[...]] [[Back-up advertising.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u339	Please! Only Mrs. Bebler has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u340	to choose. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u341	Here you go, Mrs. Bebler.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u342	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The LDS Group will support this amendment of the Social Democrats. The fundamental principle of the rule of law is that procedures initiated under certain rules are also terminated under these rules. And the normal measure of good taste is that such rules do not change in the middle of the game. That is why, of course, we support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u343	Thank you, Mrs. Bebler. Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u344	Thank you for your word. Mrs Kucler's colleague already said that we will not support this amendment, nor will we. I would suggest to Mr Kumer and Mrs Pečanov that you may start taking the B-complex and calming your nerves and stop with the insults they are always using.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u345	Thank you, Mr. Sok. We are voting on the amendment tabled by the parliamentary group of Social Democrats to Article 6. We're voting. The vote is under way. 69 Members and Members are present. There were 25 votes against 43. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendment and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill in the context of a reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments were adopted in the second reading to the amended proposal, the third reading of the amendments cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the law. In doing so, I inform you that the legislature or the government has not informed me that the law would be inconsistent. Mr. Pavlich, please. Or on behalf of the Group of Members?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u346	No, just in yours. Thank you, President, for your word. I will not support the law for the reasons I have already stated in detail, but only briefly: because of the interference with the jurisdiction of the judiciary and the opening of the door to the politicisation of the judiciary and the impact of the policy on the personnel. My colleague Mojca likes to use the word "transference." And I'm going to explain to my junior lawyer what I'm going to explain to my students. Or is it a judicial council composed of six top experts, professors of law, lawyers and other lawyers, pardons, of five and six judges. So, "creme work creme" of our legal encounter and it is against this change whether the Slovenian Judicial Society, which includes virtually all the judges, from the district to the supreme, is probably also a little familiar with law. Is that a hoax? Because I'm done, I'm going to vote against it. Regrets God that we are changing what has worked so well so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u347	Thank you, Mr. Pavlich. Mrs. Potrata, please. On behalf of the delegation?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u348	Thank you for saying so, Mr President. No, my fellow Member, Dusan Kumer, has already spoken on behalf of the House of Representatives. I'll explain my voice. I'm afraid that in this atmosphere, which sometimes approaches the atmosphere on the island, what Dusan Kumer said was why we don't support this change. In the previous term, I have followed with great interest everything that has happened in the judiciary, and I thought that those who were concerned about the situation in the judiciary were serious when they said that a more effective, quality trial should be ensured and that the full independence of this branch of government should be ensured. What we have done today is bad, and although I am not a lawyer, I can learn from those who really know each other. And they convinced me that what we were doing was bad. That is why, like my fellow Members and my colleague, I will vote against this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u349	Thank you, Mrs. Patrati. Mrs. Bebler.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u350	Thank you very much, Mr President. On behalf of the LDS Club, I assure you that we will not support this proposal. The representative of the Judicial Council on the Labour Authority said that the Council of Justice was shocked to learn of this amendment to the Law. That's weird. The judiciary, his representative on the work force, said that they were in no way in agreement with this novel and that, unlike previous times, they were not even invited to discuss and were not invited to express their views on what they thought about such a change of law. Both point out that the regulation so far, that the law so far did not cause any problems in practice and did not consider it necessary to amend it in this part. The professional public has also told their story if you have read articles in some professional media as well. Therefore, there is no reason for our Group to support such motives and the manner in which the ruling coalition has chosen to try to politicise the judiciary step by step, a step by step the executive branch of power is trying to silence and take a decision in the judiciary. Our Group of Members will by no means advocate such a procedure and such a purpose. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u351	Thank you, Mrs. Bebler. Here you go, Mr. Bones.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u352	Thank you very much. I will support the law mainly for the reason that I have already stated it twice today. I think that this improvement is more clearly bordering the executive, judicial and legislative branches of power. The argument we are talking about is very surprising to me at all by the top legal experts. If I understood correctly, I understand, I understand as a Member, if the judiciary and the judiciary, if I agreed to the law, then we would have a political backdrop to support such a law. However, because they disagree, we, as the legislative branch of power, are illegal to support this. Mr. Pavlich, that's how I understood you. And if I understand correctly, there is a clear division in Slovenia between the legislative, judicial and executive branches of power. And if we adopt such a law, even if a judicial society or a judicial council disagrees, there is nothing wrong with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u353	Thank you, Mr. Bones. There's no replica in the explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u354	I would like to state procedurally that the explanation is not intended for controversy.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u355	Mr. Kumer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u356	I'm not going to support this marriage, but I'd like to explain or consider some symptoms for this B complex that I've been listening to for the last two days here in this room. Even in the event of this depoliticisation or independence, independence. If you will recall, yesterday there was a debate on the anti-corruption commission where the coalition claimed and swore that this independence is conditional on having a multilaterally constituted committee in this House and that independence is more assured than having a single state authority outside this political authority. In the case of the RTV Act, the same coalition, these same people introduce into law a discretionary article which prohibits these same Members and these political groups. It's a symptom, so let's think about whether it's a B-complex or a C-complex or a C-complex, like I said, a tick, but a borelia is a very dangerous disease. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u357	Thank you, Mr. Kumer. Mr. Lakhovnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u358	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members! I will not support this law, although I must admit that it is an extremely consistent, consistent law with a different government policy. At first, you politically intervened in public administration, then in public broadcasting, in the economy, and now you continue to do so in the judiciary. Of course, I do not support it and I will vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u359	Thank you, Mr. Lakhovnik. Mr. Jelinčich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u360	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Yeah, it's bad if the order starts. That's clear. But once it had to start working, it started to work. And it's bad if some people were used to doing what they wanted. And despite being a little familiar with the law, as some have said, or if the atmosphere was like that of the nincompoops, as others have said. The fact is that the current law has indeed not caused problems, but has not caused problems for the judges, but has certainly caused problems for the accused, the accused and the convicted and the lawyers, for sure. The fact is, in our case-law, it has indeed been judged in a very strange way and I am sure that now it will start with a considerable number of various supervisory complaints and claims to protect legality. I don't know what happens then. It will turn out that the present marriage was bad and that it really did not cause problems just and only to the judges and everyone else.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u361	Thank you, Mr. Jelinčich. Mr. Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u362	Thank you very much. I will vote against the law because I am in favour of making order, but I want the constitutional order to be respected first. But the change of order when the constitution is adopted is anarchy. We in this Chamber are doing this very well in this mandate. We, Members and Members of Parliament. Because Members and Members of this National Assembly are not aware that there are limitations in the adopted Constitution, and this is a typical case. And let me tell you that, of course, there is another important article of the Constitution that we are going to violate today, this is the third paragraph where we have transferred part of our legal sovereignty to the European legal order. And if this law had been adopted before I entered the European Union, the European Union would have pulled the brakes, just as it would have pulled it, or it could have drawn it for Bulgaria and Romania, because this is no longer respect for the rule of law. And in this context, in addition to the abolition of the independence of the budget control office, through the amendment of the law on public servants, the announced abolition of the anti-corruption commission, all [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] political compatibility, the new authority intervenes and intervenes in the judiciary. [[...]] And of course this is no longer the rule of law, so I am in line, but first take account of the constitutional order.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u363	Thank you, Mr. Squeakle. Mr. Yuri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u364	Thank you, President. I'll vote against the law, too. As soon as we set up a commission to oversee the work of the prosecution, I announced that we would enter a territory that is not ours to interfere with the sovereignty and autonomy of another branch of power step by step. Today is a further step, perhaps we are still awaiting the adjournment of the judicial council and the appointment of a special commission to carry out its duties. All [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u365	Please, only Mr. Yuri has the floor. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u366	We are expected in this hall, but it will be necessary to inform the foreign public of what is happening in our home sooner or later. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u367	Thank you, Mr. Yuri. Go ahead, Mr. Gulic.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u368	Dear President! Dear fellows and fellows! I will vote against this law, just as I will vote against all the laws that will mix different authorities in Slovenia, which will oppose personal freedom, which will establish "Disciplin und Ordnung" in any way that will lead this country back into the single party system.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u369	Thank you, Mr. Gulic. Mr. Kovacich.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u370	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will support the proposed law, as it removes the discriminatory provision so far and at the same time removes the restriction that the judiciary has had to suffer so far. And this restriction that the judiciary has suffered so far was because the judiciary, even if it wanted to propose and had more than three excellent candidates at its disposal, could not do so. That's why I think this marriage is welcome, and I'll be happy to support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u371	Thank you, Mr. Kovacich. We will vote on the law. We're voting. The vote is under way. 71 Members and Members are present. 45 votes against 26. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 26.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 11th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the proposal for a law supplementing the law on the State Council. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill in the context of a reduced procedure. As no amendment was adopted by the parent working body in the context of the second reading, there is no debate on articles and amendments. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. The vote is under way. 69 Members and Members are present. There were 55 votes against 3. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. They continue to end the 15th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the proposal for a law on the termination of the pay tax and the 2006 tax rate. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for the termination of the law on taxation on paid salaries and the rate of tax for 2006, the first reading, is suitable for further consideration. Mr. Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u372	On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy, I will explain the vote in favour of the proposed decision. We'll support the decision. We will support the conclusion because we have proposed the law in line with the activities of the Liberal Democracy so far in terms of changing the taxation of high wages. Following the introduction of this, the effective rate decreased each year, most recently in 2005. And because of the public financial situation reflected in good revenue flows from legal persons, income, excise duty and value added tax, we believe that it is time to abolish this tax from 2006 and 2007. In explanation of vote, I would not explain the logic behind it, because today we had quite a successful debate on it. It is clearly necessary to have such a debate that we are talking in this House about the pre-election promises of all political parties. All political parties in the Slovenian Parliament, SDS, Nova Slovenija, SLS, SD and Liberal Democracy - only in the DeSUS programme have I not been able to find this - talk about reducing labour taxation. They talk about advocating that we follow a tax environment that will support the development of medium and small enterprises that will support everything that is enshrined in the Lisbon Strategy. We have already said that we have actually proposed the law on the initiative of the new potential Minister for Development, Mr Damjan, when he spoke at a presentation about a single tax rate, where he has very complicatedly proposed what he would do to reduce the tax burden. And there is a suspension in the year, two or three, four years of this period that is ahead of us, of course a much simpler way to effectively reduce the taxation of work. This would accelerate economic growth, which would increase employment and on this basis increase income. Of course, we have also proposed this because it is better that there are no such resources in the 2006 and 2007 budgets than that these resources would be used for the apparent inefficient public consumption that you have been talking about today. We do not do anything but follow the words of the law by acting. But you will deny your previous words by what you have done today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u373	Thank you, Mr. Squeakle. Mrs. Pechanova, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u374	On behalf of the Social Democrats' Group of Members, I say that we will support this law for one essential reason. Because this law is an incentive and a call to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and to the coalition that will take Slovenia into a circle over the next three and a half years, as we have heard the twenty most successful countries, pardons, the ten most successful countries. Without reforms such as tax reform, we will certainly not succeed and therefore we will support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-07-14-SDZ4-Redna-08.ana.u375	Thank you, Mrs. Pecans. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 72 Members and Members present, 24 for whom were voted, 47. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 47.]] I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the proposal is therefore closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item and also interrupt the 8th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m.
