ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the continuation of the 9th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Anton Anderlič, Samo Bevk, Geza Juban, Victory Jelinčič Nobleni, Aurelio Juri from 3 p.m. on, Franz Kangler, Drago Koren, mag. Janez Kramberger, Christian Janc from 4 p.m. on, Dušan Kumer, Alojz Posedel, mag. Borut Saiovic, Villa Trofenik and Janko Weber. You want a procedural question? Please, mag. Robbery.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u2	Yes, Mr. Vice President. In the LDS Group, we propose that the meeting of the National Assembly be suspended in order for the President of the National Assembly to convene a College of the National Assembly on our proposal. We believe that, after what happened in the National Assembly, there is such a situation that a college meeting is urgently needed, that there is an urgent need for discussion and also for decisions on how the National Assembly will continue its meeting. I therefore propose the suspension of the sitting and the appointment of the College of the President of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u3	Okay. I think I can interrupt the meeting of the National Assembly. I may also ask the President for his opinion.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u4	I think that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, a proposal should be put to the vote. But I don't think that's why we have to interrupt the session. The College will still be convened at the request or on the proposal of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u5	Mr. Mag. Robbery, are you satisfied with the answer that the college will be convened and that we will not interrupt the meeting?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u6	Mr Vice-President, I have proposed that we convene a college meeting before continuing.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u7	In accordance with the request of the Ambassador of Magi. I will put this proposal to the vote or to a decision. We will decide that the meeting will be suspended and that the College of the President of the National Assembly will be convened at this time. We're voting. I'm guessing 63 were present. [[?]] Member of the Commission. 18 votes to 43. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 43.]] It's a mag proposal. Robbery's not accepted. We're going to break it down. PERIOD OF THE DAY - TO THE REBALANCE OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA'S BUDGET FOR 2005 At the opening of the extraordinary meeting yesterday, the assembly held an opening presentation by the Minister of Finance and the representative of the home working body and the views of the members of the groups. Therefore, we continue to discuss the individual parts of the proposal for a state budget rebalancing. Let me remind you, as an individual part, that for the first time, the general part of the proposal for a budget rebalancing, secondly, a specific part of the proposal for a budget rebalancing and third time, a plan for the development programmes. Please, do you want procedural? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, I have here an initiative signed by several Members concerning the reference to Monday's follow-up to the extraordinary meeting. And it is opposed to this reference for a simple reason, because Mondays, except when a regular meeting of the National Assembly is convened, are reserved for work in the offices of Members of Parliament and other activities of Members in the field or in the constituencies from which we were elected. For this reason, we expect you to take into account the Institute of the Parliamentary Office and the work on the ground and postpone the 9th extraordinary meeting on Tuesday, as well as the future non-counselling of the National Assembly on Monday, except for those scheduled in the calendar of the part of the National Assembly for this purpose. So we strongly oppose this call and expect the calendar of the National Assembly to be taken into account.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u9	As I understand it, you spoke on behalf of the LDS Group, which opposes the meeting of the National Assembly on Monday, as Monday is reserved for parliamentary work on the ground. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u10	Therefore, on behalf of the LDS Group of Members, the signatories are also members of other political groups.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u11	This proposal, if you allow, would be discussed a little later or decided a little later, but it would be for us to continue this meeting. However, your proposal will be taken into account and this proposal will also be considered, and if not otherwise, probably also in the College of the President of the National Assembly. But allow me to continue my extraordinary session. Please. Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u12	Procedural explanation. Did I understand your message correctly, and today it will only be a debate, not a determination, or will we decide on a single set?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u13	Today, there will be a debate on the individual parts of the national budget's proposal for a rebalancing after three points. After each end point in the discussion of each conceptual point, as I have read them, the first general part of the proposal for a budget rebalancing will be the decision-making process. Is that understandable? Thank you. Please, Mr. Squeakle. Here you go. Procedural?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u14	Yeah. Mr President, what our Member, Mr Slavinac, has said is, of course, something you have said that you will give, that the College of the President of the National Assembly will decide and be informed. Today is Friday afternoon, Members must decide whether or not to notify and cancel the office. That's my first comment. The second point is that you have decided to take a decision after the discussion on individual parts of the budget, please explain how we are going to discuss the general budget today and decide before the Prime Minister presents the proposal for a budget rebalancing. How we will decide, without discussion by the Prime Minister, on the most important issue in the budget, how much revenue there will be, how much expenditure there will be and what a deficit there will be, because you are in fact saying that we will now discuss the general part of the budget and decide on it. For Monday, however, because the Prime Minister is in Brussels today and tomorrow at the European Council, I quote Mr Cukjati, "they would like to place his presentation on Monday at 10 a.m. as they proceed with the consideration of the balance". These two aren't working together. We cannot have a decision today on individual parts of the budget before we hear the introduction of the Prime Minister's presentation, especially because what happened yesterday and today in Brussels - and it is a pity that some Members of the ruling coalition were not there - in the European Parliament, in the European Council - have an important impact on what we are supposed to decide here today. So please, Mr Vice-President, I propose that Mr President of the National Assembly, for two reasons, the first reason is what was said - an insult in the National Assembly; the second reason is that a group of Members is required to take order into account in the National Assembly. Thirdly, if you want, it is how we will decide in the National Rebalancing Assembly without the Prime Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u15	Thank you very much, Mr. Squeakle. Now, two things you've asked, two questions. I didn't give you my word. I figured two things out. First of all, the National Assembly cannot decide what you have said about whether the meeting will take place on Monday or not, it will be decided by the College of the President of the National Assembly and give you its position or answer. The National Assembly cannot decide that. This is about the first question. With regard to the second question, I would tell myself, as I understand it, that I am probably not as expert as you are, not legal or financial, but I would still say the following. The views of the parliamentary groups on the balance were given; this is the first. Secondly, it was precisely said that the Prime Minister could not be present at the meeting of the National Assembly because he was busy; that is another. This is said to be the case, however, we have continued our extraordinary session of the National Rebalancing Assembly and so far there have been no comments. Therefore, as those who now run this session, I find myself in a situation - I will say to the end - when I would like to tell you in the end that everything that is written is also written in the material. That's all I can tell you for a minute. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u16	Look, Mr. Vice President, I understand that this is a complicated matter for you. I am also not a legal expert, but the Rules of Procedure are very clear on this. The problem is that the opening presentation before the decision is given by the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance - I am speaking with you, Mr Vice-President. Look, here's the problem. The problem is that Mr Miran Potrč asked whether we will decide today on the general part of the budget. And you said that we would decide on the general part of the budget. The general part of the budget is a key part of the budget and saying that the Prime Minister will come to talk about putting more money on road infrastructure for 33 million is not exactly what we need the Prime Minister to do. We need the Prime Minister to tell this National Assembly whether the budget is entirely substantively adequate and on this basis Members of the ruling coalition can decide on this. However, if this was agreed on by Gregorčič, during the so-called ruling coalition debate, say so. However, in procedural terms, the Prime Minister should have presented yesterday, if not, at least before the decision is taken, what he thought of the budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u17	For the first time, when I read this, I read that we are not talking about the budget rebalancing and the adoption of the budget balance, but about the proposal. We may have forgotten that this is a general part of the proposal for a budget rebalancing. All the numbers are written down. I speak my mind without talking to anyone or maybe someone telling me what to say. I therefore believe that all the numbers in the material are also written and probably the President cannot change them either. I therefore believe that the correct question was when the decision will be taken in three points after the discussion is concluded. I think that the debate will also show whether it is right to discuss and decide whether or not to do so. That's what I can tell you. I think you're satisfied with the answer, so we're going over the Procedural. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u18	Vice President, I am absolutely not satisfied with the answer. We will propose that when we conclude the debate in general, to stop it, to wait for the Prime Minister, to take into account that Monday is reserved for work in the parliamentary groups, so that a college will be convened and, once the Prime Minister has succeeded, we will listen to him, and I hope we can ask him something, and then we will decide on the general part of the budget. This would be an adjusted proposal from the professional services.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u19	Thank you very much. I agree with that and we can continue our work. We are moving on to the general part of the proposal for a budget rebalancing. Who wants a word? Mr. Mag. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u20	I only have one question to ask the Prime Minister. How does today's debate and yesterday's debate on the European Council affect the Prime Minister's assessment of the draft general budget? I'd like an answer from the Prime Minister. We don't have any other questions. I would therefore suggest that you end the general debate, end the agenda item and when the President presents and responds, and I think that there are conditions for decision-making.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u21	As I have heard, the question is addressed to the Prime Minister, who is not here. That's the first one. Secondly, as I know, this has been notified to me, even in Brussels the whole matter has not yet been completed so that this reply can be given. And thirdly, I agree with your request, but I suggest we proceed with the next item on the program. Here you go, Mr. Skull.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u22	Mr Vice-President, perhaps we are fortunate that at this moment you are leading this session so that we can point to all these things that are prepared at the bottom of acceptability. Mr. Squeakle has asked a question that needs an answer. He set him up for the real one. That's not here. We understand that he is not here, but we do not understand that President Tsukjat insists that this meeting takes place without the National Assembly having all those relevant arguments and information to decide. So far, no state budget or correction of the state budget has been adopted without the Prime Minister's suggestion. It's been such a long time since the bank governor was here. [[...]] [[Advertising.]] Excuse me? [[...]] I apologize for having to answer to those who are not patient to listen to the end and raise their hand. However, our Group's proposal was to convene a college as a result of this lack of readiness. Of course, the rules of procedure give him the opportunity to call it in seven days. I don't understand his stiffness that he doesn't convene a meeting at this point when it would be easier for us to continue all of this work, but it will be done when, I'll say, the gap between us is even greater. The upheaval will not be due to the fact that we defend different positions, the upheaval arises because someone abuses the National Assembly to take decisions without taking all the assumptions for these decisions into account. These are very bad things. That is why I do not see the possibility that we will continue with the next chapter at this time, because then we will come, Vice-President, in contrast to two matters; one is what you said earlier to hold, that was that we would then discuss the general work and then stop the meeting. This was Mr Squill's proposal. If you're just going to have to "eat" your word now, it means we're going to continue with the second, third, and I don't know which section. But the Rules of Procedure will not allow us to return later. Therefore, it seems to me that it is only necessary to cover your breath, to stop this session, to see when we can continue it in a way that there will be no shadow of doubt about our work. That's the only reason I stopped by. Please, what do you say? Mr. Pojibic, tell me what you're interested in, I'll explain it to you right away. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u23	Please, Mr. Skull, finish yours. [[...]] Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u24	I want the work of the National Assembly to run in such a way that there will be no shadow over these procedures, which are not so difficult that they cannot be respected. That is why I think it is also because of what you said earlier that you will break up after the first chapter and that we wait for the Prime Minister's statement that you will keep your word and now stop it. We are lucky or unhappy that there were no more discussions on the first chapter than on one issue.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u25	Thank you very much. This is how I'd answer it. It is true that Mondays are reserved for the work of Members in the field. However, I personally believe that when the programme has such a topic and an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly discussing the budgetary balance, it would probably be right for Monday to be used, even though I very much agree with those who speak about it that Monday should be reserved when there is no such thing. The budget balance is once a year. That's the first thing. The second point is that there has been more than two hours of debate on the subject that we would like to continue today - there was no protest yesterday. An extraordinary session went on. Therefore, if Mr President of the National Assembly does not convene a consultation of the College of the National Assembly, I will have to continue the meeting. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u26	I would like to mention that, of course, we are led by other motives than some parliamentary groups here, in terms of the country's competitiveness and the need to adopt the balance in a timely manner. Yesterday it was clear when we started an extraordinary session to start yesterday, to take advantage of the opportunity and free time available to us yesterday for two hours, even today for at least two hours, to save ourselves or to protect ourselves from the night work that is waiting for us on Monday. I'll tell you again, if we don't exhaust the debate today for at least two hours, then we'll be working on Monday at least ten o'clock or eleven o'clock. If the National Assembly agrees, of course we can suspend the meeting and continue it at 10 a.m. Monday. However, it will certainly continue Monday at 10 a.m., as an extraordinary meeting can be convened at any time, regardless of any parliamentary offices in the field. And it might be good if you put to the vote the proposal to continue the debate now and, of course, we can do without a vote on the first set. I believe that this initiative is a good one, and it may be required that we hear the Prime Minister's opinion or the Prime Minister's opinion in advance before we go to the vote in the first round in order to be able to address the second set, as Mr Squeakl has already said that there is no need for a direct presence of the Prime Minister. I propose that you put to the vote to stop the first set because obviously there is no debate that would now be interesting without a prime minister, and that we move on to the debate and to the consideration of the amendments on the second set. This is this proposal, and then another proposal can be made, namely to briefly suspend the meeting and continue it on Monday at 10 a.m., of course aware of these consequences. But I don't think there would be any problem or tragedy if we didn't deal with the balance once by 10:00 p.m. or 11:00 p.m. That wouldn't be the end of us either.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u27	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Squeakle, please, procedurally?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u28	Mr. Vice President, yes, look, we're coming from [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u29	I'm sorry, I have to interrupt. The President's proposal has been tabled and I must put it to the vote. [[It's a mutual conversation.]] If there is no objection, we would continue with the second and third sets, i.e. the specific part of the budget rebalancing proposal and the development programme plan. We would not treat as some of you have thought, the general part of the proposal for a budget rebalancing, but only the second and third sets. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u30	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In the procedural proposal, I would like to try to sum up what the President, Mr Tuckati, has said. He suggested that [[...]] [[Back-up advertising.]] I'd like to ask my colleague, Bebler, if I can sum it up because she's checking in. He suggested that the general part of the budget balance should be discontinued and that today, as we talked about working until 5 p.m., we begin to address the specific part of the budget balance, which is to say, the treatment of individual amendments to the budget balance. I think I have taken it correctly, and I suggest, Mr Vice-President, that you put this procedural proposal to the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u31	Mr. Bajc [[...]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]] I would ask for peace in the hall! Mr. Bajc, what you said, I just told you. I have made it perfectly clear that I am proposing this. I didn't put it to the vote, but I asked if anyone would mind. And no one would mind. Now you're repeating exactly what I said. I'm adjourning the National Assembly session for five minutes. We'll continue in five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-17-SDZ4-Izredna-09.ana.u32	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, invited ministers and secretaries of state. I am informing you that I am interrupting the 9th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, because it would be wrong to continue work and that there would be disagreements and, taking into account all that has been said so far, we are continuing the meeting on Monday at 10 a.m. Thank you very much.
