ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u1	Good morning, good morning. I ask all Members and Members to take their seats. We will begin with the continuation of the 13th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, I am also launching the 13th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that they are detained and that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Aurelio Juri by 17:00, only Bevk, mag. Milan M. Cvikl, Ljubo Germič, Ferry Horvat, Franz Kangler from 2 p.m. on, Bojan Kontic, Dimitriy Kovacic, Darja Lavtijar Bebler, Rudolf Mogue, Milan Petek, Villa Rezman and Davorin Terčon. We're moving to 2. PERIOD OF THE DAY - A DEFINITIVELY SUBMITTED PROPOSAL OF THE BUDGET OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA FOR 2007 In doing so, I inform you that a total time of debate is foreseen for 5 hours and 30 minutes. The updated draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2007 was submitted to the Council by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and I therefore give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation. Dr. Andrei Bajuk, please. The Prime Minister, Dr Andrej Bajuk, says that both budgets have been presented simultaneously, so I give the floor to the Chairman of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, who considered the draft budget for 2007 as the working body of the mother. Mr. President Bojan Starman, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! At its 11th session on 3.12., the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy also considered the draft budget for 2007. We have received an appropriate explanation of the representatives of the Ministry, Mr Minister, regarding the complementary proposal. The complementary proposal has 71.9 million higher revenues and also expenditure due to the revised structure, structural funds, European funds and spending, and has 3 billion-dollar redistribution on the expenditure side to provide additional funds for transfers to individuals and to the disability and pension insurance institution. The proposal also took into account DeSUS's proposals to increase funding for veteran organisations and the proposal for nationality in order to increase investment for education, for nationality, which was taken into account in the proposal itself. The debate itself raised a number of questions on the relevance of the consideration of the 2007 draft budget, as a whole series of things are not clear, on which it is not possible to anticipate the correct expenditure for 2007. Of course this is true, on the other hand, it is true that the Public Finance Act requires us to adopt both budgets for 2006 and 2007 and the same law also makes us feel that the budget needs to be properly adjusted by means of a rebalancing, if necessary. The main findings were that the updated draft budget did not take account of the envisaged reforms in our country, that it did not take into account Europe's new financial perspective and probably some other issues. Indeed, this proposal by the Government does not foresee a situation as it is and foresees the starting points that have been considered to negotiate with the European perspective so far and the proposals and reforms adopted so far in the field of tax policies. It was also said that the possibility of a significant increase in the public deficit was a major one, up to 2.7, this was demonstrated in the discussion. All these answers, of course, were given by the Ministry of Finance at the meeting itself. Fear of an increase mainly due to the indebtedness of municipalities with a theoretical potential of up to 300 billion has been said. This fear is not justified, of course, since this draft budget indicates the very precise state of public finances and also the debt of public finances, which is expected to be 29.5 gross domestic product at the end of 2006 and 29.8, and the overall deficit is not to exceed in 2006 1.41, whereas in 2007 it is 1.21% of gross domestic product. Even if it is boring to report on budgets, but I think that this is the most important document that we accept, it might eventually only refresh some of the numbers that we are going to decide on today. The estimate of gross domestic product is based on growth of 4% and inflation for 2006 2.5 and for 2007 2.3%, which means we are talking about 2007 GDP of 7492 billion dollars, and of this we will spend in the 1954 billion budget, which means 26.09%, which is significantly less than we plan for 2005. The total consumption of all cash will be 3225 billion and 44.39% of GDP. Once again, I repeat all the other cash registers, which are usually forgotten: municipal 406, pension 983 and health 468 billion tolars. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u3	Thank you. We are moving on to a presentation of the views of the groups. It will first give its position to the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members. Comrade Bogdan Barovich. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear colleagues, colleagues, representatives of the government. We are talking about the draft budget for 2007 but I estimate that my fellow Member of the Slovenian National Party, Mr Saš Pečet, has already been said in explanation of the 2006 budget. However, more needs to be said about the 2007 budget. First of all, I have been among colleagues and colleagues in the Slovenian National Party, and you agree to even propose to governments not to adopt the 2006 and 2007 budget. That was right at the beginning. This is simply because the introduction of the euro at my discretion, given that I have been actively involved in the committee for a long time, and earlier in the European Affairs Commission, the introduction of the euro will change according to our opinion, the opinion of the Slovenian National Party, the 2007 budget picture. These are the facts. On the other hand, I speak for the government, of course, but this is not my opinion, the government has acted very cleverly and in the law on the implementation of the budget has in fact given itself the opportunity to empower itself to carry out a number of changes that we have in the Slovenian National Party in doubt to leave to the decision-making of the government alone. The introduction of the euro is a major problem that we see in the Slovenian National Party for the 2007 budget. Statistical indicators of the introduction of the euro in all EU countries, i.e. in 15 older Member States, as well as indicators in 10 new ones show that the introduction of the euro automatically means an increase in prices. Price increases threaten social security, but these are consequences. And threatened social security will also have to be covered in one way through budgetary resources in the future financial period. These budgetary resources will probably only be able to be collected by the government by raising value added tax, which means that one attempt by the government on the one hand to achieve a uniform tax rate will bring about a momentary peace that will grow after the introduction of the euro into a recast of the tax rate. In the Slovenian National Party, we fear that a certain tax rate will increase more than it could, say, by more than half a percent. We're sure. It is also necessary to say at the 2007 budget that the same government direction applies as in 2006 and that, according to the Slovenian National Party, there are some shortcomings in which it would focus on, despite the fact that there has been a lot of talk, a really large increase in consumption for, understand positively or normally, for repressive authorities. We are also surprised that Slovenia is the best country in the EU and that it wants to move to a 100% subsidy in agriculture already in 2007, which, of course, none of the 25 EU Member States will and will not do. But I don't have that information, if it's true, thanks for the attitude, I'm a little richer to know. Among the things that we have identified in the Slovenian National Party in the 2007 budget review, we are, of course, interested in or may say, what bothers us in the formulation of both budgets, that there has been insufficient discussion with the social partners. There was no dialogue with the social partners. Of course, as I will say, in part, not now 100%, but in part also local self-government and regional development at two levels, i.e. within the country and the European Union, I estimate that the 2007 budget is not exactly in line with the options and financial plans for the development of local self-government, regional development at NUTS2 and NUTS3 levels. We believe in the Slovenian National Party that no matter what the decision is, which is probably already known, the 2007 budget, this government will have to make a lot of changes. I am afraid, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, I say that in the negative direction that it will have to increase taxes so that it will have to make a balance. However, I hope that these things will be done by the government in agreement and in coordination with this national assembly, which is not only responsible for the country's finances. I stress this once again because the government in ZIPRO, in our view, is somewhat overly competent. All interested parties, in particular opposition parties, have tabled amendments to the 2007 budget. Most of these amendments are identical, as were the amendments for 2006. I propose in my name, on behalf of the Slovenian National Parties, coalition colleagues to listen, regardless of the fact that we have already gone through one story, some even four times through listening to these amendments and taking into account the serious part of this national council, that we are all aware that there is certainly an amendment among these amendments, which is slightly less than in 2006, which deserves attention and which deserves change, despite the fact that there will then be a little more work with coordinating amendments. In the Slovenian National Party, we once again warn and stress that it would be best for the government to adopt the 2006 budget at this time and for 2007 to wait precisely for the introduction of the euro. I hope that the introduction of the euro will not bring our forecasts, i.e. increasing the rate of value added tax and other tax rates, which, of course, will mean a lot, a lot of social emotions and a lot of social problems.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u5	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the position of the DeSUS Group, mag. Franz Gniedarsich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues! Our client will support the 2007 budget. It will support him because there are many things in the budget that we thought were right to fit in. And when we were preparing the budget, some of our substantive changes were also taken into account. That is why I think it is necessary, however, for this budget to be adopted. In doing so, we have some concerns because we have noticed that there is a limited programme of building houses for the elderly, that there is an important reduction in resources, although it is not a large amount of money. We also think that too little money is needed for the start-up costs of creating a home aid institute, which is developing very slowly even though we know that the ageing of our population is unstoppable in the sense that the problem of older people will accumulate year after year. That is why we think that in the balance, which will certainly come also due to other open issues, which we do not all yet know, which will be clarified at this time, we think that it will be possible to correct certain things with a balance to this extent, so that the budget will then be acceptable to all of us. At this point and at this stage, we support the budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u7	Thank you for your position. A presentation of the position of the Hungarian national community is scheduled. Since Mrs Marie Possonec is not in the Chamber, we are moving on to a presentation on the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's member. My friend Miro Friday, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u8	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Welcome to the Hall of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The SDS Group supports the proposed budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2007, taking into account the adopted strategy for the development of Slovenia and providing a basis for the future development of the country of Slovenia. This development will be possible if Slovenia adopts and implements the necessary reforms as soon as possible to improve the competitiveness of our economy, and this will consequently increase the welfare of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. In preparing the 2007 budget, we must take into account the fact that the financial perspective of the European Union for the period 2007-2013 has not yet been adopted and, therefore, it is not possible to plan the budget resources from the European Funds in a reliable manner. It is therefore likely that the corresponding budget changes for 2007 will need to be adopted on both the revenue and expenditure sides next year. Changes in public spending in 2007 will also be necessary as a result of measures to include planned economic reforms. The global view of the 2007 budget shows that the fiscal deficit is gradually decreasing year after year, and this is, of course, one of the objectives and conditions for taking over the euro and thus ensuring a stable and predictable macroeconomic environment for Slovenian companies. As in 2006, real gross domestic product growth of 4% is projected in 2007, and the budget is also prepared on this basis. As has been said several times, for 2007, revenues of 1861.1 billion tolars or 6% higher than in 2006, and expenditure of 1954.2 billion tolars or 5.2% more than a year after that. The projected budget deficit is estimated at 93.1 billion dollars or 8% less than in 2006. Its share in the gross domestic product is estimated to be 1.2%. The proposed budget promotes the competitiveness of the economy and investment, facilitating financial incentives for research aimed at economic development. In line with the Lisbon Strategy, it is thus possible to invest more in technological development and increase investment. An important focus in the budget is on education, as it is an investment that is oriented towards the future. In our parliamentary group, we also welcome the promotion of coherent regional development, the promotion of housing, and we also agree with the planned investments in health care and in a healthy and safe environment. Some Slovenian regions, which have been completely forgotten by the authorities so far, have been corrected by the 2006 and 2007 budgets by the government, thus giving them the opportunity to make up more quickly for the development backlog. Personally, I am very pleased that the previously neglected Carinthia region has received the attention it has not received so far in these two budgets. In view of the crisis facing our justice system, which we have been warned about for years by international institutions, it seems appropriate that the budget provides more money to improve the conditions of functioning of the judicial institutions, which will gradually negligently improve the situation and resolve the denial of problems in this area. The proposed budget for 2007 adequately provides for the provision of the necessary funds for investment maintenance and the construction of state transport infrastructure, as well as for all other sectors of public interest, which makes it necessary for the State to ensure adequate material conditions for their existence and operation. Members of the SDS estimate that the proposed budget is development-oriented, contrary to previous budgets, indexation is no longer a priority, but content, the actual need for public funding according to actual and real needs. In the SDS Group, we agree with the updated draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2007 and will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u9	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the position of the Member Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Mag. Anton Rop, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u10	Dear Members! Allow me to present the position of the LDS Club on the supplementary draft budget for 2007. First of all, I should like to point out that the 2006-2007 supplementary draft budget, which sets out the basic objectives and orientations of macroeconomic policies and forecasts of economic developments for the period 2005-2007. While we agree with the core objectives and priorities of the Memorandum of Understanding, which is based on the strategy of the Republic of Slovenia relating to faster economic growth, increased competitiveness, an efficient and cheaper country, the development of science and quality jobs, a modern social state and sustainable development. But we strongly doubt that the budgets that are ahead of us are the path to meeting these priorities and objectives. On the contrary, we believe that they will not contribute to economic growth, not to a modern social state, nor to sustainable development. The latest data on economic growth in Slovenia shows that the current government is on the opposite track and at the same time raises questions about the assessment of public financial revenues, the assessment of the public financial deficit and the reality of the expenditure, as contained in the draft budgets for 2006-2007. At a time when economic growth in the rest of the EU is increasing, we are witnessing negative trends in Slovenia, trends in slowing down economic growth. Thus, in the third quarter of this year, economic growth in Slovenia was 3.7%, at which time last year economic growth was 4.7%. And what is even more worrying is that in 2005, we are witnessing an extraordinary fall in gross investment in fixed assets. These are usually considered to be the healthiest part of economic growth. Last year, at this time, investment in fixed assets increased by 6.7%. This year, only 1.6%. Total gross investment even fell by 4.4% this year. We haven't actually filled anything like this in Slovenia in a long time. The share of investments in gross domestic product in Slovenia is declining. This is not indicative of a development breakthrough, nothing about the developmental catch-up of the EU's developed members and nothing about the implementation of Slovenia's development strategy. In these trends, the assumptions of the 2006 and 2007 budgets are very questionable. Thus, in the budgetary memorandum, for example, it is assumed that the gross domestic product in Slovenia will grow by 3.9 per cent in 2005, in 2006 and 2007, by four per cent increase in investment, in the budgetary memorandum which is the basis for this budget that is ahead of us, investment is expected to grow by four per cent growth rate. In fact, they grow by 1.6% growth rate. In the next two years, investments are expected to increase by 4.5% and 5%. This is not happening, the trends are quite reversed, and the level of registered unemployment will continue to decline. This is particularly important in terms of public financial expenditure, i.e. registered unemployment is closely linked to the volume of public financial transfers for the unemployed or in case of unemployment insurance. Thus, the registered unemployment rate is expected to be 10, 2006 9,6, 9,2 in 2005. We are witnessing exactly the opposite of movement. Thus, the 2006 budget assumptions themselves and in particular 2007 are questionable. We have declining economic growth, declining investment activity and rising unemployment. These are not good travel for the budget, for economic and social policy and even less for development. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to present below some of the views of the LDS Club on the supplementary draft budget for 2007 from three perspectives. From the point of view of public financial revenues, from the perspective of public financial expenditure, from the perspective of public financial deficits and government debt. Before that, it is worth noting that the updated draft budget for 2007 is a questionable and unrealistic proposal in the 2007 budget for government reform measures from the start. If the government implements the reform measures, we will witness a completely new draft budget for 2007. Given that the government has already decided to go into reform measures to set up a special ministry, tomorrow we will be witnessing the hearing of the newly proposed Minister for Development, that, as it is true, it has also prepared appropriate calculations, we would expect that the 2007 budget already contains new measures. Unfortunately, or fortunately, the government is not. The government and the coalition have obviously not been able to anticipate, assess the impact of the reform measures, but it is probably even more important that the coalition has failed to harmonise the reform measures proposed. The following assessment of the 2007 draft budget is therefore first of all from the point of view which is also the most important in the light of the reform measures, and this is through public financial revenues. Through the policy of public finances, the government has a significant impact on the country's tax competitiveness and on the competitiveness of the economy, and through the tax burden of the population it affects the standard of living and the real purchasing power of the various groups. An analysis of the 2007 budget in terms of public financial revenues shows that this year public financial revenues will increase nominally by 5.1%, in terms of 2006 and 11.3% in terms of 2005. In the LDS, we welcome the continuation of the tax reduction on paid salaries in 2007 by an additional 20 percentage points. The inflow from this heading will be reduced by 18%, according to 2006. That's good, and it's urgent. At the same time, however, it is the only tax, the tax on which the inflows will fall, and the only one that can make a positive contribution to the competitiveness of the economy and tax competitiveness. In all other areas, for all other taxes, we are witnessing an increase in the public financial burden on the economy and the population, a decrease in tax competitiveness and an increase in the burden on the population. Let us see what can be found in the 2007 supplementary draft budget. First time. First of all, as far as income is concerned, we have a higher profit tax. According to 2006 the inflows will increase by about 13%, compared to 2006, and by about 30.5%, depending on 2005. If the calculations are correct, if the assumptions are correct and there are no specific gaps in the budget under this heading, this undoubtedly means a higher burden on the economy and a higher effective rate of taxation of the economy and a lower competitiveness. If that's not true, then we have the wrong planning and we have an unrealistic budget. Another time. In the 2007 budget, we have a higher value added tax, which is 10.6% higher in 2006 and almost 25% higher in 2005 than in 2005. Let me point out that overall government revenue will increase by 11.3% compared to 2005. So the value added tax revenue is 25% and the total government revenue is 11%. This means that after entering the euro area, we will in any case tax the population further. According to the scenario of the Ministry of Finance, which is ahead of us today, all Slovenian residents and residents, and immediately. However, with a differentiated rate, as stated in the budget memorandum, by 9% or 21%. However, if a single tax rate is realised, it will be much worse. The aggregate burden will be higher and, by reducing purchasing power and living standards, this increase will pay especially and especially for socially weaker groups, unemployed, pensioners, workers, students and young families, clothing, footwear, medicines, housing, municipal services will be encouraged without any positive impact on tax competitiveness, economic growth and vice versa. There will be social dispersion, greater poverty and lower competitiveness. So much for the value added tax. Third time. The 2007 budget, which is very surprising if you look at it, assumes that the income is above average also higher than the income. In 2006, up by 8.8% and in 2005, 12.7%, which is more than the flow dynamics of total government revenue, is 11.3%. So where are the big burdens that you discussed when you changed the Income Act last week? Last week, we heard that large tax burdens and tax reliefs were followed by changes to the Income Act. In the 2007 budget, it happens the other way around. Income-based burdens are increasing above average, inflows are increasing on average. Interesting. Either it's just wrong calculations or there's no such relief. They are the source of increased inflows taxed on interest for more than one million Slovenian taxpayers. However, we are witnessing such a picture only in the assumption that there will be no reform measures. If there are reform measures, there will be a single tax rate. If there will be a single tax rate, then we were able to learn when we presented the government's measures to actually reduce tax revenues under this heading, but, of course, the reduction mainly and only at the expense of those from the highest income classes, i.e. at the expense of the richest. They will have a lower income tax, they will pay less and the 2007 budget will fall from this heading. Fourth time. It is true, however, that we find a tax source in the 2007 budget, which is untouchable, which is obviously not going to increase, on the contrary, it assumes that the inflow from this title will even decrease - very interesting - this is a property tax. A tax that is usually the most taxed everywhere in the world for the richest assets to be used productively. In fact, this tax is intended to force those who have the property to use it for capital investments and so on. Obviously, the government does not intend and does not wish to prepare a property tax, and obviously it does not provide for this in the 2007 budget. It is therefore envisaged that the 2007 inflows from this heading will increase by 5.4% and in two years, in 2005 alone, by only 9%, on average from other sources. Dear Members! This was just a few data, comparisons showing that the 2007 budget is poor, without real developmental impulses on the part of tax policy and public financial revenues. Everything shows that when reform measures are taken, it will be possible to make it worse. There are also virtually no items on the expenditure side that could be very developmental. We could say that the situation defines budgetary expenditure and the budget does not create a new state and even less development. Individual items are planned questionable and defective and time will show errors. In fact, it is very fortunate that the budgets in Slovenia must also be European budgets and that European budgetary policy, in its work or in a significant part, defines expenditure on subsidies. It is also fortunate for Slovenia that the latest proposal by the British Presidency for Slovenia regarding the new financial perspective is favourable. Unfavourable due to the good negotiation of Slovenia, because in the whole package, this package of new financial perspectives would be better than the Luxembourg Presidency's proposal. It is true that this new financial perspective for the European Union, 27 in particular for all the other members, is not good. He's worse and he's not connected. However, Slovenia is in a group of countries that have won this round in particular, namely Portugal, Spain and Greece. So those countries that are close to Slovenia, and Slovenia also joined these countries in a new financial perspective also due to the relatively successful development in the past, the level of development. Dear Members and Members! The 2007 budget is also, of course, questionable in the part where they talk about deficits and public financial debt. In particular, I would like to point out that the public funding balances show that the government does not foresee any deficit, no additional debt in all other cash registers. This is very good, and of course we welcome if that happens. We will, of course, monitor it. The 2007 budget and the public funding balance show that there will be balanced balance sheets, both in the field of pensions and in the field of health care and in the field of municipalities. If that happens, as you say, it'll be fine. However, if this does not happen, of course, the scope of public financial debt, the public financial deficit, will be significantly higher. The scope of the public deficit is, of course, questionable and is also risky in terms of the inflows I spoke about earlier. If I'm done. The 2007 budget is incomplete, risky and not based on what the Slovenian government obviously envisages. It is therefore a budget because of the budget, but it is also a budget that reflects some of the substantive measures taken in the management of the policy led by the Slovenian Government. This budget is not a developmental budget that does not move forward, so, of course, the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia cannot support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u11	Thank you. Here comes a presentation of the position of the Socialist Group of Members. Comrade Janko Weber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u12	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone. Let me say that in the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, we find that the 2007 supplementary budget could be called the budget of strangers. Initially, we note that the supplementary draft budget is purely for cosmetic adjustments, but this reflects an increase in public administration costs, which surprises us. The finding is contrary to the statements of Minister Virant, who claims that public administration costs are falling. However, major substantive changes in the updated draft budget, reflecting the opposition's warnings, are not to be observed. In this way, the content of the opposition's budget, as it all appears, can only be duly warned and the effects of the coalition do not allow it. Therefore, the responsibility of coalition parties will be so much greater if the situation of most citizens and citizens deteriorates. The 2006 and 2007 budgets are therefore a test for the government, for the coalition and especially for the country. An important difference between the 2006 and 2007 budgets is that the 2007 budget will be in euros. This is a common interest, a common goal, although we are aware that this means a farewell from the present, a young but successful national currency. However, we are concerned that the picture is blurred because there is no change in ratios. We must add to this the fact that 2007 will also be the first year of the new financial perspective, which is full of uncertainty and ignorance. It would therefore be important to assess these uncertainties as professionally and politically, irrespective of the various views of the coalition and the opposition. In this situation, we need to be even more aware of shared responsibilities and to seek the best possible solutions and, above all, to reduce the risks to the successful development of the country. Unfortunately, we note in these procedures that even for the first time it has happened that neither the social partners have been involved in the drafting of the budgets. An additional obstacle is the change in the key interest rate proposed by the European Central Bank. She raised it by 12.5%, which means 2.25. By taking over the euro, Slovenia will subject its own monetary policy to the European policy, but it still remains the instruments of fiscal policy that are most reflected in the budget. The Social Democrats are concerned that the Government has failed to take these changes into account in the formulation of the supplementary budget. The excuses concerning the ignorance of the situation, the lack of information, the lack of involvement of the government will not protect the people of the Republic of Slovenia from the negative consequences. The increase in interest rates is aimed at reducing inflation, thereby increasing savings and hampering investment. We therefore expected the Social Democrats from the Government to provide additional resources in the supplementary draft budget for development policies, in particular for investments in the economy, for investments in new jobs, for more coherent regional development than three key areas, for the successful development of the country. If these resources are not available, we can expect a new wave of redundancies in Slovenia and a deepening of developmental lagging behind. We are also faced with the test of reforms, the consequences of which we do not really know at this moment and are not presented with an accurate analysis of reforms. As a result of such uncoordinatedness, we estimate that the implementation of the draft budget will be virtually impossible. The government of development policy largely leaves funding from Brussels, but despite the more favourable proposal, which is now proposed, it does not have a new financial perspective for the period 2007-2013. The revenue side is already overestimated by the catastrophic situation in the field of fund-raising, as the activities of this government so far show that it is not able to draw on the promised funds from the European Union. As an example, the agricultural ministry, which has not issued a decision to a large extent in 2005, has not made payments for rural development programmes. This is an 80% programme funded from Brussels. Thus, Slovenia will not receive 10 billion tolls for agricultural subsidies this year. We must be aware, however, that in this case, it is very clear procedures, very clear and defined criteria, and, as it turns out, we have not been able to carry out all the procedures necessary for this money to come. Not only in new developmental thinking, where these procedures are not even so precise. Although we have tried to define these procedures in strategic documents with at least the objectives and, if we look at economic development, it is important that the government takes into account the basic adopted documents in budgeting, such as the strategy for the development of Slovenia, the economic development strategy, the Lisbon Strategy and similar strategic documents. In reviewing the budget, we note that we are seeing too little investment in technological development and innovation, too little support for the development of the business environment, too little resources for science and education, and if we add too little revenue from the sale of state assets, we can talk about the possibility that we may already face the degradation of the country and the degradation of the already created prosperity. This is one of the very big issues and facts that we are emerging from the 2007 budget review. Also in the case of an active employment policy, which is last but not least one of the basic measures of the Lisbon Strategy, we find that funds in Slovenia are falling for this purpose. The first results are already visible, as unemployment in Slovenia is increasing. The flexibility of the labour market will be further opposed by the Social Democrats if it takes place at the expense of education for the unemployed, at the expense of retraining workers, helping the first job seekers and at the expense of reducing social policies. It is only worth agreeing to increase the flexibility of the labour market with a consistent increase in social security. We imagine social security in the entire area of Slovenia and, of course, it is also extremely important for us to focus on the budget, which is reflected in regional development policy. We believe that regional development policy can also be measured through the funding of municipalities, where we find that the indebtedness of the municipalities will increase. Investments in the construction of motorways and railway transport corridors, which are also crucial for the design of European transport corridors, will be subordinated to debt. Investments in regional and border projects, which are somehow the most based on the Interreg programme, are noted that the government initially reduced the resources available in 2005 to design projects, which would then be the basis for drawing concrete resources to carry out these tasks. These funds, which, while increasing in the budget, are increasing only to the inflows or to the increase of European funds, but it is not a means to carry out projects involving the State, which is whether there is a likelihood of additional indebtedness of the municipalities here as well. In addition, if we add regional spatial planning, which is largely carried over to municipalities, we find that this regional planning does not even take into account Natura 2000, which is an additional administrative measure, which will require further environmental impact assessments. So it will be a barrier to development, as the municipalities will finance more bureaucracy, more bureaucratic measures instead of investing in people and development. We note that the government does not provide funds to make it easier for municipalities to finance these administrative procedures. We also note from the protection of the environment, one of the fundamental objectives of the Social Democrats, that although the resolution recently adopted foresees the introduction of environmental technologies that reduce emissions pollution and increase the competitiveness of the economy, the budget does not follow this objective or this resolution. We also note that the importance of renewable energy sources is not sufficiently stressed, that resources are either maintained or at a level similar to those of previous budgetary periods, or that they are actually falling. Also in housing policy, we find that the budget runs counter to the government's promises to help young people, to increase birthrates, and we believe that these are clearly no longer the government's priorities. These important indicators of regional development policy, we note, are truly inadequately processed in this budget, and we have also tried to prove, in the process of adopting the budget, that we are able and willing to seek consensus on the most important policies, so we have also proposed more than a hundred added to the budget. It is true that in most cases we have relied on resources relating to the financing of repressive authorities, especially the military, but we wanted to draw attention to the fact that one third of the money in the budget is still too much for the purpose of repressive authorities. We would like a more balanced budget, because it bothers us because resources are falling in the field of science and technological development, which are certainly a generator and an indicator of the competitive advantage of the economy. We are also disturbed by the reduction of resources for training and education, for the creation of new jobs, for the improvement of the flexibility of businesses, and by the fact that resources for incentives for the employment of unemployed people are being reduced. With the additions that we have forwarded to the budget, we would like to see that, indeed, with acceptance, at least some of these key supplements balance the budget in the sense that development would be significantly more suitable for all the population, for all the economic sectors and not least for both domestic and foreign investment. We fear that the additions to the budget with the above-mentioned contents will not be supported, as this relationship has already been very clearly reflected in the 2006 budget. That is why, in the 2007 budget, we also find that, in fact, there are very few reasons why the budget should be adopted. There are many to the fact that there is no such budget and that is why we will oppose the 2007 budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u13	Thank you for the report. The following is a presentation of the position of the New Slovenia Group. Comrade Cyril Testen, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u14	Representatives of the government, Members and Members of Parliament! In the New Slovenia Group of Members - The Christian People's Party, we will also support the draft budget for 2007. With the 2007 draft budget, the applicants had problems mainly due to a number of uncertainties that made it impossible to make the proposal more precise. The financial perspective 2007-2013 has not yet been adopted, which is a major unknown in terms of the budget. For Slovenia, the adoption of the financial perspective during the British Presidency would be significantly better, since in the next seven-year period we would have provided ourselves as a single region with higher European funds and would have been by 2013, assuming that we would be able to draw on the funds successfully, certainly net recipients. Each later agreement is conditional on two regions, which will undoubtedly reduce the chances of being long-term net recipients. For 2007, the situation is quite unclear, even in relation to the envisaged economic reform, which, although supported in economic circles, is strongly opposed by the unions and, in our opinion, by the opposition parties in particular. In our Group of Members, we are confident that much more will be needed to achieve a broader consensus, which is the only guarantee that reforms will also be adopted in practice and will not create a bad feeling among people. We all agree, however, that reforms are necessary for the Slovenian economy's perspective and that any delay means a deterioration in the conditions for their introduction. One of the very important things that will undoubtedly have an impact on Slovenia's economic space is the introduction of the euro as a means of payment from 1.1.2007. The introduction of the euro will also have negative effects in terms of costs in the first phase, and later costs will be reduced as a result of easier communication and work will be simplified. The objectives pursued by the 2007 budget proposals are similar to those of 2006 and will not be presented again. Among the objectives, it could only be useful to mention that the share of the budget in the gross social product will be reduced from 26.3 in 2006 to 26 in 2007. The budget deficit, which is expected to amount to 1.2 gross social product for 2007, is also expected to be reduced. The planned total revenue in 2007 is a thousand 861 billion or 7 billion 766 million euros, which is 104 billion more or 6% more in 2006, respectively. Given the fact that in 2007 we will additionally relieve wages with a 20% reduction in the tax on wages paid, and also given the likelihood that the financial perspective will be less favourable than Luxembourg, this issue is still open, new resources on the revenue side are likely to need to be considered. Again, it must be stressed that budgetary resources also depend on the capacity to draw on available European funds. In 2007, the structure of the budget has not changed significantly, given the year 2006, which points to the policies and priorities set by the government and the coalition and wants to follow it. We will only point out three budget consumers that we think are particularly important. For 2007 too, funds for municipalities are increasing, from a hundred and three thousand to one hundred and eight thousand, and funding for local communities, consistent regional development from 17.2 billion in 2006 to 25.2 billion in 2007, representing a 46.5% increase. Much of the increase in rights in environmental spending programmes is in pollution reduction, control and control. The main part of the additional resources in the range of 13.9 billion is the planned expenditure for the implementation of the environmental protection programme on water and waste. The second part of the increase in environmental programmes of 9.3 billion from cohesion funds is also envisaged for financing environmental municipal infrastructure. Investments in environmental programmes are largely conditioned by drawing on European funds. At the Ministry of Transport, the funds increase by 9% for 2007 compared to 2006. The funds increase from 7.9 billion SIT to 13 billion in the previous years, according to previous years. Despite this increase, much of the financing for the construction of motorways will also be covered by Dars' debt in 2007. Already in the 2006 budget, we have found that, after an analysis by the Economic Institute of Law, Dars is able to cover the loans he will rent for 2006 and 2007, so that the state and state budget in this case will only be a guarantor. The 2007 State Road Construction Programme also increases the resources for reconstruction and reconstruction of state roads by 4.8 billion, which we believe is good and will contribute to more coherent regional development over the longer term. Slovenia has set itself major development goals in 2006, 2007 and in later years. Both in terms of reorganisation of the country and decentralisation of state institutions, which is also expected to contribute to more coherent regional development. We are already implementing a partial reorganisation because the situation in connection with the European Union has forced us to do so. Even more important for the life and well-being of citizens is economic development, where very clear objectives are set, but in our opinion we lack capital. We have clearly defined ourselves to complete the construction of motorways, the construction and reconstruction of state roads, the reconstruction and modernisation of rail transport, the upgrading and restoration of electricity capacities and the transmission network and the establishment of a competitive school system. In New Slovenia-Christian People's Party we believe that we will only be able to make such extensive investments in a relatively short time, provided that we attract as much private and foreign capital as possible. It is essential in all areas where we assess that this is possible to develop a public and private partnership. In comparison with what direction this government has, I would say that the expenditure portion of the budget in 2004 amounted to a billion in 1595 and in 2007 it was expected to be a billion in 1954, plus 22.4%. Funds for the appropriate consumption of municipalities increased by plus 39.2% during this period. Science and technology funds plus 50.1%, public road funds plus 52.7%, and regional development programmes funds plus 231.5%. These are important indicators that I think they're saying a lot. Finally, I would like to quote, but I think this is also our opinion, Dr. Frances Krizanič, when asked how much the government contributed to positive economic indicators in the first year of government. I quote: you need to know, says Križanič, that economic policy is extremely important at the current stage of development, it is said that poor economic policy can undoubtedly suppress economic growth and accelerate inflation and destroy balance in the employment market and in other markets. According to Krizanic's assessment, the current government has not done so; it has led to a credible economic policy that has contributed to economic growth. In doing so, export growth is expected to be very beneficial in Slovenia, which was a direct result of our entry into the European Union. If we rebuild state roads or reconstruct railways next year, good results may continue. The fact is, the government and the Prime Minister have not made a mistake. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u15	Thank you. We are moving on to a presentation on the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Comrade Joseph Bajc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u16	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings to government representatives, colleagues and colleagues! I hope that the remainder of the Government's representatives, who is not unknown, such as many items in the 2007 draft revised or updated draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia. As I said in my presentation of the Slovenian People's Party's views on the 2006 updated draft budget for the Republic of Slovenia and also explained the reasons why the Members of the Slovenian People's Party will also support the updated draft budget for the Republic of Slovenia for 2007, allow me to say a word, two more today. When I listened to the representatives of the parties, I was asked if we were talking about the same updated draft budget for 2007, all of us. We Members of the Slovenian People's Party also know that the 2007 budget is largely dependent on the adoption of the European Union's financial perspective. Whether it was Luxembourg or it was the British proposal, he is very unknown. Also in the presentation or explanation of the general part of the budget presented by Minister Bajuk last week, this was expressed or said. However, the legal provisions are such that we are adopting the draft budget, whether we are also talking about a new financial perspective, whether we are talking about the introduction of the euro in 2007, and not to mention what else we could talk about, it was necessary to draw up a draft budget for 2006 and 2007. According to Members of the Slovenian People's Party, the known criteria for the preparation of the 2007 draft budget have been taken into account to the greatest extent possible and, as has already been said, in the light of many unknowns, we are probably also asked a lot of questions, but what if. However, as it is said, given that the best-known assumptions are also embedded in the updated draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2007, the Members of the Slovenian People's Party will support this proposal, and we also realistically assess and expect that, when these are known, unknown assumptions may occur at this point in time, there will be a comprehensive budget rebalancing and then all that will happen will be built in. However, we estimate that the 2007 budget is prepared with one common goal, that is to take over the euro in Slovenia, and if some comment on this as good or bad, the Slovenian People's Party believes that this is a good thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u17	Thank you. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Before we go to the consideration of the supplementary draft budget, please all Members and Members who are in the Parliament of the National Assembly to join us, because we will slowly start voting on individual amendments, where it is necessary to ensure coherence. As we say, we are moving on to the consideration of the supplementary draft budget. We will discuss the individual parts of the budget and the amendments tabled, and as individual parts, as you know, are considered for the first time, the general part, the second part, the specific part and the development programme plan. This is how we are going to address the general part of the 2007 supplementary draft budget. Where does he want the word? Nobody. Then I conclude a debate that has not been held. We are moving on to a decision on the general part of the supplementary draft budget. Anybody want to explain their voice? Nobody. We're voting. There are 25 Members and Members present. We will vote again. In the meantime, I ask all Members of Parliament and Members to join us. Before that, I'm asking my colleague Mikolić. Then we're moving on to a different decision. We're voting. As you can see on the display, only 34 Members and Members are present. I'm adjourning the session in 10 minutes. In these ten minutes, I ask that all those Members who are close to the National Assembly join us. Would you excuse me? Thank you. We'll continue the session at 11.30 a.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u18	Dear Members! We continue with the adjourned session. We are moving on to the third decision on the general part of the supplementary draft budget. Please take your seats. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 52 Members and Members present, with 40 votes and 12 against. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 12.]] I note that the general part of the supplementary draft budget has been adopted. We are moving on to the consideration of the specific part of the 2007 supplementary draft budget. Who wants a word? Nobody. Since no one wants to discuss or even debate any more, we are moving on to debate and decision-making on the amendments to the specific part of the 2007 supplementary draft budget. They are recorded in the review of the amendments of 7.12. this year. I will lead the debate as on Friday, i.e. in the context of budgetary users and in the context of sub-programmes. I am putting to the debate a new budgetary user, namely the Office of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the sub-programme underpins economic and development policies where we have proposed an amendment proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary groups, the New Slovenia Group, the Slovenian People's Party Group and the DeSUS Group of Members. Who wants a word? Nobody. This concludes the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled. We're voting. There were 62 Members and Members present, 45 votes in favour of the proposed amendment, 11 votes in favour. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 11.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving to the budgetary user of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Office of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Slovenians in place and around the world. Under the sub-programme, support for Slovenians, both in place and abroad, the Social Democrats' Group proposed an amendment. I'm opening a debate. There's no debate. We're going to the vote. We're voting. There were 58 Members and Members present and 14,43 votes against for the proposed amendment. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the supplement has not been accepted. We are transferring to the budgetary user the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the sub-programme for the implementation of foreign policy. Under this sub-programme, we have one proposed amendment proposed by the Slovenian National Party parliamentary group. Who wants a word? Comrade Barovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u19	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. This is about us starting a strategy, a policy of technical heritage, a cultural heritage of economic and tourism development, and evaluating, and I ask my colleagues and colleagues to make sure that we are taking this direction to the end, of course, and I expect this amendment to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u20	Thank you. This concludes the debate. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. 61 Members and Members are present. There were 47 votes against 6. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against six.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving to a discussion within the budgetary user of the Ministry of Defence within the sub-programme on scientific research activities in the defence field and technological development in the defence field. We have tabled an amendment under this sub-programme by the Liberal Democracy Club. Who wants a word? Nobody. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 40. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Within the framework of the same budgetary user, we are transitioning to a sub-programme of international cooperation and an amendment tabled by the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group. Nobody. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present, with 39 votes against 13. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 13.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are transferring to the budgetary user the Ministry of Economy to sub-programmes to promote technological development of the economy where the proposed two amendments are tabled. The first on the side of the Liberal Democracy Club and the second on the side of the same proposer. I am opening a debate on the two supplements tabled. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the first amendment to this subroutine. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, with 18 votes against 41. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the second amendment to this sub-programme. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 17 votes against 41. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to the sub-programme of mine closure programmes and one added addition by the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats. Anybody want a word? No, no, no. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, 17 votes against 39. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to debate and decision-making under the sub-programme, programmes to increase competitiveness and two additional contributions made. First on the side of the Club of Liberal Democracy and second on the side of the Club of Liberal Democracy. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 39. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it that the amendment under order number one is not accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number two of the same proposer. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 40. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a sub-programme to promote the development of a small economy and to one added addition by the Member Club of Liberal Democracy. I'm opening a debate. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 38. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to a sub-programme of social protection and compensation for the restructuring of production and an amendment tabled by the parliamentary group of Social Democrats. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 41. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are transferring the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food to the budgetary user. In the framework of the sub-programme of the ground operation, we will meet with one proposed amendment proposed by the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. We're moving to [[...]] [[Intermediate speaking.]] Comrade Sok, here you go. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u21	Thank you for your word. In short, as in the 2006 budget, I would like to point out once again that, of course, it would be necessary to increase funding in the field of hydromeliorations of agricultural land and I think that, in the context of the rebalancing, the Ministry will have to listen to these arguments, but it is not possible to provide these resources at the expense of the rural development programme, because this is an agreed programme with the European Union and this programme cannot be diverted to other investments. This is why we will oppose this amendment in New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u22	Thank you. This concludes the debate. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, with 21 votes against 36. (For the vote was 21.)(against 36.) I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to debate and decision-making under the sub-programme to reduce agricultural damage and one amendment tabled by the Slovenian National Party parliamentary group. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, with 15 votes against 38. (For the vote was 15.)(against 38.) I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the sub-programme of the programme for the restoration, care and protection of forests and to the four amendments tabled by the Liberal Democracy Club of Parliament under order number 1, under order number 2 of the same proposer, i.e. the Liberal Democracy Club of Parliament, as well as the amendment under number 3 and 4. I'm opening a debate. We're moving on to decision-making. First, we will decide on the amendment under order number one. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, with 21 votes against 40. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number 2 of the same proposer. I vote. There are 62 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 40. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number 3, the same proposer. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, with 21 votes against 42. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We move on to the amendment under order number 4 of the same proposer. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 41. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to debate and decision-making under the sub-programme for the development of fisheries and one supplementary contribution from the parliamentary Group of Social Democrats. Anybody want a word? Message from Brad Roast, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u23	Thank you so much for saying that. Very briefly. It is the fact that the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food has not fulfilled almost anything since it was written in explanation and in the plan for the implementation of the Law on Maritime Fisheries, which was adopted almost three years ago. Therefore, these 12 million tolars are actually intended only to finance what farmers have on a very large scale in the form of an advisory service, which is also their responsibility as an advisory, organisational coordination service in Slovenia for Slovenian fishermen. I believe that 12 million tolars, which we are also drawing from the agriculture programme itself, are the amount that can certainly suffer from the area of the rural development programme so that we can provide our fishermen with better conditions so that they can connect and also implement their plans, which they have slowly begun to develop.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u24	Thank you. This concludes the debate. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 40. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are transferring to the budgetary user the Ministry of Transport and the sub-programme funds for the construction of motorways and opening the debate under one proposed amendment by the parliamentary group of social Democrats. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 42. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to debate and decision-making under the public service sub-programme on rail transport. We will discuss and decide on two amendments. The first submitted by the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group and the second, also the same proposer, i.e. the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. Who wants a word? My friend, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u25	Thank you very much, Mr President, distinguished ministers, colleagues, colleagues! As has already been said in the 2006 budget, I would also like to point out in this proposal that this is a fundamental way of regulating rail transport, that is to ensure security and order in this area. I have obtained my own vote of 9.12. and will carefully save it. I will not waste time because I know what the result of the vote will be. I will also get this list, and if possible, I know that if this happens on the railway, there will be an extraordinary event, at the possible emergency, ladies and gentlemen, I will remind you how you voted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u26	Thank you. This concludes the debate. We're moving on to decision-making. We'll decide first on the amendment under order number one. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, with 21 votes against 39. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number two, the same proposer, the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, for whom 22 votes against 39. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to the budget user Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for roads, to the area of sub-programme investment maintenance and construction of state roads. Under this sub-programme, we have 23 additions or amendments tabled, so please let any debaters tell us under which amendment they are discussing. I'm opening a debate. Comrade Kontic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u27	Thank you very much. I also take this opportunity to thank all those who participated in the miracle at the previous meeting or at the previous point in the 2006 budget, and this in the miracle of Velenje - Arja Vas. The amendment under number 12 is the continuation of this project, which has been confirmed by Members and Members in this National Assembly for the period 2006 and I propose that we continue to remedy this necessary part of the road today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u28	Thanks, buddy Contic. This concludes the debate. We are moving on to a decision on individual amendments under this sub-programme. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number one, the proposed Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 37. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number 2, the proposed Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, with 21 votes against 41. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number 3, the proposed Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present. The vote was 22 to 41. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it that the supplement has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number 4, the proposed parliamentary club of the Liberal Democracy. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present. 21 votes against 41. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number 5, the proposaler of the Liberal Democracy Chamber. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present. 21 votes against 41. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number 6, the proposed parliamentary club of the Liberal Democracy. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present. 21 votes against 41. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number 7, the proposed parliamentary club of the Liberal Democracy. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present. 23 votes to 40. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to the amendment under order number 8, the proposed parliamentary club of Liberal Democracy. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present. The vote was 22 to 40. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number 9, the candidate is the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. We're voting. 66 Members and Members are present. 23 votes against 42. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number 10, the proposed parliamentary club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present. 23 votes against 41. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number 11, the proposed parliamentary group of Social Democrats. We're voting. 62 Members and Members are present. There were 23 votes against 39. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number 12, a proposal for a parliamentary group of Social Democrats. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 34. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 34.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order 13, a proposal for a parliamentary group of Social Democrats. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, with 21 votes against 39. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order 14, a proposal for a parliamentary group of Social Democrats. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 39. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order 15, a proposal for a parliamentary group of Social Democrats. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, with 21 votes against 39. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number 16, a proposal for a parliamentary group of Social Democrats. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 39. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number 17, the proposed parliamentary group of Social Democrats. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 40. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order 18, a proposal for a parliamentary group of Social Democrats. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 39. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number 19, the proposed parliamentary group of Social Democrats. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 39. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision under order number 20, a proposal for a parliamentary group of Social Democrats. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, with 18 votes against 38. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number 21, the proposed parliamentary club of the Liberal Democracy. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 39. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number 22, the proposed parliamentary club of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 41. (For the vote was 23.)(against 41.) I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to the final decision under this sub-programme, this is the decision on the amendment under order number 23, the proposed parliamentary club of Liberal Democracy. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, with 21 votes against 42. (For the vote was 21.)(against 42.) I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are transferring to the budgetary user the Ministry of Environment and Space. I am putting two amendments under the sub-programme to promote efficient use and renewable energy for discussion and decision-making. The first amendment proposes a parliamentary club of Liberal Democracy, as well as a second amendment. I'm opening a debate. We're moving to the vote. We will vote on the first amendment. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, with 18 votes against 39. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number 2, the proposed parliamentary club of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, with 21 votes against 39. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to debate and decision-making under the sub-programme of regulatory frameworks, general administration and policy-making and the amendment proposed by the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. I'm opening a debate. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 39. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on the amendment under the sub-programme on water planning, protection and regulation. The amendment was proposed by the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. I'm closing the debate. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 17 votes against 40. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on the amendment under the sub-programme for biodiversity conservation and the protection of natural values. The proposed amendment of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. I'm opening a debate. She's not here. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 38. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to an amendment under sub-programme spatial planning. The amendment is proposed by the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats. I'm opening a debate. I'm concluding. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, 17 votes against 39. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on the amendment under the sub-programme to promote housing. The amendment was proposed by the Social Democrats' Group of Members. I'm opening a debate. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, with 18 votes against 38. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to debate and decision-making in the field of budgetary user of the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the Environment. Under the sub-programme to improve the environment, we have proposed an amendment by the parliamentary club of Liberal Democracy. I'm opening a debate. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 37. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. In the context of the same budgetary user, I am opening a debate and putting to the vote the amendment proposed by the Liberal Democracy Club to the sub-programme for water planning, protection and regulation. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 41. I take it the amendment has not been accepted. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 41.]] We are moving to the sub-programme area of special programmes in cases of accident. We will meet with an amendment proposed by the Liberal Democracy Club of Parliament. Who wants a word? Nobody. We're moving to a decision, we're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 41. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are transferring to the budgetary user the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs under the sub-programme of remuneration and the rights of the unemployed. We have two amendments tabled, the first by the Social Democrats' Group of Members and the second by the Liberal Democracy Club of Parliament. Who wants a word? Nobody. We're moving on to a decision, we're going to decide first on the amendment under order number one. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, with 18 votes against 39. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it that the amendment under order number one is not accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number 2, the proposed parliamentary club of the Liberal Democracy. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 42. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on the four amendments under the sub-programme to increase employment. The amendment under order number 1 is proposed by the Social Democrats' Group, under order number 2, by the same Group of Members, under order number 3 and 4 by the Group of Social Democrats. I'm opening a debate. We are moving on to a decision, we will decide on each amendment individually. We decide on the amendment under order number one. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 40. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number two. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 39. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number 3. We're making a decision. There are 59 Members present, 17 votes against 40. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to whether representatives of the Slovenian People's Party's Group can be asked for attention. Thank you. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number 4, the proposed Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, 16 votes against 38. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to debate and decision-making under the sub-programme to create new jobs and to increase the flexibility of businesses. Under this sub-programme, we have the proposed three amendments, the first proposed by the Social Democrats' Group of Members, the second by the Liberal Democracy Club of Parliament and the third by the Group of Members of the Social Democrats. I'm opening a debate. She's not here. We're moving on to decision-making. Excuse me, Comrade Lakhovnik, if you'll excuse me.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u29	I want to explain my voice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u30	Comrade Lahovnik, then allow me to conclude the debate first and you will explain your vote in the course of the vote. This concludes the debate. We're moving on to decision-making. We will vote on the amendment under order number one, the proposed parliamentary group of Social Democrats. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 41. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number 2, the proposed parliamentary club of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Here's your colleague Lakhovnik, explanation for the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u31	Thank you very much. In my own name. I will support this amendment myself. Data show that unemployment in Slovenia has increased significantly; at the end of October, this figure exceeded 94,000 unemployed people. Some of the data cited by government representatives, including the Prime Minister, were extremely misleading because they took as reference data from the end of September, where this figure was in fact slightly larger than 91,000 unemployed persons. For the first time in ten years, unemployment increased in the same year between January and October. For the first time, we are also faced with the fact that, given the same period last year, unemployment has increased dramatically. We can practically see that only for the period September to October can we talk about an increase of almost 3,000 new unemployed. Clearly, the funds earmarked for reducing unemployment for active employment policies are far too small. These are facts and the fact is that unemployment for society is the greatest social cost, because it can never be repaid again. Therefore, I think it is of utmost importance that we support the amendment that increases the resources for an active employment policy at the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, which is absolutely malnourished and if you look at the indices, you see that the resources at the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs are actually falling, which is completely illogical on data, that unemployment is actually increasing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u32	Thank you, Comrade Lakhovnik. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 39. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it that the amendment under order number 2 is not accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number 3, the candidate is the Group of Members of the Social Democrats. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 36. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 36.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision-making and debate on the amendments tabled under the sub-programme of public and development social protection programmes. Two amendments have been tabled under this sub-programme. The first amendment has been tabled by the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, and the second one has been tabled by the Social Democrats' Group. Who wants a word? Emissary Squire, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u33	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues. I will ask you again for help or support from the amendment, this time for 2007. This is the co-financing of a non-governmental sector programme of 3 million Slovenian tolars. These funds, as I have already said in the amendment to the 2006 budget complemented by the 2006 draft budget, actually enable the anti-sexual abuse association, which is the only such specialised association in Slovenia, to make it possible for it to survive or operate in 2007. Finally, government guidance is such that it is necessary, within the framework of the country or budgets, to finance the programmes and thus to enable the development of non-governmental organisations complementing the work of state authorities. I therefore ask you once again to give your support to this amendment, this time in the 2007 budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u34	Thank you. This concludes the debate. We are moving on to a decision; we will first decide on the amendment under order number 1 proposed by the Slovenian National Party parliamentary group. An explanation of the voice? Comrade Kangler, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u35	Thank you for your word. Dear Members. For the period 2006 too, I have supported the exact same amendment and I think it is appropriate that all Members of the National Assembly also support this amendment for the period 2007 only 3 million Slovenian Tolars. As the proponents have already said in the introduction, I would like NGOs in this area to have a greater incentive with such small financial assistance. In addressing the 2006 budget, I stressed that the right judicial system is so set up to deal only with perpetrators of crimes and, on the other hand, those who are injured in such sensitive criminal cases as the sexual inviolability of under 14 years of age and so on. And the legal system only wants to get the unsub behind bars. At the same time, he forgets about those most sensitive things, the injured person who is left to himself. The injured person has neither a lawyer nor any other opportunity to face such a crime. The offender is given legal protection, all available, defence and I think that NGOs here can do a great deal to help alleviate some very weak social issues in a way that helps encourage NGOs. That is why I will also support this amendment for 3 million Slovenian Tolars.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u36	Thank you, Comrade Kangler. Mr Lahovnik applied to explain the vote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Dear Members! I will support this amendment myself. I think he's needed and he's good, but, of course, I want to point out that it's 3 million tolars. For one two hundredths of gross domestic product. This is what we are talking about now, and I think the public is aware of what this is all about. You want to create some artistic impression, but now how did you respond to an initiative given by the opposition? For 3 million tolars, we will now vote on an amendment that is really needed, but 3 million tolars could easily be redeployed by the government to this item. Last but not least, Your Honor, this is less than 1% of the resources that this new Ministry without a portfolio, which will be responsible for reporting on the strategy for the development of Slovenia, will spend over the next two years. There's less than 1% of that money, and the government hasn't found it! Despite the fact that she found them elsewhere, but as I said, it seems extremely important to me to support this amendment, but of course I'm going to have a strange feeling that the government is somehow making fun of the institute of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u38	Thank you. A colleague of Bajc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u39	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Despite understanding the needs of various forms of civil integration, and I think that, for the purpose of doing so in one of these forms, I cannot support this amendment for a simple reason. I think we have all found that, both in 2006 and 2007, the funds we obtain from the European Union, or the means of purpose for various areas, are unused or not used. And I am surprised, despite the well-intentionedness of this amendment to which these funds should be allocated, that the applicants have also not proposed such an item where it could be or where such funds could be uninterruptedly needed. This is about the resources we need to implement the European Union's fund-raising programme. That's why I can't support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u40	Thank you. Ambassador Bogdan Barovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Unfortunately, we see and hear that even in cases that are necessary, which I will also prove - so I will support it to start with, and the explanation is to politicise. It's not even about who's showing anyone anything. Look at one piece of information. In the area of sexual abuse, the Centre for Social Work - see how much money these centres spend - transmitted 128 times during the period from 1.1.2004 to the last day of 2004 and 128 abuses were dealt with and acted by the Centre for Social Work in one year, in 2004. This NGO we are talking about has acted and tried and tried to help, listen well, 1,281 times. 1,281 times, which means 10 times more than an institution that employs people with beautiful salaries who are public servants who are in charge of helping. And if it's not justified to say at least three million! And now to work out of it - I'm telling everyone, including us, politics. No! No! It's not about politics, it's about showing what a shame it is that the social work centre is dealing with this case 128 times, and a non-governmental organization we're talking about and sharing these poor three million, that's one two hundred thousandths, and we're treating as if I don't know what kind of Santa Claus and Bziczek, and I don't know what kind of justification and injustice. I think it's right, and let's also look at what the social work center is doing. Of course, it's certainly a shame to talk about only three million. I mean, if we could give them a lot more.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u42	Thank you. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, with 56 votes against 2. (For the vote was 56.)( Against 2.) I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number 2, the proposaler is a parliamentary group of Social Democrats. Ambassador Maja Potrat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u43	Thank you. While I do not hope to be so generously supportive of the amendment that is before you, which we will decide whether to devote 100 million to maternity homes and shelters for children and women victims of violence. I do not know how the adoption of the law on the prevention of domestic violence is, but I do know that the legislation so far is directed so that those who are victims must seek shelter and professional assistance and not those who do. In the draft social protection programme, the government stated that the number of beds in these homes would increase, but that purpose is not supported by the necessary resources. That is why I hope that you will support this amendment and that you will not be stopped by where we took the money, because, last but not least today, respected colleagues and colleagues from the coalition, some amendments or two amendments that covered the same source have been supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u44	Thank you. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, with 21 votes against 38. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to the amendment, a contribution to the sub-programme Social Protection of Disabled Persons. The amendment, tabled by the Liberal Democracy Club of Parliament, has been supplemented and received. Who wants to discuss it? Here you go, please. Comrade Slavinz.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u45	Slavinac, thank you so much for your word. So on behalf of the LDS Club, I would like to explain only the amendment you received on the bench. All of this has already been said yesterday and I am pleased that also supported by the coalition, now it is only a matter of redistribution of resources to two sources and a reduction by the Ministry of Defence to 150 million, as coordinated with the Minister. And given that we took the first step yesterday, of course, it is now so much more useful and important that we make this second one, with which we will also conclude yesterday's work and enable those who need it most to live in more decent and decent conditions, while those who deal with them who care for them have made it possible for them to work. I therefore propose that the amended amendment, which is then, as it is said, also coordinated by the Ministry of Defence, be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u46	Thank you. This concludes the debate. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 23. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to the decision-making and debate on the amendment under the sub-programme Social Protection for Old People. The amendment is proposed by the Social Democrats' Group of Members. Under the same sub-programme, we also have the second amendment proposed by the same parliamentary group and the third amendment proposed by the same parliamentary group. I am opening a debate on all three amendments at the same time. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a decision. We'll decide first on the amendment under order number one. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 21 votes against 37. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it that the amendment under order number one is not accepted. In making my decision, I am putting an amendment under order number two proposed by the same parliamentary group, the Social Democrats' Group. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 21 votes against 36. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 36.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. In making my decision, I'm putting an amendment under order number three. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 38. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. In order to discuss and decide, I am making amendments under the Social Protection Sub-programme to the materially threatened. The amendment proposes the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, with 21 votes against 37. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. In order to discuss and decide, I am putting amendments to the budget user of the Ministry of Health under the sub-programme Investment Investments in Hospitals will meet with two amendments, both proposed by the Slovenian National Party Group. Who wants to discuss it? My friend Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u47	Thank you. Despite the clear promise made by the Secretary of State in the consideration of the proposal for the 2006 supplementary budget, that there must be a new hospital in Truba after seven years of calvary. I have been promised that because there is no regulatory legislation for public private partnership to ensure this construction on the basis of existing legislation, and I have heard the word "leasing", I will not forget that. Nevertheless, I am almost certain after seven years of going up, down, left and right that nothing will happen again in 2006. Just for the sake of security and the desire that, at least in 2007, I insist on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group and on behalf of the local community, 50,000 people will probably still be left to many Slovenes to decide, if you will, of course, for the proposed amendment, by this means that the State provides a serious purpose and, in particular, one share that will take care of normal health care, because health care paid by leasing means credit and credit means that someone wants to earn. Now, who, we'll see, and hopefully next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u48	Thank you, Comrade Barovich, for your discussion. I conclude the discussion under the Sub-programme Investment Investments in Hospitals. We are moving on to a decision on both amendments. First, we will decide on the amendment under order number one. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 40. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number 2 of the same candidates, the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 38. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Within the framework of the budgetary user, we are transferring the Ministry of Health to the sub-programme of Health Protection and Strengthening Programmes. The amendment under this sub-programme has been tabled by the Liberal Democracy Club. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, with 18 votes against 41. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are transferring to the budgetary user the Ministry of Public Administration. Under the sub-programme Construction and operation of the central information infrastructure and telecommunications technology, we have proposed an amendment by the Member's Club of Liberal Democracy. I'm opening a debate. I'm concluding. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, 17 votes against 41. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Within the framework of the budgetary user, the Ministry of Higher Education and Technology is opening amendments under the sub-programme Scientific Research. We have two amendments tabled, the first proposed by the Social Democrats Group and the second proposed by the Social Democrats Group. Who wants to discuss it? Nobody. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number one. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 40. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number 2 under the sub-programme Scientific Research. The amendment is proposed by the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats. A word? A voice explanation, Mrs. Pecanova.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u49	Thank you very much. I was late earlier to explain my vote at the first amendment. The trend of these two budgets is that investment in science and research is moving into the militant zone of our country, says the military. I am convinced that the future has only research and science dealing with the civilian field. This is why, of course, we have proposed in the parliamentary group both amendments, which are relocating resources for science and development where they belong; they are said to be in the civil sphere, in the sphere of research and scientific institutes, which, if necessary, can still carry out their research in the field of defence. However, given that research and development in the field of defence are repeatedly and again targeted, of course, logically, in terms of what they are intended to do, in militarising society, it is certainly better if the funds are located or, as we call it today, "parked" in an area that is civil, then, of course, the matter of scientists and researchers, how they will direct their research. That is why I think it would be good for colleagues and colleagues to consider whether it is right that a country such as Slovenia, which is traditionally committed to peace policy, prefers to devote resources to science in the civil sphere in the university, higher education, but not in the defence or military field. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u50	Anybody else want to explain their voice? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We are deciding on the second amendment proposed by the parliamentary group of Social Democrats. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 17 votes against 41. (For the vote was 17.)(against 41.) I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to debate and decision-making in the area of the sub-programme Information and Communication Systems. I am putting to the debate the five amendments proposed, the first by the Social Democrats' Group of Members, the second by the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club of Parliament, the third by the Social Democrats' Group of Parliament, the fourth by the Social Democrats Group of Parliament and the fifth by the Liberal Democracy Club of Parliament. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to decision-making. We will decide on the amendment under order number one. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, with 18 votes against 39. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. In making my decision, I am putting an amendment under order number 2, the proposaler of the House of Liberal Democracy. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, with 18 votes against 41. (For the vote was 18.)(against 41.) I take it the amendment has not been accepted. In making my decision, I am putting an amendment under order number 3, the proposed parliamentary group of Social Democrats. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, 17 votes against 41. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. In making my decision, I am putting an amendment under order number four, the proposed parliamentary group of Social Democrats. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, 17 votes against 40. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. I'm putting the final amendment under this sub-programme to the decision-making process. This is an amendment under order number 5 proposed by the Liberal Democracy Club. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 17 votes against 40. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting to the debate amendments under the sub-programme Programmes to promote technological development of the economy. We have two amendments: the first proposed by the Social Democrats' Group as well as the other. Who wants a word? Pechanov's emissary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u51	Thank you very much. In the Group of Social Democrats, we are well aware that without the accelerated technological development of the economy, our country will not achieve the competitiveness and level of development we have set ourselves for the goal even when we have decided to join the European Union. Our strengths, development advantages and our strengths in achieving or accelerating the overcoming of the present, I am sure that the stage of development is, above all, technological development - the economy, I stress. And that is why we have already proposed a series of amendments, which, in fact, guide our state budget all the time, as regards the development of science and technology, to redirect these funds either to higher education research and scientific institutions or directly to the economy. Here I would also like to point out that the whole range of areas where the economy can also achieve other objectives, such as, in the past, talking about the efficient use of energy or the use of renewable energy sources, where we collect from the air charging fee, this is from the CO2 charge, from the environmental charging fee, from the additional charges for charging the environment from various fuels, gas, diesel fuel, petrol and coal as well as from wood, and we forget that last year, 14 billion and 100 million tolars were collected, that for 2006 the state budget provides only 10 billion tolls of revenue from this title and in 2007 even less. Not to mention that the resolution on the national energy programme states that, for the purpose of reducing energy consumption, we should spend as much as 14 billion tolars a year, but that is not to say the spirit or the hearing because we have the projected resources for this purpose for 2006 a billion and 25 million, and for 2007 even around 900 million tolars. It is said that one fourteen after the resolution adopted by this National Assembly in 2004 and by the Kyoto Agreement, which we have ratified in this National Assembly, is the commitment of our country. Therefore, it is appropriate, of course, that, at least from the defence resources devoted to research - there is knowledge of what research and development, it is said that we are developing a weapon that will kill people, rather than developing devices, equipment, looking for ways to reduce air pollution that saves the health of people, which prolongs life, not only for us, but also for all the living world on Earth. They say we need to think globally and act locally. That is why this budget also shows that we are not thinking globally, that we are not acting locally, but we are only thinking about how some of the user segments that we will acquire on the basis of fictitious calls can be developed by the arms industry. And that is why, of course, I support all these amendments, which will make it possible to improve the life of us in Slovenia and the wider environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u52	Thank you. Does anyone else want a word under the Sub-programme Programmes for the Promotion of Technological Development and Economics? [[No, no, ……]] Then I conclude the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number one proposed by the parliamentary group of Social Democrats. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, with 18 votes against 39. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number two proposed by the parliamentary group of Social Democrats. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, with 18 votes against 40. (For the vote was 18.)(against 40.) I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to the debate on the amendment tabled by the Social Democrats Group in the framework of the Higher Education Sub-programme. Anybody want a word? No, no, no. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 39. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Under the same sub-programme of Higher Education, we also have the amendment of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, with 18 votes against 38. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to the debate on the two amendments under the Sub-Programme of Postgraduate Education. The first amendment is proposed by the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats and the second proposed by the Club of Parliament of Liberal Democracy. I'm opening a debate. She's not here. We're moving to the vote. We will vote on both amendments separately. We are voting on the first amendment proposed by the parliamentary group of Social Democrats. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 16 votes against 39. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number 2, the proposed parliamentary club of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 17 votes against 39. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the three amendments under the Sub-Study Assistance Sub-programme. The first is proposed by the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group; the second is proposed by the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club and the third is proposed by the Social Democrats' Group. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Comrade Barovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Although I know what the outcome will be, like everyone else, and I don't want to steal time, but I warn you, colleagues and colleagues, take this amendment, at least give it to yourself. As far as the student and student populations were concerned, on the one hand, they will be reflected in both the Income Act and the amendments and the adoption of the budget. Above all, we are concerned about the regulation of student homes, we are concerned about all of us, at least in the Slovenian National Party, how some, in fact, are serving illegally, exploiting young people. The worst consequence of all this is that, in addition to the social crises arising from the financing of private homes for these young people, there is also a decline in the quality of education, especially at the university, which all those of us who were in the previous term were so excited at the University of Primorsk, where the indicators, as you could see, are horrifying, because, I don't know, a dozen or fewer students can be in for this organised home, but all the others - find themselves as you can and want. And this "find yourself" is sometimes a walk in the wrong ways.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u54	Thank you. There's a member of Parliament, Mr. Pecan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u55	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. We will support all three amendments in this sub-programme in the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats. Because we know that there is no chance that they will be accepted, but we would like to warn all Members who are so intensely pressing the "against" button that it is also here for their children or perhaps even their grandchildren. That in student homes it is not possible to get room for children, especially - well, they are no longer children, but for young people - in Maribor and in Primorska. Because these are younger universities, because the funding for the construction of student homes is always too small, however, in student homes there are conditions for study, for work, including research work when we provide space for postgraduate studies for young researchers, an essential element of a successful study. That we - specifically for the municipalities of Primorska I can say this not only about the three municipalities of Slovenia, but also about all municipalities of southern Primorska, from Ilirska Bistrica, Sežana, Hrpelje, Kozina, Koper, Izola and Piran - decided that we would give the universities of Primorska land which are habitable, which are building plots, so that they could ensure that the University of Primorska will be able to provide not only space for study, not only for lectures, not only for university libraries, but also for students that they will have a place to stay or study in their free time. For this reason, I believe that, when we speak, for example, in the amendment 700 million dollars proposed by the Slovenian national parties, this is a small amount against the fact that municipalities, compared, of course, to the scale of the budgets of these municipalities, are giving to the University of Primorsk, and indirectly to the country, of course, land worth some 100 million tolars. In particular, Isol has a budget of about 300 million tolars worth of land and about 250 million tolars worth of buildings. What resources should the State provide to ensure that students and professors are provided with normal work, because what they are doing today means development for future generations in this country. Thus, investment in these generations certainly means development for Slovenia, the first, meeting the objectives of the Lisbon Strategy and, after all, meeting the objectives of the reformist programme of this government, which works differently; it is said not by giving to those who need help, but by giving to those who are already rich in one way or another. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u56	Thank you. Member Gulic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u57	Respectable and respected, distinguished president. What we talk a lot about students lately - and students of course - but things are so in a way double-faced. We are actually arguing here about whether we would allow people to study with dignity or give them more and better, but of course in what other debate we hear about how students should not work, just study. How can they study if, of course, conditions are poor if there is no Internet in the student homes, if they are somehow threatened to take those vouchers away from them? They're gonna have to work harder. Investment in the future is, of course, an investment in people. We hear that a lot of times, just like a general phrase. But when it comes to specific matters, of course we can talk about a million here, two million there, of course, and some significant numbers are happily pressed against, if, I think sometimes, in this mandate - that is not necessary, they will do something about students, students and the Slovenian future later. In principle, we'd all be "yes", but we'll see in a concrete moment now, of course, I'll be "yes".
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u58	Thank you. I give my word to Minister Zupan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u59	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. The problem of student homes is, of course, extremely pressing and the government knows precisely that student homes are urgently needed and we are building fast through the system. This year, for example, in Maribor alone, the entire phase was completed, we built 240 beds. Three homes are being built in Ljubljana and they will be completed next year. The fact is that in Primorska, due to known credit problems, because the university is not yet in this credit system, it is precisely in the process of this law that we will give the university the opportunity to rent credits, but it is important to take into account: at this moment, students do not want to take up a billion 700 million credits to pay to students' homes and we are looking at the budget to pay the bills. Students don't want to take credit because they demand it as property. So the contribution paid by employers for cheap labour is the contribution of employers, they want students to own and take over as property. Student organization, I'm sorry, the student organization requires that. We have been conducting very, very hard negotiations here for some time, and they want to do so on the basis of a letter or agreement signed on 2 December 2004, one day before we took over our ministry, it was signed that the state will give them or enable them to register ownership. This was in a period of time, entirely at a time when the outgoing government only does current obligations. And on this basis, students now demand something that is, of course, completely out of the fund and here bind us with a huge amount of resources, that we have to pay the bills for actually those homes that are being built, are being built, because the accounts are here and they are running late interest, and they do not want to rent a loan for which they are entitled and have all the legal basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u60	Thank you. Member Mitja Slavinec has been reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u61	Thank you so much for saying that. Of course, I also appeal to the Minister-designate, despite this explanation, to support this amendment and to achieve that the study condition is improved mainly for students coming out of university centres. As an illustration, let me say that, for example, for undergraduate students, young researchers, the home of undergraduate students in Ljubljana is co-financed by the budget and the home of undergraduate students in Maribor is not co-financed by the budget. And we can already see very large anomalies here, even more so, because we have heard before that the situation outside Ljubljana is significantly worse than in Ljubljana, where tradition is also significantly longer. However, I would not want the negotiations that are being held by those to whom these 10 belong, or how much of the student work, then to burn down on students who do not want to accept this or that. Students simply by their work, which provides them with suitable and often necessary standards to study, of course also invest or fill one cashier's service, which then gives them further, but they have no influence on how this money is then spent, how those who receive these percentages are allocated forward, so I am just warning that it is not the most fair place to accuse students of not accepting the conditions proposed by the government, and whatever these conditions are. For this reason, let us cut these knots and support the amendments proposed by the proposers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u62	Thank you. This concludes the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the individual. I apologize, Dr. Slavko Gaber. You have the floor in the debate. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u63	Mr Vice-President, Members and Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen! This student issue, especially the issue of student homes, is something that has been dragging around this hall for a long time in various forms of discussion. I'd like to say two. First of all, it seems to me that the cycle of these investments, which started two, three years ago, has been very accelerated to complete the dynamics and that is why I will support the proposed supplement here. However, I would like to ask the distinguished colleague of the Minister, and perhaps even more the Minister of Finance, to consider, however, their position, which is different from that of the former government, so that they will not leave the student organisation to register as co-owners for the share of the funds for which they hire and repay the loan. This has been the subject of a dispute for several months now, blocking normal construction. It seems to me that the logic here is one that is not necessary, Sir Bajuk, as far as I understand it, this country has more problems with too much property to worry about, and it will be fine for students to enter as co-owners where they pay for their funds and help build. This suggests a change of heart, making it easier and faster to close down the entire structure.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u64	Thank you. This concludes the debate. Before deciding, however, I will ask this esteemed assembly, according to our planned work plan, there was a break between one and the other hours, but if we now pull forward and vote on all - please allow me to say - about all the proposed amendments, it means that we can take a single break later and thus allow us to end the afternoon work more quickly. My proposal is to continue, however, if anyone opposes to show or order their opposition by raising their hands, I will suspend the meeting and continue at two o'clock. Does anyone object to the proposal? No, no, no. This means that we can continue the meeting as I have proposed. So, we're in the decision-making phase. We are moving on to a decision on Article 1 or the first amendment under the Study Aid Sub-programme. The amendment is proposed by the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. An explanation of the voice? Welcome to the House of Commons.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u65	Thank you very much. I will explain my own voice and I would just like to say that the explanation is that many more student homes could be built if the student organisation agreed to rent a loan that would then be paid 20 to 25 years ago, says it burdened the student organisation's income, but whatever it is, we know that there are a lot of mistakes, that there are a lot of things going on within this student organisation, but these are our young people who would hang an obligation and as a student organisation they would not have any right to own. It is funny that, first of all, the state decrees that part of the revenue that is supposed to be a tax or a tax is assigned to a legal person - a student organisation can almost be called a person of public law - and then be denied the right to property. According to this logic, the municipality, which receives 35% of the income at the will of this country, should not, at the will of this national assembly, be the owner of the property that we acquire at the expense of this 35%. I believe that this is too much of a diversion and that we cannot just condemn some such large organisation as a student organisation that it does not have the right to own property. So you can rent a billion 750 million loans, a loan -- you can be so happy that you can pay it off and the property is from the state. This is how we have experienced, this is a kind of nationalisation, and I can only say that we have already experienced the nationalization of hospitals and something else.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u66	Thank you. We're moving to the vote. So we're voting on an amendment under order number one. We're voting. There were 59 Members and Members present and 22 votes against 34 for the proposed amendment. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 34.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. In my decision-making I am putting an amendment under order number 2, the proposaler is the Member of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 34. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 34.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. In making my decision, I am putting an amendment under order number 3, and the proposaler is a parliamentary group of Social Democrats. Anybody want to explain their voice? No, no, no. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 52 Members and Members present, with 21 votes against 30. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 30.]] We are moving to the budget user area, the Ministry of Education and Sport and under the sub-programme Primary Education we have two amendments tabled. The first amendment was tabled by the Liberal Democracy Club and the second amendment was tabled by the Social Democrats Group. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to decision-making. We decide on the amendment under order number 1, by the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present, with 21 votes against 34. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 34.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number two. Drafting member group of Social Democrats. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, with 21 votes against 34. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 34.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. In deciding, I am putting to the debate the sub-programme of General Secondary and Vocational Education and the amendment of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group. Who wants to discuss it? My friend Zagorac.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u67	Thank you for your word, chairman. Your Honors are here! This is an amendment which, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members, has been tabled by a colleague of Saša Pece, who unfortunately cannot explain it because he is in charge of the meeting, and allow me to explain it very briefly myself. The guidelines for the development of vocational and vocational education weighs more closely with regional development programmes, which should allow for a faster response of the vocational school to the challenges of the environment in the region and in the industry. More than obvious is the link between the development function of the secondary school for catering and tourism in Maribor and the interested economy, which, last but not least, can be heard in the dedicated tourist profession. Since 1961, the secondary school for catering and tourism in Maribor has been operating in a school building which, with its facilities and teaching, was considered obsolete by its specific educational programmes 20 years ago. Today, this school is working under difficult working conditions. Today, the school does not meet any conditions for the implementation of the educational process. Water installation and sewerage have evaporated, students moving from hour to hour through various buildings in the city of Maribor. Since three extended school kitchens are available to students and apprentices, every new school year is faced with a number of problems when it wants to follow new developments and trends in vocational education, it is more than understandable that the renewal of this school is necessary. That's why I'm calling on you to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u68	Thank you. This concludes the debate. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present, with 40, 5 votes against. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving to debate and decision-making Only to debate on the amendment of the sub-programme Help in primary education and Help in secondary education, and this debate will be debated only on my part, because I inform you that the amendment has not been tabled in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because it does not respect the rule on the balance between budgetary revenue and expenditure. [[...]] Although the proposed source of funds is indicated in the explanation of the amendments, the purpose of the amendment is not particularly explained. This concludes the debate and brings us to a discussion and decision under the sub-programme Help in Secondary Education, where we will meet with an amendment, the amendment is proposed by the Liberal Democracy Club. Who wants to discuss it? Nobody. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 52 Members and Members present, 17 votes against 34. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 34.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to a debate within or in the field of the budgetary user of the Ministry of Culture, in the sub-programme Conservation of Cultural Heritage, we are meeting with five amendments. From here on out, Vice President Klavor is taking over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u69	Here we go, one, two, three, four, five points. Would anyone like to discuss it, please? No, no, no. Then let's move on to the first amendment. Here you go, Mrs. Shirca.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u70	As I understand it, is that an explanation for my vote, Vice President?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u71	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u72	As I understand it's an explanation for the vote, you've already come to a decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u73	Explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u74	On my behalf, I will say that the amendment, as proposed by the Slovenian National Party or as defended by the President of the Slovenian National Party and at the same time by the President of the Aviation Union of Slovenia, when he made a five-minute call in the National Assembly on Friday and interpreted the item for 2006, is the same for 2007, and this amendment makes me very difficult. The airport museum, as we are at this budgetary debate, has received 10 plus 10 plus 10 according to current logic and is likely to have an additional 10 million tolars. I have a dilemma, and for this reason I will also abstain from this amendment because of also the views on correspondence or the responses of the Ministry of Culture which have been given, they have been explained to the Member when he addressed the government by means of a question sent to him for reasons why this museum should still have. Not only is this Member's question about the request, so to speak, to Mr Jelinčič, that he is given a certain position as an instigator, a driving engine for the construction of this museum, but the government has also raised a number of open questions that relate not only to the issue of urban and spatial acts, but also to other financial items. The government representative told us last time that the Commission dealing with the construction of this airport museum has decided on a solution that these amendments do not advocate. In this case, it seems to me that there is some kind of blackmail and that all parameters here are not yet determined or studied. This kind of solubility, which may also call for a conflict of interest that the said initiator of this amendment, or a representative of the party, has, as has already been said, we are doing enough of the concerns and dilemma to maintain myself in this vote, regardless of the fact that he has already seized 30 million. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u75	Thank you. We move on to decision-making in point 1. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 6. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against six.]] The amendment was adopted. We are moving on to decision on point 2. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present, 11 votes against 35. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 35.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We're moving to the third point of the amendment. Mrs. Shirca, an explanation of the voice? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u76	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Members. I would like to reiterate that the budget, as it was prepared for 2006, as it was for 2007 in the field of culture, does not respect the legal provisions. In the case of this amendment, the law on the implementation of certain necessary cultural programmes is not respected. And the government predicted only 500 million SITs in the area of cultural tolar, and the law speaks of 2 billion. At the same time, the government has made great efforts to provide financial compensation in another area, where there is no law at all. It thus provided a billion tolars for the media pluralisation fund, for a law that has not yet been implemented, while here for the law that is in force, of course, the funds, as planned, are not respected. At the same time, the Government or the Ministry of Culture has accelerated the issuance of decrees which mean that monuments in certain areas will be protected to a greater extent than they could be, and will in some way prevent their adaptation and thereby burden the country or the local community. All I'm saying is Sugar, Stadium, and College. At the same time, the government has not made an effort in the part where it has negotiated with the European Union and where the members of the European Union have proposed exemption from tax reliefs in investing in the restoration of cultural monuments or religious buildings, has not made an effort to listen and also to take part in those European members who propose such facilitations. In short, from the next amendment, there is only a desire to correct inconsistencies in the budget lines of the Ministry of Culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u77	Thank you very much. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. I note that 50 Members and Members voted for 16 to 34. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 34.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. I'm moving on to point four. We're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There were 50 votes in favour of 14 and 36. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 36.]] I take it that the amendment under point four has not been accepted. Moving to point five, voting. 49 Members and Members, 13 votes against 36. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 36.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to the sub-programme of cultural programmes of special groups in the Republic of Slovenia. We have one point of the Italian and Hungarian national groups. Anybody want a word? No, no, no. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present, for 13, for 36. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 36.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We're moving to the subroutine of librarying and publishing. Just one point. Anybody want a word? No, no, no. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. 52 Members and Members voted in favour of 14, against 38. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 38.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving to a sub-programme of awards and social rights in the field of culture. Dot, just one point. Anybody want a word? Mr. Sculpture, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u78	Thank you very much. So, dear colleagues, colleagues, Mr Vice-President and ministers in the government, unfortunately there is no competent minister. I would like to warn you at this amendment that culture is not only monuments, culture is not only public institutions, libraries, etc., but culture is not only what is expected in the last year, it is simply to regulate the situation in the media and especially on public television, but culture is some activity that is in fact the most individual and individualist of all. The vast majority of all these segments and public institutions and memorial services, and ultimately the media, are based on work, as they are called in one word, free morals. These free moral agents must take care of their survival in all respects. The State does not provide them with some infrastructure like others, the State does not normally provide them with a job, empowers them to register, and has also given them a part over the decades, I will say these compensations, in some specific respects compensation for the payment of contributions and also have the right to special pensions if they meet certain conditions. Unfortunately, this latter was lifted by the previous government or frozen, and this amendment points out that there are a large number of people who are struggling very hard, and they are actually based on what we call the Slovenian cultural corps. As a rule, these people cannot be caught in customer networks and are not really liked by any party policy, not by such or otherwise, because they are primarily committed to their individual creativity. The amendment seeks to increase funds to facilitate the ministry's allocation of more of these rights in this area and thereby demonstrate some interest in what is called truly lively creativity. You can say it's not the best place to take this money, it's always possible. However, the vote of such an amendment also allows for a possible correction in a part called the harmonisation amendment if there is a desire to do so. All these years, when I speak in Parliament, I always perform in this issue, and it is very difficult to break the circle of this majority, which I think is free people, what individual creators are, afraid. There is a serious fear of these free men, which I understand to some extent, but I don't know why there is no respect for their work. Respect would be shown in the way that this mechanism of promotion, self-reliance and freedom of work is truly supported. This is ultimately significantly cheaper than any job in the public sector, several times cheaper. These resources will also be needed in the next two budgets because the price has risen from 3.9 million to 6 million, to which the right to pay contributions is still valid and the ministry will have difficulties in recognising these rights. In fact, these funds can potentially be counted on only if we talk about culture, the good three thousand, the 3 thousand 500 people. So far, less than half of these people have been deprived of these rights from this title. If we increase this amount, of course, it will be far from everyone can count on these rights. Maybe a bad half, but still, if you look at it, it's one rare activity that doesn't have its own lobby, just like farmers or someone else in this national council. At the same time, it does what it does to preserve language, culture and identity. I hope I've convinced someone. Discipline is, I'll say, a reasonable thing when it's based on arguments. But when there is no argument, it is more than a question of discipline, a question of blind faith. There are always freemen fighting against this one, and without that, in fact, if you want, there would be no Slovenians as a nation.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mrs. Shirca.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u80	Dear Minister Bajuk! Your future colleague would have told those people about whom he spoke to his colleague, the independent cultural workers or the liberals, as we call them, in short, your future colleague in the government, or representatives of modern economists, would have called these people, independent creators, that they are holy cows and that, in fact, what they are, they are impossible to deserve because they are privileged. But, yes, two-thirds of the budget of the Ministry of Culture is for public sector salaries, 1 thousand 100 independent cultural workers, as far as the state pays them the minimum allowances for health, pension and disability and other insurance, there is no large sum, given the return and recovery they bring to the state, and these earnings are measurable, not as Mr. Darkic says they cannot be measured with a metre. In short, the ministry will have problems when the spectrum of these people increases and if not today, you will probably have to correct these numbers at the time of the rebalancing, unless the ministry starts to introduce new professional criteria for who can get this status and who can't. That's possible, too. But I am calling for a more preventive provision here to open up the possibilities of this type of entourage and this expansion. I understand that it would have been easier for the coalition to support this amendment if it had been written like the one you voted recently since you took the money from the committee to prevent corruption from investing in maintenance in secondary school, but of course we have not decided on this, which is the only logical thing. In short, you will help the government if you support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u81	We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present. There were 18 votes against 35. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 35.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to another amendment, this is the last, final, subroutine cultural tolar, public institutions. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. Here's the explanation for the voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u82	On behalf of the House of Representatives. Your Honor! Children also do not have a special lobby in the National Assembly, although they are often mentioned at the declaratory level when talking about the demographic picture of the country of Slovenia. And the puppet theater activity is intended for them in the majority. The construction of the puppet theatre in Maribor has already been a priority in the Cultural Tolar Act, if so popularly said, already in the first and it is one in the second. Without any special changes, the Minister of Culture has expressed himself as a different set of priorities in culture. And if by performance or quality indicators we measure the activity of puppet theatre in Maribor, there is no reason to challenge their activities. It is also not a public institution whose activity would be limited only to the area of Maribor. It would be good for someone to look at how a small group is doing with great effort and denial in fact a tremendous work. But this is obviously not enough to allocate funds to build a new puppet theatre, which, after many changes in location and after a very, very polished investment, which is rational, has also received support in the budget. I don't know if it's worth losing words in this national council to support such an amendment because neither my client nor I have done any service to this government to get a discharge and to support this amendment. We voted on the amendments that included the military, and that was no problem, because it was an agreement, as I was told, that I should specifically ask the minister to give the money. But we have already heard the words of our colleague Školč, who is an old parliamentary cat, that if the will of the government were to support this activity, then we could also find a solution within the framework of the harmonisation amendment, and I will be very pleased to see how some amendments adopted today will be fulfilled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u83	Thank you very much, ma'am. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. I note that 52 Members and Members voted for 18 to 34. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 34.]] The amendment was not accepted. We have thus concluded our decisions on the amendments and are moving on to a decision on the specific part of the supplementary draft budget as a whole. We're voting. 52 Members and Members voted, 40 to 11. I note that a specific part of the supplementary draft budget has been fully adopted. We are moving on to the consideration of the plan for the development programmes of the supplementary draft budget. Who wants a word? Here you go, Minister Bajuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u84	Mr President-in-Office. In view of the amendments adopted in this part of the budget, I note that the general and specific parts are not harmonised and that there is a need for a harmonisation amendment, which the Government will immediately prepare. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? Anyone else want a word? No, no, no. We are moving on to a decision on the plan for the development of the programmes of the supplementary draft budget. We're voting. 49 Members and Members, 37 votes to 10. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 10.]] I note that the development programme plan has been adopted. We have completed our decision-making on individual parts of the state budget's complementary proposal. Since the Prime Minister has already said that coordination is necessary, I give one hour's rest, at the same time adding 1 hour, so we will be in 2 hours, because it was supposed to be the mother's working body and it has already been said that 1 hour will be here, please. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The mother's working body will be convened 40 minutes after this meeting, in 40 minutes and will consider a coordinated proposal, I hope that the meeting can continue in 1 hour. [[...]] [[A voice from behind.]] In the living room. [[...]] Now there's a reference [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u87	If you think that's true, then it's now three quarters to two, at 1.45, and from 2.45 minutes to meet. I said 2:45.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u88	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that we will continue this meeting at 3 p.m. because the committee has not yet finished its procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u89	I continue with the adjourned meeting of the National Assembly and inform you that the parent working body has carried out the coordination procedure, but it would take some time to reproduce the material and get it on the bench. For this reason, in accordance with Rule 65 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that we continue our work with point 4 and I ask that we decide on this. We're voting. We will decide again because there were not enough Members in the Chamber. Please. We decide or vote again. We're voting. As this path has not gone forward, I am adjourning the session in 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u90	We continue with the adjourned meeting of the National Assembly and inform you of the following. Although I said earlier that we will continue with the 4th item of the agenda and wait for the text of the harmonisation amendments to be reproduced, our indiscretion also encouraged us to have both the harmonisation amendments on the table. For 2006 and 2007. That is why we will continue with this agenda item, with the end of agenda item 1, which is the consideration of the supplementary draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2006. We are moving on to the debate and vote on the government's amendment to harmonise the 2006 state budget proposal. Would you like a representative of the government? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like to speak to a representative of the mother's working body? Neither do I. I give the floor to representatives of the parliamentary groups if anyone wants a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] This concludes the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to harmonise the state budget proposal. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, with 40 votes against 9. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I take it that the harmonisation amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2006 as a whole. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, for 41, for 18. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 18.]] I note that the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2006 has been adopted. On the basis of Rule 163, paragraph 8, of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that the Council adopt the following proposal for a decision. The National Assembly authorises the President of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, Bojan Starman, MEP Milan Petk and Member Cyril Testen to draw up the final text of the 2006 State budget on cooperation with the Ministry of Finance and the Legislative and Legal Service of the Assembly on the basis of the decisions taken by the Council. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I conclude the debate and move on to a decision on the proposed decision. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 3. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of item 2 of the agenda, which is the consideration of the supplementary draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2007. We are moving on to the debate and vote on the government's amendment to harmonise the 2007 state budget proposal. Does the government want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Does the mother body want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Does any of the parliamentary groups want to discuss it? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to harmonise the state budget proposal. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, with 40 votes against 5. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it that the harmonisation amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2007 as a whole. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, with 40 votes against 17. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 17.]] I note that the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2007 has been adopted. On the basis of Rule 163, paragraph 3, of the Rules of Procedure, I propose to the assembly that it adopt the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly authorises the President of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, Mr Bojan Starman and Mr Milan Petk and Mr Cyril Testen, in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance and the Legislative Service of the Assembly, to draw up, on the basis of the decisions taken by the Assembly, the final text of the 2007 State budget. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I conclude the debate and move on to a decision on the proposed decision. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 1. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 3. On the eve of the day-to-day schedule, this is the draft law on the implementation of the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for the years 2006 and 2007, urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I give the floor to a government representative for further explanation. Please, Minister Bajuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u91	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. The implementation of the 2006 and 2007 budgets, which this National Assembly has just adopted, requires the consideration and adoption of a specific ZIPRO law aimed at regulating and implementing the budget for each year. In short, I would like to highlight some of the new or amended provisions introduced by the proposed law in relation to the existing law on the implementation of the budget for 2004 and 2005. First time. The proposed law reduces the number of dedicated budget revenues slightly, and the proposed law also eliminates the transfer of unused spending rights from Slovenian participation. The Government therefore takes into account the proposal of the Court of Auditors from the analysis of the most frequent and repeated infringements of the rules found in the Court of Auditors’ audit reports, that the Public Finances Act, and in particular in the Law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, should remove exceptions which derogate from the budgetary principles of the Public Finance Act and stated in point 1 that the number of assigned revenue should be reduced in the Law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, which is proposed in Article 11. Another time. A provision is included which allows the European Union, on a proposal from the Ministry of Finance and for the purpose of the Presidency, to open up new items during the year and determine how to ensure the rights of consumption on them. Article 7 Third time. As far as the structural and cohesion policy of the European Union is concerned, the law allows the managing authorities, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Service for Local Self-Government and Regional Policy to propose that, if structural cohesion policy funds are not used in accordance with the planned dynamics, this government should propose redistribution of spending rights to the user who could use these funds more quickly. This is mainly the purpose of improving the absorption of the European Union's structural cohesion policy. In addition, in order to improve the absorption of structural cohesion policy funds, users are allowed to make this sum of budgetary resources in structural cohesion policy projects by 20% more than the spending rights guaranteed in the 2007 budget. This allows budget users to obtain a larger set of projects to draw on EU funds. Fourth time. The budgetary users, and in Article 21 of the proposed law, may, in the course of the current year, initiate a commitment process for the full value of the project included in the development programme plan, with the law setting out the extent of commitment to contracts in individual years. Fifth. The proposed law for the implementation of the budget for 2006 and 2007 introduces a novelty that leases or leases, except where the ownership right passes or can be transferred to the lessee, may be concluded for a period not to exceed one year or for an indefinite period of time with a notice period not to exceed six months. This allows for greater flexibility and more rational behaviour in the conclusion of rental contracts, as set out in Article 21. Six. For leases where ownership rights are passed or may be transferred to a lessee, the consent of the government or the Ministry of Finance is required. The consent of the Ministry of Finance is also required under the proposed Article 21 for those contracts concluded by direct consumers of municipal budgets. It's a week. When writing off debts to the Republic of Slovenia, the law additionally limits the amount of write-offs to 50 thousand tolars in each year. Eight. The law sets the amount of eligible consumption per capita of 103 thousand 638 tolars for 2006 and 108 thousand 302 thousand tolars for 2007. On the basis of the findings of the Court of Auditors on the audit of the final accounts of the 2004 budget, the law provides that in the final calculation of the financial settlement for 2005 and 2006, the assessment of the municipality’s own revenue shall take into account the duties laid down in Articles 21 and 22 of the Law on the Financing of Communities for which the rates have been fixed by law at the level realised. For items for which the rates are not established by law and in the estimated amount taken into account in the recalculation of the corresponding financial settlement assets. And finally. Nine. A new provision has also been made that the competent ministries for co-financing the projects of municipalities from the state budget should publish public calls for the collection of the applications of municipalities within one month of the entry into force of this Act. With this provision, the government wants to accelerate co-financing of municipal projects from the state budget. And finally another general comment. As far as the legal transfer is concerned, on the basis of the budget adopted, I would like to mention that, while the measure of flexibility set is appropriate, we assess that the options currently in force and also proposed are too large in some sense and are not in line with some normal relationship between the executive authority and the national assembly. Above all, it is those provisions from Article 14 onwards where the actual executive power is given a very great flexibility to redistribute funds for other purposes than was actually approved by this National Assembly. Of course, such flexibility requires that we review it and introduce a better systemic solution in the future. But we can't just start with changes in the law, we really need to start a change of opinion and how the budget is being prepared. This government has simply taken over a stable situation in which all budgetary users have been used to the fact that the executive power actually has this flexibility. In the preparation of the 2006 and 2007 budget, we have set out different guidelines, more precise guidelines that require greater accuracy in their work from budgetary users. On the basis of the implementation of the 2005 budget, when we have data available on the implementation of the budget and everything necessary to reach the final budget, we will be able to assess how we can change these things, whether we have already achieved this objective or not, but for now it would be irresponsible on our part to change it, but we are working on it, and we are confident that in the coming draft of the budget, this is the real balance of the 2007 budget that we have already announced in order to report it, it will certainly come with different constraints that will not give the executive authorities the flexibility that these laws now provide. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u92	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. I ask the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Bojan Starman, to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u93	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Respectable. At its 11th and 11th meetings, on 7.12.2005, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on Finance and Monetary Policy also considered a proposal for a law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2006 and 2007. He took note of the opinion of the Commission of the State Council, the proposal for an amendment to the fourth paragraph of Article 21 of the Ministry of Environment and Space, the opinion of the Committee on Budgetary Control and the proposals for amendments to the Committee, on the basis of an opinion delivered by the Legislative and Legal Service. For consideration at the meeting, the following amendments were tabled by qualified candidates - amendments to the 47th and new 47tha members of the Coalition's parliamentary groups and amendments to the 16, 17, 18, 20, 21, 30, 31st Articles, of 5.12.2005 and 6.12.2005, of the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club. At the Committee's own meeting, amendments were also tabled at the time of consideration of the individual articles to Articles 2, 5, 26, 33 and 35, the Ambassador of the Master of Mr Cwickl, and the initiative for amendments to the Committee's amendments to Article 21, paragraph 22, of the legislative proposal, Member of Mr Willi Trofenik. The fact is that the implementation of the bill of review is a condition for the implementation of the budget with the basic objective of legalising solutions that will enable the current, smooth and effective implementation of the budget adopted. The financial implications are adequate to the financial implications that it has brought and provides for the budgets adopted for 2006 and for 2007. In the debate, we touched on some individual items where some of the candidates tried to change certain government powers in changing budget lines during the year, one among sub-programmes from fifteen in the previous system to 10 and in groups from 3 to 2. The solution was also proposed to reduce the limit on contracts, public contracts again from 10 to 5 and from 20 to 10, and also the proposal by Member Trofenik to define more precisely what the revenues from the replacement of the building land, which he also specified in the amendment, are. Among the amendments of qualified candidates, the Committee adopted the amendment of the LDS Group of Members to Article 21 and the amendment of the coalition groups of Members to Article 37. At the same time, the amendment to Article 21 of the Working Paper was considered unnecessary. The Committee did not adopt the amendments to the 16th, 17th two amendments, to the 18th and 20th Members of the Liberal Democracy Club, and to the 2, 33rd, 35th Members of the Milan M. Cwickle Club. The harmonisation amendments and amendments, which have been coordinated on the basis of the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, have been adopted. Finally, a vote was taken on the individual articles of the legislative proposal which were adopted and, pursuant to Article 133, paragraph 1, of the amendment adopted, a supplementary draft law, which is an integral part of this report and which includes all the amendments adopted by the Committee. I therefore propose that, in such a form, the law on the implementation of the budget should also be approved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Here comes the presentation of the parliamentary groups. Mr Ivan Yelen will present this on behalf of the DeSUS.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u95	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Members and Members of Parliament, Mr Minister of Finance. The Budget Implementation Act, together with the budget, lays down or provides the legal basis for the adoption of those documents. It regulates the implementation of the budget for the next two years and, above all, controls budgetary spending. With regard to restrictions on redistribution of funds, it would be consistent to stick to the proposed one, otherwise there could be untransparent, unclear anomalies. We would draw attention to the amendment of Article 47a, which would specifically determine or determine the amount of the value added tax rate for 2007. Estimates of the expected revenue shall be prepared or made that implement the provisions or comply with the law on the implementation of the budget. In our DeSUS Group, we reiterate the change in the key elements of tax legislation that the government is implementing through the 2006 and 2007 Budget Implementation Act and not through the value added law, which is particularly true in determining the rate of value added tax. We will undoubtedly monitor the tax situation and move constructively towards key decisions. Especially with regard to social dispersion and social inequality. Therefore, in our DeSUS Group, we believe that through such interventions the government is beyond its powers under the Public Finance Act. With regard to socio-economic reforms, we must stress that reform changes, the introduction of the EDS can contribute to reducing social inequality and increasing fragmentation. It is certainly necessary to ensure the coverage of revenue by expenditure, the absence of tax reliefs on expenditure from legal persons based on legally defined items. In our view, it would be appropriate to re-examine and re-defined certain concepts which are mainly of a technical accounting nature. The proposal contains some positive changes, in particular regarding the financing of municipalities. The appropriate spending of municipalities, the participation of the state in investment for the financing of municipalities, the acquisition of funds from the European Union, is, in our view, to be regulated by the Law on Community Financing. Public procurement should also be provided with clearly defined provisions. In our view, however, there will be a need for even more control over the borrowing of the budget. In the DeSUS Group, we are working towards greater coordination between each other in terms of taking account of the budgetary memorandum, which is the basis of the law on public finances and the law on the implementation of the budget. Above all, for 2007 we believe that economic development policy has been re-evaluated. The very feasibility of the budgets for the next two years will be difficult, in particular for 2007 in which there is still a lot of ignorance about the future financial perspective of the European Union. Despite our concerns, in our DeSUS Group, we will support the draft law on the implementation of the budget in the Republic of Slovenia for 2006 and 2007.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u96	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDS Group, Mrs Polonca Dobrajc has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u97	Dear President, fellow Members, fellow Members! In order to avoid repeating the reasons for the adoption of the proposed law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2006 and 2007, which has already been submitted by the drafter of the proposed law, on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, she would point out only a few other reasons why the SDS Group would support the proposal. In view of the fact that the draft law is intended to lay down general rules on the implementation of the budget and the tax measures that the Government may use to balance the budget in the event of poorer economic developments, it would be reasonable to point out that the sub-section on the reallocation of spending rights provides that the rights of use for the implementation of national programmes and laws are guaranteed in the amount fixed by the budget, irrespective of the amount provided for by the national programme or by specific law. It should be stressed that this applies to all national programmes. It is then necessary to state that the sub-chapter on budgetary funds lists all the budgetary funds that will operate in 2006 and 2007 that it is also necessary to point out that, as regards the borrowing and acceptance of State and public sector guarantees and debt acquisitions, there is a clear way of ensuring the rights of use for the payment of State guarantee obligations exceeding the rights of use in the Ministry of Finance, as well as the extent of the debt and guarantees of public sector legal persons for 2006 and 2007. Finally, the proposed solution in the chapter on the availability of wage funds could also be highlighted, namely that users should not create deficits on budget items that go beyond payroll when taking over and paying their salaries. This means that employment, promotion and remuneration of employees are allowed only within the framework of the budget of the rights of consumption guaranteed in the financial plan of the direct user. For the reasons mentioned above and the reasons given on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group will support the proposed bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u98	Thank you very much. On behalf of the LDS Group, Mr Aloise Posedel has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u99	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to everyone in the hall. On behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club, I would like to give an opinion on the law on the implementation of the budget for 2006 and 2007, and with all the importance of this law, which has been put forward by the proposer and the previous speakers, I can say that the proposal for a law as before us and as presented by the government is a great disappointment to us. Disappointment, first of all, because we adopt such an important law quickly, is clearly becoming the practice of this government, since it makes it impossible to deal with the individual law more seriously and professionally. Even more disappointing are the solutions outlined by the Government in this law, which increase the level of earmarked revenue and expenditure of the budget and increase the right to redirect budgetary resources. The proposal for a law on the implementation of the budget for 2006 and 2007 is new evidence of the way this government operates and its desire to obtain even more powers for its operation and to reduce the transparency of the functioning of the spending of budgetary resources as well as the possibilities for monitoring. Everyone who deals with public finances in any way knows that greater powers are a very inviting matter, but also very dangerous, because they can very quickly lead to various violations and irregularities in the use of budgetary money. Disappointment over such a proposal, as proposed by the current government, is even greater as it is proposed by the government, whose current finance minister has been in the opposition for nearly 12 years and by the opposition has severely criticised the powers and powers of all the governments so far and has sought to reduce them. Thus, it is all the more surprising that these powers and powers are even increased. The ZIPRO proposal states that as much as 15% of the scope of the sub-programme can be modified by the proposer himself. In addition, other forms are envisaged, many of which exploit the possibility of reallocation of budgetary resources. It can quickly be calculated with a little simplification, so that the government can redistribute almost half of the budget allocated to investment, and we must certainly oppose it. This was also discussed by the Minister of Finance himself that the powers of the Executive are certainly too great. In the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, we have proposed appropriate amendments, which would otherwise better regulate matters in this law, but unfortunately they have not been adopted. This is not surprising, however, because the coalition does not confirm the good proposals made by the opposition, but it is surprising that government representatives who, when they were still in opposition, demanded greater transparency in their management of public finances, now that they are in power, agree even to an amendment of a coalition that increases the scope, for example by issuing orders for goods and services for small orders. Simplified again, this means that the government will be able to practically implement almost the entire state budget through low-value procurement procedures, with the exception of, of course, investments in motorways, parts of state roads and some of the largest investments. The extent allowed for low-value contracts is increased despite the fact that the Court of Auditors finds that this is one of the areas where the most infringements and irregularities in the availability of budgetary resources occur. Such a decision will also lose the positive competitive effect resulting from the procurement process. Such a decision is all the more incomprehensible because we know that under the new Public Procurement Act under the European directives, electronic auctions will be possible for tenderers, and public procurement procedures will therefore be able to be faster and more rational. Due to this, the logical level of restrictions would be reduced but not increased. As has been said in the 2006 and 2007 ZIPRO proposals, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy has unfortunately failed to adopt the amendments we have proposed to improve the bad proposal of the law. It is good that not even a proposal has been adopted, an amendment of the coalition, which would give the government even the authority to raise VAT if there were not sufficient revenues. Such a proposal reduces the authority and power of the National Assembly by making it available to the budget and makes it too much [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u100	Time's up.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u101	increase the power to make budgetary resources available to the government and we cannot accept such a proposal. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u102	Ms Breda Pecan, on behalf of the Group of the Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u103	Good afternoon. The social democrats of this law on the implementation of the 2006 and 2007 budget will not be supported. In particular, because the law should provide that the Government should propose certain budgetary statements and reports to the National Assembly, which should be, but are not an integral part of the budget documentation and should also be an integral part of the budget implementation reporting. This was also observed once by the International Monetary Fund when it processed the fiscal transparency of our public finances. For example, we do not have, we did not have, at the time, a report on unpaid obligations to suppliers, reports on commitments made and conditional obligations. The latter is particularly problematic when it comes to commitments made by the State in the form of guarantees to banks for loans granted to certain recovery companies. The amendment should also be tabled or approved, which states that expenditure or funding under the Basic Development Programmes Act is excluded from the scope of the budget debt. And the proposed solutions in this law give the highest possible opportunity to the government to create, are meant to create the size of the budget deficit, through what is already set out in the draft budget for the commitment to be paid in the coming years and which are not explicitly stated, and, of course, for financial debt. You have certainly noticed, particularly in the light of the debate on the common financial perspective and the 2006 budget in the European Parliament, that Parliament would like to retain the right to decide as the legislative authority on the budget of the European Union. In Slovenia it should be the same. However, we do adopt a budget and then a law on the implementation of the budget, which opens up all options for the arbitrary decision-making of the executive branch. On behalf of the parliamentary group, I would like to draw attention to what is going on, not only in this law, but in many others. And we always point out that the National Assembly in its current composition accepts easily and gladly somehow virtually cancelling its duties. And it actually allows for the will of the executive branch. The time will come when they may be in a few years' time and when we will analyze in a few years what has been happening - that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia has become only a body meeting, decides very little and allows for the will of the executive branch. This is the wrong approach, this is going to be bad for us. Believe any other national assembly in future compositions, I hope it will try to restore this balance between the executive branch and parliament. Of course, there are many mysteries again in basic development programmes. The Minister of Finance says that this is provided for in the special law and that, therefore, the amounts relating to the basic development programmes are not entered into, neither in the ZIPRO nor in the budget. Thus, it is not clear what part of the obligation is actually created on this account. We reiterate that the law on the implementation of the budget gives too much power to the government to redistribute the resources set by the National Assembly. We have already stressed this many times, and this is reflected in this law, and so far also gives the government the greatest opportunity in particular to create the size of the deficit for the financial debts of the Slovenian State and to assume the commitments that will have to be paid in the coming years. What is left for us in the opposition rather than to try to achieve at least something by offering amendments to the budget. We have achieved nothing, and the 2006 and 2007 commitments of 359 billion tolars and 320 billion tolars and an additional 15 billion tolars each year guarantee that this country and taxpayers will take over the debt that we will pay for years to come. That's all I'd say is that these are the words spoken by the two ministers of this government. 2002 and 2001 at the time of acceptance [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u104	Time's up.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u105	the law on the implementation of the budget in 2004 and 2005. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u106	Thank you. Mr Martin Mikolič will give his position to New Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u107	Thank you for your word. Nicely greeted! The Budget Implementation Act 2006 and 2007 are legally defined solutions that will enable the current and smooth implementation of the budgets adopted for the next two years. Article 3 sets out in more detail the composition of the budget under the provisions of the Public Finance Act. The law lays down general rules for the implementation of the budget. Thus, the direct budget user is responsible for the implementation of the entire project, which is key in the work financed from other budgetary resources. The law provides for measures taken by the Government to balance the budget in the event of poor economic developments, which would mean different budgetary revenues from the planned ones. The main debates on the home work body were the opposition's main concerns on the earmarked revenue and expenditure of the budget, the possibility of redistributing the spending rights of the ceiling in the award of low-value contracts for goods, services and construction, and the modification of the value of projects in the development programmes plans, as well as the extent of the indebtedness or extent of the issuing of State guarantees. In the Parliamentary Group of the New Slovenia-Christian People's Party, we support the solutions already introduced in the previous law on the implementation of the budget, namely for 2004 and 2005, and of course some innovations. On the basis of the government's decisions, the liabilities on pension protection items, the servicing of public debt, the contribution to the EU budget may also be paid above the level foreseen in the budget. It is correct that all revenue used to finance specific tasks shall have dedicated status. These assigned revenue for 2006-2007 is even slightly lower than in the 2004 and 2005 Budget Implementation Act. The proposed law retains a threshold of 10 million for goods and services and 20 million for construction, to which a contract may be awarded under a low-value procedure. We believe that this limit is appropriate. In the New Slovenia Group, we expect that the new Public Procurement Act will eliminate resources that in the existing law cause a lot of difficulties for contracting entities mainly in the tendering for construction works. The rules on the payment deadlines of direct users are very important at the expense of the budget. For investment expenditure and investment transfers, the payment deadlines remain the same, that is 60 days, also for services, 30 days. These payment deadlines also apply to municipalities, but it is a very important exception that the municipality may agree on shorter payment deadlines if it thus reaches a lower contract price. This must, of course, be stated under the conditions for the award of a contract and defined as a criterion for the formation of an offer, in fact, so far there has been no legal basis. The law also sets out the amounts of suitable expenditure of municipalities for 2006 and 2007. In the New Slovenia Group, we believe that it is necessary to prepare an appropriate methodology for the assessment of the municipality's own income, especially in view of the fact that the municipalities would be in the same position when the taxpayers are charged. These are, in particular, those own revenues which are not determined on the basis of laws but on the basis of municipal rules or regulations. First of all, this refers to compensation for the use of building land. It is also necessary to prepare a new system law on the financing of municipalities as soon as possible. In the Parliamentary Group of the New Slovenia-Christian People's Party, we will support the draft law on the implementation of the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Mr Josip Bajc has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u109	Mr Vice-President, Government representatives, colleagues and colleagues! In order to implement the budget for 2006 and 2007, which we have just adopted, the National Assembly must also adopt a law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for the same years. The proposed laws contain some novelties that I would like to comment on. At least part of this law regulates the issue of European funds and systematically solves problems in this area and it seems very important to us, because too little European funds have been used in the current lack of resources in the state budget at least in the past period, and we therefore welcome, in particular, the provision in the law, which makes it easier or more efficient to draw on European funds. In the new light, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia's service of local self-government and regional policy will be able to propose to the Government the reallocation of unused funds to those consumers who could use them more quickly. The draft law lays down restrictions on the write-off of debts of the Republic of Slovenia in one or a certain year. The amount of the write-off is limited to the individual debtor, up to 50 million sieves. Surely, for the reasons already mentioned in the presentation of the opinions of the Slovenian People's Party's Group on the draft budgets, we are particularly pleased with the changes made by law in the area of the financing of local self-government or municipalities. In addition to the amount of eligible expenditure per capita in 2006 103.638 and in 2007 108.302 SIT obliges the competent ministries to publish, within a short period of one month after the entry into force of this Act, appropriate calls for funding for projects financed by municipalities from the State budget. On the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, we have heard a lot of comments from opposition colleagues about the fact that the draft law on the implementation of the budget brings a whole range of negative effects or bad solutions. The draft law is intended to allow the Government of the Republic of Slovenia too much rights to redistribute budgetary resources. Of course, no one mentions the fact that, or that this makes possible, the law on the implementation of the budget for the current year, this is for 2005. Similarly, many words were intended to give the proposed law the power to the government to raise the VAT rate in order to obtain additional budgetary resources. At the same time, some have again forgotten that the change in VAT rates can only be made in accordance with Article 65 of the value added tax law, which allows the VAT rate to be increased or reduced by 15% by the law on the implementation of the budget. And this law was passed long ago in 1999. The Law on the implementation of the budget does not therefore bring any significant innovations in terms of greater powers for the government in the field of budget implementation. With the amendments of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, we have also aligned the proposed law on the implementation of the budget with the opinions of the legislative and legal services of this National Assembly. Therefore, the members of the Slovenian People's Party's Group will adopt a law on the implementation of the 2006 and 2007 budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u110	Thank you. On behalf of the Slovenian National Party, Mr Bogdan Barovic will give an opinion, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u111	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government, for the second time, a good day! If I start from good to bad, actually thank God that ZIPRO exists, because in fact ZIPRO is the law on the implementation of the budget that regulates the implementation of budgets for each year and in this sense we have a number of laws that condition a certain amount of funds, thank God that ZIPRO must follow laws, not wishes that are not x like laws, but that x plus is another amount. ZIPRO may in itself, in practice, as will be seen later, even regulate what can be done in the coalition and perhaps even in the opposition, or not, escape the consideration of budgets. It is true, however, that in the Slovenian National Party we have been paying attention to their times, in our view, to the custom that individuals or individual institutes write the exchange of coins, as far as rights are concerned. In the review of the law on the implementation of the budget, the Slovenian National Party also took the view that, according to our opinion, Article 4 empowers the government to include new budgetary users, so I say, ZIPRO gives the government this option and also gives the possibility to set methodologies for assessing the municipality's own revenues. Otherwise, in the Slovenian National Party, we are skeptical as to the validity in the legal system and we estimate that the legislative branch here is the one or the legal basis for setting such content. Of course, it is also questionable to redistribute spending rights and, on the other hand, to restrict such redistribution of rights. It is clear that it depends on how these rights or where the rights of redistribution apply, sometimes it would be right not to bother the national assembly with certain transfers, if they belong to the same class or content or the same base. On the other hand, we cannot agree that rights should be redistributed, but that means, even so. I do not say that they will, but every sentence in the law on the implementation of the budget can be understood in one way or another. However, in the Slovenian National Party, we are somewhat skeptical about the possibility of increasing value added tax due to the balancing of the country's revenues. It is clear to us that the country must coordinate its revenue. He's got more, he's better, but it depends where he gets them. On the other hand, it is illogical that this right exists already in the value added tax law, when, on the other hand, vehemently, at least I, as a member of the Finance Committee, have been listening for 50 hours, if not more, to this fight and to this right, and sometimes good things about simplifying tax rates, to lower tax rates as well as to help solve social problems. Now talk about some tax rate on value added, if, now it will be just so much and nothing more and we will relieve it, on the other hand, we have a peaceful opportunity to increase it by plus, minus 15%, it's a little weird, even if it's substantively correct, but it's weird. Finally, we could say another word about the law on the implementation of the budget, but certainly what we said at the outset applies, thank God that it will not prevail over the chaotic state of state spending. However, I hope that the words spoken by the representative of the Government will be fulfilled, namely that the financial alignment of the municipalities will be regulated as soon as possible by amending the Law on the Financing of the Communities. Make her say the words for another month.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u112	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a second reading, which is to discuss the articles and the amendments tabled, which will be guided by the review of the amendments of 12.12.2005. In doing so, I inform you that you have before you a review of the amendments tabled, we have four amendments tabled to Article 20, Article 22, Article 33 and Article 37. We will discuss each amendment to an individual article in the opposite and also vote in the opposite. That is why I am putting Article 20 or Amendment to Article 20 into the debate. Who wants a word? Mr Posedel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u113	Thank you very much. I would repeat the proposal tabled by the Liberal Democracy in order to correct the first paragraph of Article 20, which should be amended to read as follows: As the highest, maximum, maximum values to which a contract may be awarded under the rules for the award of low-value contracts, the following values shall be determined in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 124 of the Public Procurement Act: 5 million sieves for the award of the contract for goods and services and 10 million sieves for the award of the contract for construction. The explanation for such a proposal is based on the findings made by all those who are working in the field of enforcement and publication of public tenders and low-value orders, known by all those who have read the analysis of the Court of Auditors, who find that the biggest infringement in the area of individual ministries, in the area of individual public institutions owned by the State, in the area of municipalities, and similar to the fact that there are the most irregularities, the most infringements, because of the fact that orders are issued by breaking down and that they are then carried out within these allowed numbers. And if we believe what the paper says today that only in the Clinical Center are they ordering about 30 billion materials per small-value order system, then we know what kind of funds this way flow from the budget to suppliers. In this way, they would reduce this scope and, above all, in this article, they would point out that the Public Procurement Act is very bad and we would like to see that it is settled or adopted as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u114	Thank you. Since there is no one else to discuss, I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 20. We're voting. We will repeat the vote because there was no consensus. We're voting again. We give 10 minutes of recess and please the Members and Members, it would be nice if we were currently conducting the meeting and if this were to run.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u115	I resume the adjourned session of the National Assembly. We are moving again to a decision on the amendment to Article 20. We're voting. Voting adjourned. 49 votes, 8 to 39. [[The vote was 8.]] [[Against 39.]] I note that the amendment has not been adopted under Article 20. We are moving on to the amendment to Article 22. I'm putting this amendment to the debate. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] Since no one wants to discuss, I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 22. We're voting. 48 Members and Members voted for 40, against 5. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against the 5.]] I note that the amendment to Article 22 has been adopted. We are moving on to the amendment to Article 33. Who wants a word? Mr Posedel. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u116	Thank you for your word. In the Liberal Democracy, we propose that the third paragraph of Article 33, by means of this amendment, be deleted from the scope of the guarantees under this Act. And in our view, this means that, in the event that a law on the implementation of the budget is adopted with such an article, we will be in a situation where the government could be in debt and accept commitments without limits, because the most basic thing for public funding is that each year, within the adopted budget, it is precisely that the amount to which the state or government can be indebted is ensured and also set. And with this dictatorship, as it is now in Article 33, that guarantees are not counted, given this year, I think we are coming in one period when we lose or the government can lose control of its debt, which will not even be shown anywhere.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u117	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 33. We're voting. 57 Members and Members, 15 votes to 41. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 41.]] I note that the amendment to Article 33 has not been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment to Article 37. Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 37. Please, Mr. Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u118	Thank you very much. This is exactly the part if you allow me to ask a question for a word that I spoke about in the presentation of the position of the Slovenian National Party. In fact, we're here wondering what that actually means right now. Is this a temporary government methodology that will be developed as soon as possible and passed on to the applicable law? Is this, in fact, a right to the government under the pretext that this methodology will be designed and transposed into the applicable law, and that will not happen? I'd like a very precise answer before I can decide. I therefore wonder whether the methodology will be developed, agreed with all the competences and communities of the municipalities and municipalities, and formed for this competent law, whether it remains fixed, irrespective of the text of these paragraphs, in Article 37. I'd like a very clear answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u119	Thank you. You want a word, government representative. Please. Mrs. Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u120	In any case, this methodology will be defined in the first amendments to the Law on Community Financing and this has been established here provisionally, this is until systemic legislation is adopted.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u121	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Mrs. Pechanova, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u122	This amendment points to the relationship between the current authorities and local self-government. According to the European Charter on Local Self-Government, municipalities must be financially independent, not subject to current government budget and government will. In this case, it is very clear that the government is the one to determine how much the municipalities will have at their disposal for their funding and how much not. However, the system law could be debated very much and for a very long time because it is clear that it will not be for a long time. Here I think that I am not making anything up, but all those who know what is going on in the backdrop of the adoption of the system law on the financing of municipalities, you have to admit, there is something inside that we know how these things run, that it is not possible to believe that this law will come on the agenda of this national assembly sooner than in 2007, according to local elections. Maybe there'll be some more beautiful correction in between, so that we can have more local elections ready for the right option, but it's just the way it is.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u123	Mr Posedel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u124	Thank you for your word. I myself do not agree with this amendment, but I agree with the finding that the law on the financing of municipalities is disastrously bad. I was even more concerned about the implementation of the Ministry of Finance's representative, who said that this was a temporary solution. When it is heard that there is a temporary solution, it is also known that such a solution will be long awaited, and in this way we can also accept such an amendment, which will give the government the opportunity to accept the methodology so that the congregations will also be divided into real, unfair, ours, yours. That is why I believe that this great Bianca has given power to the government and it is certainly not good.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u125	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 37. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 15. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 15.]] I note that the amendment to Article 37 has been adopted. I am concluding the second reading and moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that the Second reading assembly has adopted amendments to Articles 22 and 37 of the amended Law. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table an amendment to this article? [[No, no, ……]] I find that no amendments were tabled in the third reading. On the basis of paragraph 5 of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the legislature and the Government have not informed me that the law on the grounds of the amendments adopted would not be harmonised. We're moving on to a decision on the law. We're voting. An explanation for Mrs. Pecanov's voice, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u126	I think I can afford to say on behalf of the parliamentary group that we will vote against this law, especially because this is the first very clear evidence that all that the government coalition has promised in a pre-election battle that lasted almost two years, not one thing has been fulfilled in this law. This is the first law to indicate that in 2001 and 2003 the current Minister of Finance Dr. Bayuk and the current Minister of Economy Mag. The Vizjak did not speak when they said that they would take care of or that the new National Assembly and the new Government would ensure that the law on the implementation of the budget under their tactics would be amended, transparent to transfer to the National Assembly all the powers that the National Assembly should have in relation to the adoption of the budget and the monitoring of the implementation of the budget, and also to ensure, together, that they would ensure that the Government did not have too much power to redistribute funds, in the case of additional debt, that it would be able to cut funds to some direct budget users when the crisis might arise in the inflows and so on. When I first read the portions of the magnetograms, because it would have been different for too long, Dr. Bayuk and the mag. The visionary, when they were members of the National Assembly in 2001 and 2003, is today an anniversary of both performances or all three performances, I think he will say everything. What they were saying at the time should also be done today. Sadly, this law was not done as they had promised, promised, and assured. That is why we, as those who believe in the words of politicians, cannot support such a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u127	I believe Mr. Tanko raised his hand? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. 59 Members and Members voted 41 to 18. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 18.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to four. On the basis of the information provided by the Commission, the Commission considers that the Commission is not in a position to assess the compatibility of the measures with the internal market. The draft decree was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the motion for a decree. Please, Minister Bajuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u128	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members and Members! The Public Finance Act provides for the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to submit to the National Assembly, together with the draft budget, a proposal for a national financial and real estate programme. Under the Public Finance Act, the state's financial assets are monetary assets, claims, debt securities and shares and shares in legal persons' capital and other investments of a legal entity, so-called capital investments. After 80.c. of the Public Finance Act, the sales programme only lists the capital investments and the percentage to be sold. The 2006 and 2007 Decree on the State and Real Estate Sales Programme includes proposals for which the Government estimates that they are enforceable during that budgetary period. The sale of state-owned assets in 2006 and 2007 is planned at an accounting value of 187 billion tolars. The sale of real property owned by the State is planned in the indicative estimated value of 3.7 billion tolars in 2006 and in the indicative estimated value of 407 million tolars in 2007. After 80.c. of the Public Finance Act, the Sales Decree only lists the capital investments and the percentage proposed for sale. For each individual type of capital investment, a separate sales programme of this capital investment will be drawn up before the final sale decision. The specific objectives of the sale of this capital investment, the specific methods to be used in the sale and the procedures and deadlines for the implementation of these methods, will be defined in the individual capital investment scheme to be decided by the government on the basis of the relevant professional basis. The preparation of a specific capital investment sales programme will also identify all necessary preparatory actions, careful financial, organisational and legal review, asset assessment and so on. Sales will take place in accordance with the methods laid down by the Sales Regulation and other forms of disposal of state and municipal assets and the Regulation on the acquisition and disposal and management of real property of the State and the municipality. The objective of the tight budget view is to sell capital investments to ensure liquidity, that is to say the monetary revenue of the budget. The objective to achieve this is therefore to maximise the budgetary revenue in the light of the highest possible selling price. For individual types of capital investments due to the wider macroeconomic interests of the country associated with economic development, maximising budgetary deficits cannot be the only key objective of sales. At the same time, the sale of these types of capital investments must ensure the achievement of macroeconomic objectives, in particular achieving sustainable and stable economic growth, improving the quality and capacity of public services and ensuring a more efficient and competitive economic system. In view of the fact that the law on the implementation of the budget does not provide for a specific purposeful use of the purchase, the purchase referred to in this Title will be used in full in accordance with Article 74 of the Public Finance Act for the repayment of debts in the financing account. The Government has included in the 2006 and 2007 Decree on the State Assets Sales Programme all capital investments in which the State has less than 50% share, except for those with outstanding certain issues, such as Geoplin, Port Koper, the conclusion of the concession contract, etc. The government also included all those capital investments where the sales procedures started already on the basis of a decree in the 2004 and 2005 government asset sales programme and will continue in 2006 and 2007. This is the Slovenian steel industry d.d., Pekko, Telekom, Nafta Lendava, the company for the editing of kournikovs, BSC, the business support centre Kranj, Toplarna Hrastnik, Fortuna, Pil, Gardex, TDR metallurgy, RSCOM construction materials, Drava power plants and Talum. From the 2004 and 2005 government asset sale programme, only the sale of capital investment to Borovnik quarry, owned by the Trbovlje Hrastnik d.o.o. mine, therefore the purchase did not go into the budget and the availability of PBS shares - Postal Banka Slovenija d.d., which were invested as a real investment in NKMB d.d. - Maribor Credit Bank. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u129	Thank you very much. The motion for a decree was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. I ask the chairman of the Committee, Mr Bojan Starman, to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u130	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Respectable. At the first meeting of the 11th session of 7.12.2005, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on Finance and Monetary Policy considered the proposal for a decree on a programme for the sale of State financial and real property for 2006 and 2007 submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia pursuant to Article 80(4) of the Law on Public Finance for consideration by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. A broad opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service was forwarded to the Committee. By the same time limit for the submission of amendments to the Committee, amendments to Annex 3 which form an integral part of the proposed decision have been tabled by the Coalition's parliamentary groups. Representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Public Administration, the Ministry of Finance and the Legal and Legislative Service attended the meetings of the Committee. In the context of the examination of Article 2 of the proposed decision relating to the sales programme, the Committee adopted an amendment to Article 2 and to Tables 1a and 1.2, which could also be reviewed in the report, under the provisions of this Article. Within the framework of the proposed amendment by the Slovenian Democratic Party, New Slovenia, the Slovenian People's Party and the Democratic Party of Slovenia to Table three, which is an integral part of this proposed decision, the Committee adopted that amendment. The representatives of the motion for a decision at the meeting did not align their position with the opinions of the legislative and legal service, so the Committee did not consider or adopt any harmonisation amendments. When voting on the articles of the proposed decision, the Committee adopted all the articles. In the light of the amendments adopted at the meeting of the Committee, a further proposal for a decree, which is an integral part of this report, is being prepared and I propose that the State Assembly also adopt it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u131	I give the floor to the representatives of the groups. On behalf of the SDS, please, Mr Happy Hvauc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u132	Your Honor! In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we will support the proposed proposal for a decree on the sale of state and real property. Support it because we believe it is justified and feasible within the proposed deadline. With regard to the sale of capital shares, we believe that it is a realisation of our forecast that the state will gradually withdraw from the economy and therefore, where appropriate, it also foresees the sale of these shares. However, the second group of companies to which shares will also be sold is shares, to a lesser extent, where the country also has less than 1% of the equity share and cannot actually affect the company’s business or operation and it is also reasonable to withdraw fully. However, the sale of real property is mainly property, many of which are not functional, are not maintained or are failing, are causing certain costs, and we therefore consider it wise to sell it. Finally, I would like to make one small comment, in Table 3, which was referred to by the Ministry of Transport and Communications, which has been missing for some time now, but we have the Ministry of Transport. As has already been said, our Group of Members will support the proposed decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Mr Pavel Gantar has the floor on behalf of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u134	Mr Vice President, Minister-in-Office, co-workers and co-workers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The LDS Group will not be in a position to support the 2006 and 2007 LDS decision on the sales programme of state, financial and real property. According to the content and method of preparation, it strongly deviates from the established practice so far and in some ways drives us thirsty through water, since at least for capital investments it is not clear how much part of the country really intends to sell over the next two years. From the point of view of legal systematics, of course, we agree with the comments made by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which stated a number of comments that the applicant should take into account. The content of the decree is to be covered in five articles, the first of which is the presentation, and the fourth and fifth are a transitional and final provision. This means that all matter is actually collected in two Articles 2 and 3. 2. Article 2, which is supposed to be the second chapter in the text of the proposal, relates to the sales programme of the financial assets, and this relates in particular to the sale of capital investments within this financial asset of the State. The proposal for a decree does not have some programming content, as does the current decree, and refers to or refers to three annexes already mentioned in the programme itself. If we take a closer look at these annexes, it is essentially tables and not annexes summarizing the capital investments envisaged for sale over the next two years. In the explanation, the applicant touches only seven cases of capital investment. For everyone else, total 43, does not give a more accurate presentation. We particularly miss the presentation of the so-called special bases, which are mentioned in the explanation, which is the justification of the decree, but not the sale of capital investments itself. They state that these special bases will be prepared in 2005 for Telekom and for the Slovenian steel industry. Which, of course, is not true, since they only recently appointed expert groups to deal with it. With regard to the sale of real property, it is noted that the real estate that is the subject of the programme is very vaguely defined or unconcreteable, so that the programme is very imprecise. With regard to the transitional decisions covered by Article 4 of the proposed Decision, it is stated that the transactions initiated under the current Decision should continue during the next budgetary period. In this regard, we point out that the applicant's approach is uneven, as some proposals for the sale of capital investments from legal assets include the applicant in this programme, while others are seeking to extend or ensure the continuation of the transaction even after the adoption of this Decision without specifying exactly what cases this refers to. Our assessment of the motion for a decree is that it is imprecise, inconclusive and therefore allows for a great deal of emptiness and decision-making in relation to sales, which can thus serve certain political objectives and motives in a transparent and obvious way. If I look briefly at the capital sales programme in the largest companies, we can find out - in Telekom Slovenije we do not know how they will sell and what share will actually be available for sale. While it is written that the share of the country is 62.53% and that the share for sale is also 62.53%. Nothing about the famous 26xy formula cited by the reform framework adopted by the government. They're talking about so-called 26xy forums. However, we can certainly assume that this programme will be prepared someday and once it is prepared and that if we start selling today, we should be aware that in 18 months this process cannot be completed or in a year and a half if all things were to be done without problems or complications. And what's hard to expect from a sale like this. However, let us continue to point out that in LDS we will strongly oppose attempts to break up Telekom Slovenije and separately sell the mobile, fixed and internet operator, which is indirectly indicated by Table 1B, which shows the shares of subsidiaries in Telekom Slovenije and, of course, shows separately also the mobile internet operator and some other investments in these companies. With regard to the Slovenian steel industry, it can be found that despite the opposition's criticism of previous years, the efforts of the governments of the past have been demonstrated, justified and that the Slovenian steel industry is mainly in good condition due to modernisation, measures and growing steel markets promoted by economic growth in China. The situation is good, it is also an assessment in the decree, and we expect new initiatives and ideas, however, to be able to privatise this segment of the economy, so that it will have a country that has invested a lot in it as well as companies themselves. I will stop in another seemingly negligible segment of the sale of state property, these are water companies, where the country has about 25% of the shares, in the companies for regulating the renters a little bit more. It is necessary to support the view that there is no need for a State to own a swamp and shovel in order to carry out a public water management service. From this point of view, it can be achieved that these companies are fully sold or resold. Nevertheless, I note some details, for some it is necessary to examine the meaning of this sale, and also some caution that has been in play so far when it comes to the sale of these companies. In view of the long-term implementation of the public water management service, these companies have important databases on watercourses, technical solutions, documentation, history of documentation, construction and data on buildings, construction and so on. These companies have in their balance sheet a whole range of strategic information that can sometimes mean more than physical property. If you sell these shares to anyone right now, anyway, I guarantee you that these companies will be in the hands of Austrian engineering companies in two years or three. Therefore, before you go on sale, it is necessary to determine the status and ownership of this documentation and data in order not to be this behaviour about water, this information base on water, now available only to new private owners, but also to the country or to those operating the water. This is a very important element that has so far pointed out that this 25% share is not to be disposed of if this is not resolved sooner and well. In particular, I would like to point out that I would like to see more sales than in Pek, because Pekko, sold by the Ministry of Economy, has an available share of 81.3% and you intend to sell 82.08%. I wish there were as many sales as possible. However, as I know there will be none, once again I stress that we will not support the proposal for a decree. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u135	Mr Dusan Kumer will give his position on behalf of the Social Democrats' Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u136	Thank you for your word. A respected minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! In this document, the government has had and still has an ideal opportunity to demonstrate in a transparent manner the implementation of the reform package, where there is much talk about the withdrawal of the country from the economy and, of course, the disposal of state property. We've heard stories about what the government will do before the sale. Even in the coalition contract much was written about it, but then, for example, in Mercator's case, the story took place mainly in a different way, in a non-transparent way. First of all, I would like to point out that we have already completed similar decrees twice this year and that today we are adopting a new decision on the sale of state, real and financial property. Already in March and September, we have highlighted some of the shortcomings of these documents prepared by the Government and we must accept them in this national assembly. But the proponents of these papers have apparently remained deaf to all our warnings to this day. It is therefore still a practice to adopt acts in this National Assembly that do not comply with certain basic provisions of the Public Finance Act. Furthermore, the rulings are not an integral part of the budgetary discussions. We have adopted the 2006 and 2007 budget, and today we are discussing the decision on the disposal of state property. It's some kind of wrong world. Furthermore, there is still no financial impact of the existing decisions, such as the value added, the proceeds of the sale of State property, etc. We don't get any of this on the bench, but we're already picking up a new frog that we don't know how many cats are in it again. And obviously, we'll never get that from practice. Also unacceptable is the attitude of the proposer and the government majority in this national assembly to this legislative body, which is the national assembly. On the one hand, the government majority last week, and also today, assessed and praised as a model amendment of the opposition party for 3 million tolars, which was explained on three sides. Today we have a reasoned disposal of the financial share, the capital share of Telekom, which is almost 140 billion tolars in exactly eleven typed lines. I think that this is really an unacceptable attitude towards this legislative body, which ultimately has to give a green light to the government's conduct. Social Democrats support the gradual exit of the country from the economy as set out in the Coalition Treaty and the reform package. Thus, in a transparent way, while noting that the provision of capital gains at the expense of job losses and uncertain social security is unacceptable to us. Economic growth is not only dependent on the sale of state property, but is certainly dependent on the development policies of the country. Therefore, the Social Democrats would expect that the sale of state silver is also expected, which Telekom and some other companies in this decree, without question, which will complement the state treasury, for a little more than 187 billion tolars. This is the saying and writing 10% of the 2006 budget that we discussed last week. That is why, of course, we expected a deliberate and conceptually clear government decision, and not just a handball fiscal measure. Nor has it been said in a word what will happen to the purchase from this sale. It will be intended to cover the current budgetary loss and the wrong decisions of the government, whether it will be aimed at new investments, new development law, opening new jobs. In this respect, the author of this decree was, last but not least, warned by the legal and legislative service, in order to make a report prepared in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 80 of the Finance Act, which would be an integral part of this new decree and programme, a clear contribution to the transparency of the sales made so far. The proposal of this resolution also gave the applicant, that is, the government, the opportunity to show and demonstrate how he believed in the document entitled "Direction of economic and social reforms to increase economic growth and employment". On this occasion, however, it has also proven once again that the government does not have the courage to implement through such acts or its own coalition treaties, even less the things recorded in the reform package, in which the writers of this decree obviously doubt or do not know it. It would, of course, be wise for the government to first sweep ahead of their thresholds and determine specifically who does not support the reform guidelines in the government itself and then direct sharp arrows, criticisms elsewhere. Obviously, this document was composed of officials whose priority is to raise money to fill the budget register. This is, of course, a mustache and a mockery to all those who boast at the government's anniversary that one of the successes of this government is to reduce public spending. Therefore, on this occasion, we also warn and propose that the government first examine the possibilities for dealing with and eliminating the catastrophic situation in terms of the European Union's absorption of funds, by September 2005, we have paid 5 billion dollars more than we have earned, facing some of the costs of spending money on expensive airline rentals and other aviation services, unnecessary diaries and expensive hotel accommodations, and so on and so on, and thus starting to face a programme of more rational public money spending. And it is precisely for these reasons that the sale of state-owned and real-estate assets cannot be intended only to wipe out a hole in the budget, but it must also have, as stated in the reform package, a development component. Action 21 in the reform package is therefore also clear. I quote, for each subject of sale, a privatisation programme must be drawn up which must be based on an analysis of the industry and the company's needs for further development and, on this basis, propose an appropriate combination of privatisation methods. Furthermore, the quotation on the stock exchange before the implementation of the programme is an additional guarantee and protection for small shareholders in these companies. So, in the case of Telekom, it is proposed to immediately begin the preparation for the quotation. There is also a warning: the State should not attempt to realise additional premiums at sales prices at the expense of being deprived of the remaining, read, small shareholders. Even more concrete and in some ways legal for the government is the 23rd measure, which states: by the end of 2005, establish a programme for the privatisation of Telekom. That's 14 days from now. Determine by the end of 2005 the details of the scope and method of privatisation. Furthermore: assess the desired ownership structure in relation to the future development of Telekom. And last in the 23rd measure: to include Telekom's shares on the market quotation immediately this year. None of this is done, at least not so far, but we're already making a decision on the sale of Telekom's share. I therefore ask whether officials in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia do not need to read a package of reform measures and consider it as a policy direction for this government? Are not the proposals for laws and acts prepared by the government a condition that they are in principle based on these guidelines? In short, the government's attitude and ridicule of its own reform package are exposed in this document. Repeat, I'm selling out, Telekom is justified on eleven typed lines. So, who is against reforms, or those who are preparing laws and such decrees and do not follow their own written guidelines or those who verbally oppose the individual measures taken? It will be difficult to convince me otherwise that, above all, there will be a need to gather in government cabinets, to speak one language, or that those blind, uniform advocates of the proposed reforms will not believe in the reform. If this is what all other laws will look like in the future, then it is best that we abolish the "reform bureau" next month and freeze the book of reform measures. We will therefore not support this decision in the parliamentary groups of the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Thank you very much also to my colleague, Vice President Magi. The pianos for the successful management of the session. And we continue with the representative of the parliamentary groups. Mr Mikolič has the floor, on behalf of New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u138	Thank you for your word, chairman. Well-known Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, Members and Members of Parliament! In the Parliamentary Group of New Slovenia-Christian People's Party, we will support the sales programme for the years 2006 and 2007. The book value of capital investments for sale over the next two years, proposed by the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Environment and Space and the Ministry of Finance, amounts to just over 187 billion. This purchase goes to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. In addition, over the next two years, the sale of state capital investments is planned to be slightly smaller than 4 billion and covers subsidiaries owned directly by the state. In our parliamentary groups, we believe that the sale of these capital investments is realistic and feasible over the next two years. Surely this is also necessary from the point of view of the gradual withdrawal of the country from the economy. The real estate sale programme shall include individual types of real property intended for sale and their indicative values. There are also explanations to be published together with the decree. Let me say that in view of the fact that a controversy has opened up on the home working body or the act adopted by the national assembly should be published together with the reasons given in the public publication. We believe, or indeed, that the Government has prepared a more detailed explanation for the sale of individual types of real property for the consideration of the transitional decisions in this National Assembly. It is also important that the transitional provisions state that the planned sale of financial and real property may continue in 2004 and 2005, which have not yet been realised, over the next two years. In the Parliamentary Group of New Slovenia - The Christian People's Party, we will support the sales programme together with the harmonisation amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Mr Josip Bajc has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u140	Mr Vice-President, Mr Minister with co-workers, it's a nice afternoon. Perhaps I would like to begin by congratulating everyone and congratulating the government that we will bring to an end the acts that mean the normal life or business of this country and all its institutions in the years ahead, in 2006 and 2007. Secondly, the decree on the sales programme of state and financial real property for 2006 and 2007 will be unanimously supported by the members of the Slovenian People's Party's Group, particularly pleased or pleased that the amendment, which provides for the sale of the Roman spas, has also been adopted on the home labour body and will be appropriately supported by the harmonisation amendment drawn up by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia with the inclusion of the sale. [[...]] In order not to be too long as it is said, the Slovenian People's Party Members will support the sales programme for the years 2006 and 2007 together with the harmonisation amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u141	Thank you very much. I invite Vice-President Saš Pečet to present the position of the Slovenian National Party as a speaker.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u142	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it's been a little less than 60 days since this National Assembly met with a decree on the sale of state property for 2005 or the amendment of that act. I think that the fourth correction for 2005 was, and I know, I don't think there were any questions raised about the sale of real estate, both in Maribor and in some other local communities in the Republic of Slovenia. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia then, or a representative of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, did not answer the questions raised at the time. I expected, however, that today, when we are considering the sale of state property for 2006 and 2007, the government will respond to the questions raised, especially the questions the answer to which might be a positive or, of course, a negative light on the valuation value of certain properties in our country or an assessment by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. To the extent that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia today, that is to say, 60 days after this, has responded to the way the buildings were then valued, by various local communities, it could at least give greater credibility to the words of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Furthermore, it is necessary to point out, at least by the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, that it is strange, if not already disputed, that the sequence of public financial acts we adopt in this national assembly. Therefore, the budgets, with this in turn, should be set aside for two years, to be concrete for 2006 and to be concrete for 2007. But it is only later that we accept or do not accept, but it is still a political issue, one of the sources of revenue. In my opinion, this kind of approach is politely said, "unresistible." As for that act that is before us today, I would like to point out first some praise. According to the assessment of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, this year we meet for the first time with an act which also lists objects of real property in its contents. If the main criticism was in the context of the 2005 sales list of state assets that government representatives have informed us and, for 2004 and all years ago, exclusively of the sale of assets, we have this year for the first time a picture of the financial assets that the government intends to approach in the coming years to switch ownership. So congratulations on this partial success, and we believe that, as long as the government continues with a more transparent policy, the emphasis is more transparent than the policy of selling state, real and financial assets within the former government, we could meet with a good act for a sales decree in 2008. However, I would like to point out a few things that we in the Slovenian National Party estimate should be better carried out or more strongly and better set. Firstly, in its explanation for the decision itself, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia emphasises that the aim is to sell state property to make businesses that are more competitive in the global market in most countries. Thus, according to our assessment, the government or the administrator, who is more or less associated with the government, clearly indicates that it is not capable of managing this property. In view of the fact that these companies belong mainly to companies which are equal or which are also defined in the reform proposal and which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia defines as the second wave of privatisation, it would be logical to recognise that, if these companies have undergone the first part of the transition or the final transition, depending on which angle we are looking at, they are successful companies. The government here indicates that these are not actually successful companies, that under its strategy they have become companies without a vision and here we also get an answer why so few tax revenues under the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. According to our assessment, it should not be the aim of selling good businesses, but, of course, through these companies, a country with good management over more or less indirect, management rights should of course exercise a different interest, so-called public interest, in the interest of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. The government also recognises that an increase in the quality of services and business processes would be achieved with the aim of selling. Then, of course, I do not see, at least personally and within the framework of the parliamentary group, why such inflation of human resources replacements is taking place, where the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is trying to enforce its human resources policy, if it proposes on this side that the government is therefore unable to carry out quality in the market and that the government is unable to carry out favourable business processes. In addition, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in one of the paragraphs, claims or guarantees, and here, I would like to comment later on by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia that the fundamental objectives of the sale of state property will be to focus on all levels, both with government materials that go to Parliament's Members. That is why I would like the Minister of Finance to confirm what it says here. This means that before any sale of state property, i.e. any business in real form, the government will come before Parliament and show a sales strategy. This is what it says in the act that we are taking today. To the extent that this is true and to the extent that Minister Bajuk or his government representative confirms it, this novelty in the management of state assets is welcome. But I personally doubt that the Minister will even respond to this and I fear that the way of selling real property in the form it was in the past, that is, hidden to the eyes of the public, hidden to the eyes of the profession and hidden to the fathers of the National Assembly. With one and the same noun, for which, as I said, I'm afraid, it's going to go on, that means intransparency. Finally, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia notes in its explanation that, in pursuit of the level of purchase, it will use to reduce public debt, to reduce the cost of public debt financing, as well as to create long-term nominal interest rates and to reduce inflation. In other words, the first two emphasises, or objectives pursued, on what to buy and how to purchase, clearly indicate that the current policy of selling state property in our country has not been appropriate. This means that we are selling good companies today so that we can cover our debts. At the same time, of course, it would be acceptable if we knew or if we did not know that the existing government was very much in this period, I would say potentially indebted, both at home and abroad, to have a look at it both on the Ministry of Finance websites and in all the other acts we have adopted this week or last week and today. According to our assessment, as we have already said, in the framework of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, all of this leads to one unbridled spiral. So the debt, the covering or covering of this debt by selling our, Slovenian, emphasis is needed, assets. Therefore, within the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, we must say from this city that we cannot agree with this aggressive policy of selling real property and the work of financial assets. Especially since we have no programme, we have no more specific strategy on how to sell and especially on how to purchase, except that of course the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is speaking to us in two lines. According to our assessment, once the property has been sold, the property lost is a property, so the correctional exam in this area will not be held by the government or the state assembly. We are opposed to the quantity of sold or intended sold Slovenian companies and are demanding a greater social consensus on such an approach. Coverage of past or current inappropriate financial decisions and acquisitions of financial resources should, of course, be a last resort to borrowing credits at home and abroad through the sale of state property. In spite of the praise I have given to the National Party, one of them is that this year's decree is more transparent than all of the previous ones, because at least we have a list of what it means to play the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, we do not intend to support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Yelen, last of all, has the floor on behalf of the Group of Members on behalf of the DeSUS.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u144	Thank you for your words, Mr Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! In the DeSUS Group, we will support the proposal for a decree on a sales programme for state and real property for 2006 and 2007. In the above-mentioned proposal for a decree on the sales programme for state and real property for 2006 and 2007, we have concerns in our parliamentary group mainly about the substantive work to which some important items should be entered in addition to the volume and type of sale of book value included in euro, such as the method and procedure, the purpose of using the purchase with the objective of selling for all forms of sale of state property. The very structure of the decree is, in our opinion, rather impractical and it would be worth noting that in the future this sales programme should be precisely defined. This will show greater visibility with regard to the inclusion of content. We have taken into account the opinions of the legislative and legal services regarding the placement of an explanation in the annex, which is an integral part of the decree and we agree with their proposal. With regard to the implementation of these operations, it is recalled that it would be appropriate to present or present the stage of performance, in particular the individual, not yet completed sales, in the proposed programme. There will undoubtedly be a need to ensure greater transparency, adequate upgrades and meaningful adjustments to the programme itself and to the whole at all, in accordance with the Public Finance Act. In our DeSUS Group, we believe that a programme for the sale of financial and real state property will need to be properly upgraded, complemented in this direction in order to reflect a transparent display of all forms of sales of state property and an insight into the situation only. At the same time, we hope that this state's non-economic situation will improve in terms of selling its unnecessary assets, disinvestment. Even beyond the opinions of the external supervisory services, such as the Court of Auditors, which identifies the actual situation as compared to the planned one, we cannot. As we have already said in the introduction, in our DeSUS Group, we will support the proposal for a decree on a programme for the sale of national financial and real property for 2006 and 2007.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u145	Thank you very much. There is a general debate on the proposal for a decree. Let me say for motivation that a large number of debaters have cancelled their performance. And I give the word to Jacob the Presbyterian. He's quitting. Then Mrs. Brady Roast. It's going a little faster because we've got a couple of checked-outs.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u146	I have nine minutes. So, I took a little look at the interestingness in this real estate sale programme, and I didn't go into financial, because it's a lost battle and war anyway, because this government is going to deal with financial assets the way it thought it would. First, she will agree with potential buyers, more in private talks, on August 18th, or something like that, when everyone else, especially members of the opposition, will be on leave and then sell at the agreed price of the assets. But when we're talking about real property, we see very interesting data, for example, in Domžal, it's supposed to be an apartment or a business space of almost 100 square meters, 95 square meters, rounded up by this government for 18 million tolars. So, according to the bad ones, I emphasize, after the poor 200,000 tolars per square meter, which is less than 1,000 euros per square meter. That no one would have thought that these premises were very old, the date of construction dates back in 1977. Something similar is the case with Ljubljana’s business premises on Glinska Street, 771 square metres for 125 million tolars. If I, as mayor of the municipality of Izola, proposed to the municipal council [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u147	Please have some peace, Mrs. Pecanova has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u148	to adopt a plan for the sale of real estate of the municipality of Izola at such prices, the following day in Finance, in Direct, in Slovenian News, in Democracy and in Mago as the mayor who spends municipal property. [[..]] Prices in Ljubljana and Domžal are certainly not so low that there would be enough 200,000 tolls per square metre for business spaces, I stress, which usually have at least 50% higher price than housing, at least 50% not to mention that dwellings in Ljubljana, apartments that are 30 or 40 years old have a value of about 300,000 tolar per square metre, it is said that the valuation made for these premises should be at least 400 000 tolar per square metre, no, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has ordered a valuation and agrees with the appreciation it has then without shame to place in the sale plan of real property owned by this country at half price. I can also say the same about the business premises sold by the Ministry of Interior from 1962 600 square metres, even so far that the price is set at zero, because they have not yet had time to order prices, to get prices that would set a fair, exclusive price. Or, for example, in Kidričeva Street in Koper, which is a 105-year-old facility, but we know what Kidrič Street means in Koper, we also know what the Ukmar Square in Koper means and what the prices are there, but when we move on, let's say we move on to apartments, the Ministry of the Interior in Ljubljana on Steletova, and then on the Glinšk Platform on Herman Potočnik 33, if you don't know where it is, you might know who Herman Potočnik was, but Herman Potočnik is exactly opposite BTC, it's a fantastic position, so let's say the road to Markovec in Koper, 70 square meters for 17 million tolars. I will ask you whether you are aware of the prices of real estate in the market, property in our country and that today it is possible to set these prices to a more real level. At the auction will be sold or at a real price, it is said, a market price that will arise, if more auctioneers or, of course, you will be able to sell under the table, I will say with one auctioneer alone for such money as is now in appreciation. If we look at another case like this. On the airport road in Ljubljana, building land, 20 thousand 643 square meters, the road is just below BTC. We all know that BTC is constantly expanding, the city in the city, the city of purchases, what else can we say, and that the price of land there is 23 thousand tolars is of course a mere farce. The price of land in Letališki cannot be lower than 35,000 tolars, and now it is only a matter of conscience and morals of the one who orders the valuation and the one who executes the valuation, and we know that the price of auctions is often calculated by the valuers as ordered. I've got three more minutes of coworker time, and I think I can talk to you, or are you going to stop me?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u149	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u150	Now I would say that in Portorož on a steep road, a sale price of 25 million tolars is foreseen for a building plot of 847 square meters. That's so we could roll with laughter, you know, young people. That's the word and write. Don't talk about Miley because we didn't sell the land to Milojka, if you want to tell me, and I've already told you this before, but you can repeat it to disability, but [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u151	Please, it's not a round table, it's a presentation of individual positions.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u152	Then let him stop talking in between. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u153	That goes for everyone. Please, let's stick to the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u154	So this would be the price of about 330,000 tolars, less than 30,000 per square meter, and we know that in Portorož there is a sale of building land of at least 45 to 50,000 tolars today. So there's weird stuff here. I would say that when we're talking about sales plans, annual sales plans, and we have the numbers that are in this sales programme, then we have to ask why these prices are as low as they are. Either there is a purpose or there is a complete lack of knowledge of the real estate market in our country. I hope to say that in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, with so many top experts that we have in the Ministry of Finance, in the Ministry of Environment and Space, in the Ministry of Economy, I do not think of ministers. Ministers even have an army of people who know how to appreciate work and who know what market prices are. We do have a real estate valuation law ahead of us. In this way, we will evaluate property under the new law, when it comes to the sale of state property, probably we should not do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Comrade Bajc, the replica, probably, right?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u156	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Brad, I didn't think I'd take the floor, but you were saying something now about the available time to think over your thumb, that you didn't even read the decree, and I hope to argue. It says, the bookkeeping value on 31.12.2004, all this property will be valued before it will be sold and sold at a public auction. At what price do I think, colleague Breda, that you are not psychic, that you would know at this very moment at which the square meter will be sold in Domžal, Isola, Piran or Ljubljana, not housing, not business premises.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u157	I also categorically do not allow a replica to be reproduced because the rules of procedure do not allow it, or only in exceptional cases. Please, please, I pray for peace in the hall. The next word is Master Janez Kramberger. You're giving up? So obviously, if I were to say that if I paraphrased Mr. Mohet, who speaks Latin, I would say "qui touchet, centive vitae", he who is silent seems to be attached or failing. Blackbell. Not at all. Once again, and perhaps also on behalf of the President, I can say this, those who give up the debate kindly please come to the President or order your professional colleagues to log out properly in advance. Yeah, that's right. Some order must be possible if we already have rules of procedure. Stanislav Brenčič. Not at all. Aleš Gulič. Probably.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u158	Dear Presidents, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! We have talked about these matters in a number of ways in these days. I must say that the draft budget, the implementation of the budget, has actually created one such confusion and a great deal of chance of will, so I am also clear that this proposal for the sale of property of the Republic of Slovenia has made some kind of mitigation. Despite my knowledge that we know that these things will then be sold at auctions, to bid and so on, still worry about the starting prices, I have a feeling that the author of this proposal has fallen into this euphoria of Christmas time and, of course, put state assets into action and for sale. It would not be so bad if they knew exactly what it would be for, but it all shows that it will not serve development, nor stability, but that it will serve a flash, that it will primarily serve to cover emerging debts and, in fact, we are taking not only ourselves but also the generations that are coming after us. True, it may not be a large sum, but it is also a symbolic matter. In the end, it can happen that there will not be much of all state property left. And those who come after us will have nothing to take into their hands. This applies mainly to those companies, to those activities which, however, represent some civilizational modern, modern infrastructure, Telekom and so on. Why are good companies being sold? Companies that bring something of value, that's a question that the coalition will have to answer if it doesn't want to answer that government or the ruler. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u159	Thank you very much. I checked out on my own in time because I'm running the session, so let's move on. I can see from the audience that Mr Hwauc has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u160	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So behind the microphone we can just think of whether the prices are too high or too low, I don't think that's right. Why? Because the valuation in this decree is not just like that, but it has some basis, namely the manner, conditions and procedure for the sale of real property, are defined by the Regulation on the acquisition, disposal and management of real property of the State and the municipalities. This Regulation was adopted in 2003, and in 2003 someone laid down certain conditions on the basis of which this property is sold and for the valuation of housing and housing, the valuation methods provided for in Article 35 of this Regulation apply. So if we have some rules, we have to stick to them, and the market itself will set some real market price, and that is why we also have an auction. However, as far as financial assets are concerned, there are no other options like taking a book value at this point. It's just standards. At what cost these shares will be sold, which will depend on the situation when it will actually be sold. We know that things can change quickly on the market. Even if it's gonna be sold under a table in a tight circle, I don't know where the basis is. That is why we sell this at a public auction where anyone can apply, where there will be more auctioneers, if there is a lower starting price, and I do not know what is funny here, Mrs Pečanova. [[Back-up advertising.]] Yeah, yeah, because if this was done differently before, well, maybe some people have, I don't know, reservations. I would also point out that this is not a complex sales programme. The explanation clearly states that a specific programme will be prepared for each equity share, with several aspects, and that programme will show what is worth, what is the stake or who is fully sold, how, under what conditions. So when we talk about this, I ask that we be consistent and take into account in fact everything that comes out of this decree. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u161	Thank you very much. We have two more speakers, Mr Kumer and Dr Ganttar, or just Mr Kumer.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u162	Thank you for your word. I agree with those who discussed today that perhaps we have not all read the entire decree. When it comes to real property, I would like to point out that the deadline in which I asked the Minister to back off, 2004 and 2003, has expired to give me precise information on the effects of the divestment of this real estate. The deadline has expired, and I don't have this data until today, so we wouldn't be saying "over the thumb" today, so we understand each other. Secondly, the government has committed itself, I will quote again, it has committed itself to a coalition agreement and a reform document to make specific programmes for the sale of the financial share. And since the concrete programme of measures stated that it would be by the end of the year, I expected if we had a decree to have this programme before us today. We don't have that yet, so I don't believe that the government will come for every company next year because it won't do that in the package before this National Assembly and show us this programme for the disposal of this state-owned property. I just don't believe it today, and I don't believe the words.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u163	Thank you very much. I also give the floor to a representative of the government, to Minister Dr. Bayuk, if he wishes to say anything, or to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u164	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. There may be some things that need to be highlighted, whether it is stated in the explanatory notes or clearly set out in the Public Finance Act. Certain issues raised in this debate may require this. It is clear that, unless otherwise specified, they go according to the Public Finance Act from the sale of assets into the budget, in the sense of reducing the State's debt, which is already provided for in the law itself. As far as the program's concerned. We have just heard again doubts as to what the government is actually doing in this area. The measures taken by the Government as a framework for further reforms, which we are convinced are absolutely necessary in order to really implement the Lisbon Strategy in Slovenia and to implement the strategy for the development of the Republic of Slovenia, foresee certain things that are already partly involved in this programme. However, unless they are included and clearly stated, on the basis of these measures, the Government's special decision has created certain commissions that are currently preparing the starting points and the options that the State really has to implement these things. The fact is that the regulation, which provides for the way financial assets are sold, which was adopted in 2003, is fully in force and will be fully adhered to and implemented. However, if there is any sale of assets not included in this list, it is in itself understood that the National Assembly will have to be informed. In most cases, what is included in this list of companies that have already been identified for sale in the budgets for 2004 and 2005, sales have not yet been completed, implementation is still under way, and these are those that are also so marked. This is about Pekko, Telekom, Nafta Lendava, BSCDO in accordance with the law on promoting coherent regional development, which has been in force since 5.11. [[...]] 2005, within three months, the share of the BSCDO State is free of charge transferred to local communities, Puh d.d., Fortuna, Garduna, Pil etc., Toplarna Hrastnik, metallurgy, RSCM construction materials d.o.o., Dravske Elektrarna Maribor and Talum d.d., these are all companies that have already been ratified in the past, certain procedures are ongoing and continue. [[...]] However, new ones are included, and they are only 10, and in addition to these tens, one list is extensive, from 25 investments, where the country has less than 1% of the share. So there is no need to arouse any doubt as to the procedures. It is valid, those who are stipulated in the law, the government has adhered to this law, but you must understand that if one Commission has a deadline until 23 December that 11th December 2005 cannot come with certain results that are still being done. I also understand some of the doubts, because the lack of transparency regarding the sale of assets in our common history has been a constant one so far. We hope it doesn't happen from now on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Please. And you, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u166	Thank you. Dear Members. Allow me a few more words about the transparency of the program, which binds to real property. This part of the decree was prepared exactly in accordance with Article 80th of the Public Finance Act and Article 13 of the Real Estate Regulation. If we look at this article, it specifies exactly what this decree should contain. It must separate real estate and movable property, containing the type of property envisaged for disposal, volume, location and indicative value of the property. This is a property that has a certain indicative price, i.e. a price that has not yet been subject to official valuation, because for each individual asset, there is an individual sales programme, where the objectives, the reasons for sales, the legal basis and, most importantly, the appropriate sales method, where we will follow the objectives, the more optimal achievement of the objectives and equal treatment on the market, will be precisely defined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u167	Thank you very much. I now propose the following scenario - we have some time to discuss, of course, but, under the rules of procedure, the harmonisation procedure for the decision must, of course, be carried out in the context of this debate. Yeah. Only if I can finish my sentence. It is possible to continue to discuss the harmonisation process or the continuation of the procedure. I will also give the floor there to Members and Members of Parliament, and I cannot prevent this right in this part as well. By suggesting that those who would like to discuss should also be informed and that we should not share the time because we cannot share it. We need time to coordinate. By suggesting that we proceed with the debate. First, Mr. Pache, then Mrs. Pecanova. Please, Mr. Patch.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u168	Your Honors are here! I hoped that government representatives would answer the questions raised, especially when it comes to structural questions. The first question under the Explanatory Framework is whether or not the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will come to the National Assembly with a programme for the sale of state property. That's what you wrote in your explanation. Does this mean that, for each case, you will come to the National Assembly and the National Assembly to know, that is, the representatives of the people, what the government intends to sell. In my opinion, this would be a step forward, a step that the previous government has not been able to take. On the other hand, the government representative said that a framework price was established on the basis of the Public Finance Act. I also cannot understand the attacks on Ambassador Pecanovo from this address. According to my assessment, she and everyone else expressed concern about the estimated value, the indicative price, as the government representative said, in the sense that we are trying to survive as much as possible for our Slovenian assets. And from this title, I have to ask you - in the proposal for the sale of state capital, financial and real property for 2005, values were emerging, and we are saying that this occurred before 60 days, i.e. 30 days or 3 months before the end of the year, where the value of real estate reached one half of the value of the market price, e.g. the agency. And of course, I personally consider that this is a terrible policy error, regardless of the grave attacks or statements made by members of the Bajc style, and similar ones, which say that the value of individual property or property of Members should not be touched. And that is why I would also like to receive an answer from the Minister of Finance to the second part of the question of what will be the price. Are you going to tell us again in two years, which was the price or something? So if you show us an estimate of the value, not just the indicative price, but what will affect this indicative price and whether this indicative price proposed by the government will at least roughly follow the market price or market value. So, two questions. First time. Are we going to get Members in contrast to the ten-year and multi-year treatment practices, or at least to get to know the process and way of selling individual real estate? And a second time. What does the indicative price mean in view of the fact that we can come from the sales list for 2005, where this so-called indicative price has reached one half of the market value? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Mrs Pečanova, I regret that I cannot give you my word because you have no more time than a parliamentary group. So that Mr Bajc has a replica, and then if Mr Minister wants to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u170	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Peca, I didn't say by word of mouth that we don't care about the price at which the state will sell financial and real property, so I don't know where you got it, that I said that we don't care, but I read from the material we have available when we're talking about financial assets and because the sale is written a book value on 31.12.2004. I read it from the file.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u171	Just an explanation. Based on the instructions I received from the professional services and established practice, we do not share the remaining time. Why? Because we have a coordination procedure. That's the answer to Mr. Potch, who denied it. Mr. Peche.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u172	As part of the available time, because we are only assessing in the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group that this is a little too important a topic to be satisfied by a colleague of Bajc and to adopt a list of sales of state assets on the basis of the 2004 book value. According to our assessment, one more correct and, above all, a more responsible attitude towards citizens and citizens is needed to be satisfied with this kind of flat-rate assessment, which I said from the 60 days preceding the event, does not reach half the market value. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u173	Thank you very much. I really suggest that we proceed with the coordination procedure for the postponement. Good. Minister Bajuk would like a word with you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u174	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u175	J backwards or already on the coordination procedure?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u176	No, no, it is the answer to the question raised by Mr Pece, if I may. May I?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u177	Sure. The word is yours.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u178	Thank you very much. The question raised by the Member is very important. An important question, which has already had its answer in the presentation I have made on behalf of the Government, namely that the Government intends, in any case, to sell assets that are not included in this list, which is here today in order to inform it in accordance with the law, to request an extension on the basis of its own assessments and decisions to be considered in this National Assembly. That is to say, all financial undertakings or financial assets of a country that is not included in the 2005 list, which is continuing and the additional ones that I have mentioned, and these are ten, in which there are 25 shares in which the country has one percent or less, that we will also explain this in the National Assembly, to extend this decision, the sales programme, because they are not here yet. I also asked the question of the Member of the Social Democrats, as far as we are concerned, that we intend to point this out, and that we are not going to do this in any way in any other way than in the following sense that, although we are aware that from a narrow one, and I am now repeating what I have already said here, from the very beginning, is the purpose of selling capital investments to provide liquid revenue to maximise budgetary revenue, but for certain types of capital investments due to the wider macroeconomic interests of the country associated with economic development, maximising budgetary revenue cannot be the only key objective of selling. The government is aware of this and this is part of the programme on which these commissions are currently working and which will be the subject of a government decision in the near future. The sale of these types of capital investments must, at the same time, ensure the achievement of macroeconomic objectives, in particular achieving sustainable and stable economic growth, improving the quality and capacity of public services and ensuring a successful and more competitive economic system. That's the key. It is true that in this list or programme of sales we have indicated the maximum shares. Of course, it is possible and, of course, it is always possible for the government to decide to sell a smaller share, as long as this is done, and we will also communicate it to the national assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u179	I give my last word to Mr Pecchet, and then we're really going to the coordination process if there's no time.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u180	The decision to lead is, of course, yours, and Vice-President Pavlich, and I only assess that it would make sense to open a broader debate on this. Look, the minister said the government isn't following the maximization of benefits. According to my assessment, you are following exactly another extreme of minimisation of benefits, which is also, of course, the most harmful for the country, according to my assessment. Further, please note or allow me to return to this so-called indicative price. Even now, for the third time, I would like to ask you to answer me what is wrong with the system of sale of state property from the act proposed by your government for 2005, I think that from 60 days ago, when we all came to realize that the value you, of course, set is that value, which is optimal somewhere, reaches one half of the market value of real estate, but it was specifically for real estate in Maribor, and colleague Friday pointed it out. Another matter which I would also like to point out again and which you have also not replied to. Look, Mr Bajuk, I will quote the act under which you are signed, which is to be judged by Members of Parliament. I ask you whether all the companies you listed in this act will ever again meet the light of the National Assembly or not. Do you estimate that the assessment was given today at a time when the State Assembly discussed the case for ten companies, say, an hour, a bad hour and a half. In my opinion, it is the responsibility of the National Assembly that when we talk about such a number of companies, with such a size, with such an employment factor that each of these companies deserves special treatment. That's why I'm asking you because you're in your answer, and I'm going to quote you, and I'm going to quote you, "in the information of the National Assembly." Send the matter to the information to the National Assembly, you know how it can go through the mail on the back. In my opinion, however, you are obliged to implement the rules in the form you have committed yourself to them under a single decree. In this decree you have written down, I reiterate that they are going to the Members of Parliament to be judged. The National Assembly shall consist of Members and Members who are representatives of all the people and people have the right to know how and for how long you will sell abroad or at home. I'd like to ask for answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u181	Thank you. Of course, I will decide in doubt for the benefit of informing the people and informing this Parliament, so I give and conclude with this word to the representative of the government.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u182	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As regards the decision, the amended decision which we adopted here a month ago for the years 2004, 2005 will be prepared by the government by the end of this year, which will clearly show what was sold and what amounts have been achieved and what objectives have been pursued. A report will be prepared by the end of the year, the same as for the 2006, 2007 decrees, as prescribed by the law. By the end of the year, the government will, we know, report to Parliament on the implementation.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Since the government had warned that the decision had been uncoordinated due to the amendments adopted on the home working body, it had drafted the harmonisation amendment you had received. I hope you all have it in front of you. I'm asking the government representatives if anyone wants to say anything about the harmonisation amendment. [[No, no, ……]] They want the word of the Member and Members, by drawing attention to the time available. Unfortunately, those of you who have spent your time have no more, but you will be able to explain your voice, both on behalf of the Group of Members and on behalf of your own. Would anyone else like to discuss this? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. Of course, I repeat my offer, if I may say so, if anyone would like to explain his voice. On behalf of the delegation?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u184	Given that this programme of sales of our country's real and financial assets is untransparent, it is unclear that it also contains an approach, the methodology, as designed, is as different as the composition or list of bidders of individual sales. I'm talking about the resources that suggested selling their assets. Among other things, the Ministry of Health has not proposed selling a single piece of its property, such as land around the hospital in Izola, when the sale could fully cover the loss of a hospital that has accumulated for a decade without the government doing anything to stop it. Secondly, I would like to say that it is already true that it does not appear in the decree that the book value at the end of 2004 is the basis for determining the value of real estate. However, it is also necessary to know that the vast majority of these items are not true at all that they are book value, but it is explicitly in this very small text - this is proof that I read the decree - written that the valuation has been carried out or that the valuation has not been carried out, it is said that this is not a book value. In addition, I would say that, for example, in Koper Ukmar's 1713 market, it certainly cannot have a bookkeeping value of 177 million tolars. It is said that colleagues who report to the opposition that they do not read the decree should first read what it says and, in particular, in the accompanying list. Finally, in the Izola congregation, we never sold any real estate outside the auction or public bidding. The prices that we achieved at our auctions were at least two to two-and-a-half times higher than the prices for a square meter of apartment, business space or land here. As a result, the parliamentary group will not support the harmonisation amendment, nor will it support the decision itself.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Your explanation of vote, though, was about voting on the ruling as a whole, but I just didn't want to interrupt you. Mr. Peche. [[You're giving up.]] Let me reiterate that we are now explaining our vote before the vote on the harmonisation amendment. Anyone else want a word? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 6. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against six.]] I take it that the harmonisation amendment has been adopted. We are now voting on the ruling as a whole. Mr Pece, on behalf of the Group of Members, I presume. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u186	I am sorry that I cannot confirm that today's debate by government representatives has been qualitative and transparent. We haven't received an answer to the question three times. We do not know what happened to the realisation or what will happen in the course of the year with the implementation of the 2005 Sales Decree, which should serve us to decide if we want to believe the words of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. At this point, it is very important, given that we are talking about the sale of our property, the property of citizens and citizens, and all of us, after all, are citizens of this country. I also do not understand where the government chooses its sales targets, and especially where it chooses its sales items. Nor has this been explained, neither to this national assembly nor to any of those who accompany us today through television. Furthermore, I think it is very worrying that the Minister of Finance, in his short and my assessment of the performance, has, in my opinion, denied or defined that the state or government is not looking for maximum purchases, but rather favours many other instruments or elements of sales. According to the assessment of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, once again, it is a mistake for the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to perceive, quote, an assessment, i.e. to send the material for assessment, as of course sending information by side. The National Assembly should not accept this attitude towards the legislative branch of our country. If anyone should already know what is being sold in our country, given that we are the legislator, given that we confirm public finances, it would be minimal, which is to know what we are selling, how we are selling, why we are selling and what this is about. We have received none of these questions or very flat-rate answers, so we cannot sell the decree in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Mr Kumer, also on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u188	Thank you for your word. This debate and the Government's replies, of course, convince me that our Group of Members was right in its opening remarks. There are three reasons for this. At the very least, when you adopt a new decree, it would be good if you had a report back from the previous decree on how the previous decree was implemented. And nothing would be too much, even if the 2004 and 2005 decree was not fully implemented, we could have a report on the implementation of the previous decree before we accept it. And they would know how much more over the books or the bookkeeping values that were in the previous decree were seized from the sale. I don't know that today. Secondly, the Minister himself said that the group preparing the programme for the divestment of shares, in particular financial work, would complete its work on 23 December. It would be clear that at the end of the year, a government representative said, a back report, for previous decisions, 23. We will obviously have a privatisation and reselling programme for this capital to deal with this decree in January and, of course, have a programme and everything. There's no rush. There's no rush because I said the world was wrong before. We have adopted budgets, and today, after the adoption of budgets, we are discussing the divestment of state property for the years 2000-2007. We wouldn't lose anything for a month and things would be much more credible than they are now. Once again, for an amendment of three million tolars, three sides of an explanation, and a coalition, you said it was a real amendment and you would support it because it had a good explanation. The sale of Telekom here has 11 typed lines and you claim this is also a good explanation and this decree needs to be supported. The world is really wrong here.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Mr. Mikolitch.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u190	Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u191	In what name?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u192	On behalf of the Group of Members. In the New Slovenia Group of Members - The Christian People's Party, we will support the sale of state, real and financial property for the next two years. I would also like to mention here the debate that has now taken place here in the National Assembly on sales for 2004 and 2005, namely capital shares. As far as I have information, only the sale of capital investment by Kamnolom Borovnik, which is owned by the Trbovlje-Hrastnik mine, d.o.o., was realized, therefore the purchase did not go into the budget and the availability of shares by the Postal Bank of Slovenia d.d., which were invested as a real deposit of the New Credit Bank Maribor, d.d. It is said that the planned realizations were only partially realized, but also in the current decree for 2006 and 2007 it is stated in the transitional provisions that what has not been realized will be realized in 2006 and 2007. Once again, in the parliamentary group, we will support the proposal for a wealth programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-12-12-SDZ4-Izredna-13.ana.u193	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 15. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 15.]] It means the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also conclude the 13th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I thank the Minister and representatives of the Government for their cooperation. I wish you all dear Members and Members more and good-bye on Wednesday at 2 p.m. at the 12th regular session. Thank you.
