ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u1	Dear Members and Members, ladies and gentlemen! Hello, good afternoon! I also welcome young visitors. I begin the continuation of the 7th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that he is detained and that today's meeting cannot be attended by Mr Victory Jelinčič noble. Before coming to the agenda of today's meeting, I would like to tell you some information about the working meeting of the Heads of State Assembly with the leaders of the Group. In view of the fact that all things relating to the rebalancing, especially with the work of the parent committee, have not been completed, this working meeting decided that the agenda from now on should be carried out as stated, only that the 12th item is a proposal for a rebalancing of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, which was thought to be today at 2 p.m. and the 13th and 14th points, are not being addressed. Everything else goes on as it was written. It is expected that today’s meeting will be concluded at 13: 00 p.m. or at 2: 00 p.m. I'm asking you to know so much. You'll be informed of all the rest. Please. Procedural question.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u2	I would like to make it procedurally clear, Mr President, that you have forgotten that this consultation has found that there are no conditions for these three points to be discussed at this meeting of the National Assembly, so they will be discussed at one of the following meetings. But I would suggest, of course, this was agreed, I was at a meeting, Mr Tanko also said this to the media, but I would suggest, Mr President, that today's vote, which is envisaged, if I'm not mistaken, be somewhere around 20 o'clock, be interrupted by the 12th point if you agree to do this vote around 1 p.m. when you interrupt today's programme. Otherwise, MEPs and Members will have to wait until eight o'clock in the evening when a vote on the conclusions related to yesterday's parliamentary issues is envisaged. I believe that this would be minimally correct, so that Members and Members, except those on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, can rest this afternoon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u3	Thank you very much. I think I've made myself clear about the rebalancing and the work of the parental committee. There was no other conclusion. However, as regards the vote, the vote will take place half an hour after the end of the 8th item of the agenda. We're moving to 2. PERIOD OF THE DAY - TO ANOTHER DEFINITIVELY PROPOSAL OF A LEGISLATION FOR THE TEMPORARY PROTECTION OF DEVELOPED PERSONS. The proposal for a law was submitted by the RS Government for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to a government representative for further explanation. Please, Minister Dragutin Mate, Minister of the Interior. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u4	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! The bill before you is prepared in accordance with the Council of Europe Directive, which discusses standards for granting temporary protection in the event of the mass arrival of displaced persons and measures to balance efforts between Member States in the reception of such persons and the relevant consequences of 2001. Among other things, this Directive also discusses and details the procedures for the temporary protection of the rights of such persons, as well as the way in which the European Commission takes decisions on the introduction of the duration, extension and termination of temporary protection. The Republic of Slovenia will provide temporary protection under the conditions provided for in the Council of Europe Directive to persons who cannot return safely and permanently to the country or region of origin due to war and similar situations, armed conflicts, occupations, mass violations of human rights, thereby endangering their lives, bodies or victims of systematic and general violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms. The proposed law also lays down in more detail the conditions and procedures for obtaining and terminating temporary protection and the rights and obligations of persons for temporary protection. Temporary protection under the law and in accordance with the Directive should last for one year, but the European Commission's proposal could be extended no more than twice after six months. The proposed law will have financial implications for the country of the Republic of Slovenia and for our budget. These financial consequences will only take place and only in the event of the entry into force of this law, it is said that there would be a mass transfer of persons from third countries to the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. Therefore, certain matters should be specifically concluded at that time, and the National Assembly should adopt budget supplements in order to provide such protection to those persons. It should also be stressed that the Republic of Slovenia must somehow prepare this law and adopt it in order to comply with the rest of the EU. I therefore propose that the National Assembly adopt a proposal for a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u5	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The draft law was also considered by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent labour force. I ask the chairman of the committee, Mrs Mojco Kucler Dolinar, to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Chairman. Nice hello to you all! At its 7th regular session, the Committee of the National Assembly for Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice considered the draft law on temporary protection of displaced persons as a work force. In its supplementary explanation, the representative explained that the adoption of the proposed law had been directed and directed by the Council of the EU Directive on the minimum standards for granting temporary protection in the event of the mass arrival of displaced persons. The Government has also assessed that it is more appropriate for the transposition of that directive into our legal order to prepare a new law that will comprehensively regulate the area of temporary protection rather than to amend the law currently in force on temporary shelter, since the possible novelties of this law would be more extensive than the rule itself and would therefore not be transparent. The representative of the proposal stressed that the Government had thoroughly examined all the amendments and comments tabled by the legislative and legal service and had given a written opinion on both the legislative and legal services and the opinion on the amendments after having examined all the proposals. On the basis of some comments, the legislative and legal service which the Government considered to be justified has also drawn up proposals for amendments to the Committee. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service pointed out that the Service had examined the draft law in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and from a technical point of view and had made specific comments in the individual articles, some of which had been taken into account by the proposer in the drafting of the amendments to the Committee. Others, however, were not considered justified by the applicant and responded by an explanation. In the debate, we expressed our support for the bill and some of the debaters agreed that the government concept was good and broad enough to provide the basic conditions for the normal lives of these people. Others felt that the legislator could introduce higher legal criteria in the field of the protection and strengthening of human rights and fundamental freedoms under this law. Despite the general assessment that the proposed law better and more comprehensively addressed the problem from now on, some felt that it could be further improved in the direction of the amendments proposed by Ambassador William Rezman. During the discussion, the representative of the proposer responded to the concerns expressed by the members of the Committee and also gave reasons why he did not support the amendments by Ambassador William Rezman. He stressed that this was an inappropriate reference to a directive setting out those minimum standards which the State is obliged to respect in ensuring the rights of persons enjoying temporary protection. The questions raised by the Institute of Temporary Protection and the scope of the rights are, in the view of the applicant, regulated in an appropriate manner and in accordance with that Directive. The Committee did not adopt the amendments by the Member, but adopted them as its amendments prepared by the Ministry of the Interior and then voted on all the articles of the bill together and adopted them by 10 votes in favour and none against. By including the amendments adopted in the legislative proposal, the Committee has also set out the text of the amended bill, which is also an integral part of the report that has been delivered to you together with the material.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Miran Potč, Social Democrats, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Group of Social Democrats supports the adoption of a law on the protection of displaced persons. The law is prepared in accordance with the European Union Directive and will contribute to ensuring the responsibility of our country in the event of an emergency in other countries or in other areas, thereby endangering the lives of the people there, especially children, women and older persons. It will enable the Council of the European Union, in the event that emergency situations have arisen in a third country or region, to be activated on the basis of a decision of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to introduce temporary protection. This law therefore fulfils our country's international humanitarian obligations, taking into account the co-responsibility of all countries to establish peace and resolve human rights issues anywhere in the world. The activation of the provisions of the law and the rights arising from it, as well as the number of those persons who are obliged to receive and supply Slovenia, is therefore dependent on the international community's assessment of the occurrence of the emergency situations requiring international solidarity, and on the members of the European Union's agreed decision in the European Union, which also sets the number of persons to be accepted by each country, depending on the conditions and material possibilities of the individual country. We would like to stress these facts because we believe that international solidarity in an emergency situation and with the agreed activation of all international communities is also the obligation of our country and that thinking about how to help these people cannot be based solely on the assumption of minimizing these rights and making it difficult for them to enforce them. It is certainly necessary to take into account the material possibilities and scope of the rights granted by the State to its socially disadvantaged citizens, but only the mechanical comparison of those with the situation and rights of the people who have had to leave their home, generally without everything and with a very uncertain perspective of the time and conditions of their return, is worrying and inappropriate. Therefore, in preparing this law, Members of the Social Democrats and Members of the Social Democrats have cooperated with the civil society organisations involved in assisting these persons, especially with representatives of the High Commissioner of the United Nations for Refugees and supported the solutions they have proposed to improve the law. In particular, we have pointed out that it is not good and right that the law has been drawn up without sufficient cooperation with them, that such cooperation was particularly limited in the last stage of the drafting of the law, and that communication was generally written without the possibility of reasoning and a common assessment of the merits of individual proposals. We are convinced that this is not a good thing for the government and that the law could be even better in its different relationship. In this way, the government has, unfortunately, rejected all proposals prepared for the advice of these organisations in the discussion on the working body. Very often, too, without substantial arguments. Ambassadors and Members of the Social Democrats will nevertheless be supported by the proposed law, as it creates a systematic and minimum material basis for the Republic of Slovenia to meet its obligations within the international community in the event of an emergency in the world. Of course, we are committed primarily to preventive action, to creating a situation in the international community, that emergency situations do not occur, but if we are aware of our part of the responsibility to help people who are most affected in such situations. We believe that the proposed law will provide such options. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Ms Mojca Kucler Dolinar has the floor on behalf of New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u10	The flow of people is increasing. One part of migrants decides to leave their country on a voluntary basis. Still part of the migrants leave home, family, home, because they are in fear of their own lives or because their freedom is threatened because of their race, religion, nationality, belonging to a special social or political group. Last time, many Slovenians faced this test 60 years ago, and Slovenia was also faced with the mass arrival of refugees from Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia 10 years ago. Under the proposed law, our country will provide temporary protection under this law in the event of the mass arrival of displaced persons, especially if there is a risk that the asylum system will not be able to adequately address the increased number of asylum applications. When we studied the draft law in the New Slovenia-Christian People's Party Group, we asked ourselves whether the law allowed these people to meet basic needs of life, both material and intangible. The answer was yes. The bill introduces appropriate rights, which constitute enforcement, on the one hand, solidarity and co-responsibility, and on the other hand proportionality, particularly in relation to other groups living with Slovenia, as well as with citizens. The essential prerequisites for obtaining temporary protection status are firstly the finding by the Council of the European Union that wars or similar situations have arisen in a third country or region, and the decision of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to introduce temporary protection, which will specify in particular the number of persons to whom our country will be able to provide temporary protection, the date of introduction and the duration of protection. What will our country allow these people all this time? First of all, any necessary information relating to the procedure for granting temporary protection in the language understood by the applicant. After that, transport of the applicant to the nearest reception centre, where his or her identity is determined, shall collect the data and carry out a health check, then determine whether the applicant fulfils the conditions and then issue the card. Persons who are granted temporary protection shall be provided with adjustment and nutrition in the control centres, but where they choose private accommodation, they shall also be granted cash accommodation under certain conditions. Temporaryly protected persons shall also have the right to emergency medical and dental care, to emergency treatment after the decision of the treating doctor, to emergency specialist, ambulance and hospital services, to health care for women and to compulsory medical examinations. Also in accordance with the rules governing employment and parts of foreigners, also the right to work. Under 18 years of age, under the same conditions as citizens, they have the right to primary and lower and secondary education. However, adults can also be enrolled in vocational education or university under certain conditions. All of these are rights which, according to the New Slovenia Group of Members, enable a person to live a decent life and to be properly integrated into society. According to the New Slovenia Group, there can also be no disputed provision that prevents the temporary protection of a person under whom and where there are legitimate reasons for committing a crime against humanity and international law laid down in the Penal Code, that she committed a serious crime of a non-political nature outside our country before being admitted to our country and whether she committed a crime contrary to the purposes and principles of the United Nations, even if it threatens the constitutional order of our country. In the opinion of New Slovenia, this law, which will be supported by Members of New Slovenia, will provide adequate care for persons with temporary protection. As has been shown so far, in such cases NGOs, charities and societies and individuals with a sense of solidarity are indispensable.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr Bajc has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u12	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings to the Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Have a nice day, everybody! Members from the Slovenian People's Party's Group will support the adoption of the law on temporary protection of displaced persons in content and text, as adopted on the working body and as published in the Rapporteur. We estimate that the Government has sufficiently taken into account all international standards and obligations in this area in the drafting of the bill, and some of the solutions we estimate are even broader or more favourable in this law than in the various international treaties, but not by making Slovenia a target country for these people. We also agree with the Government's position that it does not support the amendment of Comrade Rezman, because the issue of temporary protection is a matter of temporary protection and the extent of rights regulated in an appropriate manner and in accordance with Directive 2001 55 ESA. Therefore, as we say, the Members of the Slovenian People's Party will support the law under consideration as it was adopted on the labour market.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mr Boštjan Zagorac, Slovenian National Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u14	Thank you for your word. Your Honors are here! In the Slovenian National Party, we will not support the proposed law, mainly because the new law is totally unnecessary, the old law regulated things better. The new law gives, I'll say, refugees, temporary displaced persons more rights than their own inhabitants. Last but not least, if you want to make sure of this, you can also look at the balance of the budget, where resources for the protection of cultural heritage are being reduced, for an active employment policy, for the protection of the unemployed, and for the people who come to Slovenia, unfortunately, because of the situation in their country, these rights are being extended. It gives the right to temporary residence for the duration of protection, the right to financial assistance for a period of time, the right to allowance, the right to maintenance of the family, the right to free legal assistance and the right to information. If we look at it in detail, we can find out, and regardless of the very difficult situation that these people are experiencing when conditions arise in their country that force them to go to another country for help, they simply point them to stay in this country for a long time, as well as with, I will say, refugees who came to Slovenia from the countries of the former Yugoslavia. In the Slovenian National Party, as I said at the outset, we ask ourselves whether a new law is really needed, or whether it would not be better if the government prepared a simple one, as the legislative and legal service, amendments and additions to the existing law also pointed out. However, that the law had already been poorly prepared at the start, and they also demonstrate the many changes that had to be made between the first and second readings of the law, since almost if we look at the complementary proposal prepared by the mother’s working body, you will see that there is almost no article that would not change. It should also be our belief that the interest of both the State and the people who are found in this country because of the circumstances prevailing in their country should be that they leave the country as soon as possible or can return as soon as the circumstances have ceased, back home. However, since in most cases citizens of countries who are poorer by their standard of living are rare those who actually have a serious purpose after creating a standard of return in the new country. But as I said at the outset, there is a fundamental reason why we cannot support such a law simply because people who are given temporary protection for resettlement are given absolutely more rights than are given to citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Last but not least, as I said, the rebalancing will also be at this meeting, but it is easy to see where the funds are being reduced for Slovenian citizens, and today, in the first law, we are raising some funds. And there is another reason to mention it. These, as the Minister himself mentioned in his opening statement, are financial implications for the state budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr. Willie Rezman, DeSUS, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u16	Thank you very much. Good bye to all of you! The Law on Temporary Protection of Displaced Persons in the DeSUS Group cheers us up for very simple reasons. One of these is that, in fact, it is rare to accept it in the way we accept it. We usually accept everything under some time pressure, but we have given ourselves the opportunity to discuss it in depth, but we have run out of power for an argumentated debate. Well, that's his fault, we estimate. We are also delighted only by the fact that we are adopting the law. This already points to some of our attitudes, although it also shows that we have not been able to do much more than what the directive requires us to do and even a little less in individual parts. So we are below the level that the directive imposes on us. That is why we have also presented a number of amendments that have unfortunately not been adopted. I haven't had one since I was 11. This is, of course, a special indicator to be kept in mind, because it is similar in some other bills, especially when we are talking about those who are marginal groups, or those who themselves do not have the power to protect themselves and are more or less dependent on those who have this power. Let us ask ourselves, ‘ Who is this meant for? ’ This law is intended for those who are affected either in war or in occupation or in prolonged and mass violations of human rights, that is, those who are exposed to systematic violence, including the threat of losing their own lives. That's what I'm saying because it was back then in 1992. [[The anniversary has already been mentioned]] Some 600,000 of those who fled from violence to another country, to another country where they hoped for open deadlines and aid. As in history, nations from our Slovenian environment were hoping for help from our territory when they had to go somewhere else. It is about 600,000 wives, husbands, children, elders, those who have been raped, those who have killed their relatives, those who have burned their homes, those who have lost so much. Therefore, we cannot have the same relationship with them as we do with those living on our own, in our own country, in relative democracy, in freedom, in relative material prosperity. And if we do not see this basic difference, then it is clear that we cannot adopt such conclusions and such proposals of a law that would be more than just a minimum standard. But we stayed at the minimum standard. It seems that the vast majority of all will still support this law. However, we will have different feelings about this. One will be a little bit more, the other will be a little less satisfied. We are not satisfied with this because the concept of minimizing rights is a minimalist concept, and this is not something we should agree on. We're more capable, but this one should want more. The main concern is the level of argument, why not more. I'm just going to write a few of those quotes in my mind, and now I'm going to count. But you can read in the magnetogram who and what at the board meeting rejected all the amendments and what he was saying. But it was said exactly that we didn't have anything to give so much money if we didn't have enough to patch up asphalt. What would give so much money for displaced persons if they were selective if they were looking for hotels with four and five stars. What would we give for them if we became a target country, as if some really wanted to go on vacation, was also said, from some exotic countries to a paradise called Slovenia. Some believe that there are too many rights, and we do not think that there are enough of them to show more will, so we also insist on an amendment that is contrary to the directive and I hope that you will support at least this amendment. We'll support the marriage, but we'll have a feeling we can do more.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mr. Dimitri Kovacic has the floor. SDS. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues, colleagues, Mr. Secretary! Slovenia, as part of the European Union, is in the ongoing process of adapting its legislation to European regulations and the proposed law on temporary protection of displaced persons is one of those which, on this basis, conforms to the European Union Directive on the minimum standards to be applied by the Member States of the European Union in order to grant temporary protection in the event of the mass arrival of displaced persons. It is therefore an arrangement to be applied only in the event of the mass arrival of displaced persons from third countries, especially in cases where the existing asylum system will not be able to adequately address the increased number of asylum applications. The Slovenian Democratic Party Group is aware that a modern and democratic world requires solidarity and mutual assistance between countries, which means that countries are also preparing for possible future situations when war situations, mass violence or similar crisis situations occur in third countries, leading to an increase in the number of refugees fleeing from crisis hotspots. For this reason, countries must be prepared to deal with such a potential situation and adapt their legislation and, of course, take action if such developments occur in the future. Last but not least, in the past, we have already faced an increased influx of refugees in Slovenia, particularly from the countries of the former common country, so we have some experience with this. The EU, which I have already mentioned in the introduction, lays down minimum standards that Member States must enforce in such cases and adopt them in advance in their legislation. The proposed regulation does not copy these minimum standards. In this respect, I do not agree or wish to correct the position of my predecessor, who said that regulation merely sets the minimum standards prescribed by the EU. The proposed law is above these minimum standards. Maybe the standards could be even higher, but where is this limit? There's no upper limit. However, we believe in the Slovenian Democratic Party that regulation at the appropriate level is in line with the situation and situation in our country. However, it is regulation over these minimum standards which are laid down in the EU Directive. The proposed law, in our view, provides a good basis for implementing the standards, which are at the same time in line with European rules and provide the basic conditions for as many normal living conditions as for displaced persons at a time when the conditions for offering protection for these persons persist. This is also prescribed by this law. The conditions that give rise to the application of the provisions of this law do not arise on their own, and it is already by increasing the number of refugees to our country in a period of time, but it is a condition for legal provisions to begin to be implemented, a finding adopted by the Council of the EU. Only then, on this basis, does the Government of the Republic of Slovenia decide to introduce temporary protection. The Group supports the proposed law, as it considers it to be a modern regulation which, taking into account the principles of humanity and solidarity, solves the potential mass human distress of displaced persons in the same way as other EU Member States. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mrs. Darja Lovtišar Bebler, LDS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u20	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. The LDS does not object to the proposal of the law, but at the principal level points to the provisions of the law which provide that a decision can be taken to introduce temporary protection on the basis of the fact that there is an unbelief that the asylum system will not be able to adequately address the increased number of asylum applications. While the applicant argues that the law on temporary protection of displaced persons will apply only if the EU Council establishes the situation under Article 2 of the bill and when the government decides to introduce temporary protection. In such a case, the law will only apply to persons who fulfil the legal conditions and not to all foreigners who enter the Republic of Slovenia legally or illegally. However, that position does not ensure that this measure is not introduced for the purpose mentioned above. We have already faced massive illegal migration from third countries. This is what police reports from previous years have been talking about, 20,000 illegal border crossings. Nevertheless, we hope that governments will make a reasonable decision on this measure. The LDS Group is aware that the proposal for a law on temporary protection of displaced persons is in line with Council Directive 2001/55 EC on minimum standards for granting temporary protection in the event of the mass arrival of displaced persons and on measures to balance efforts between Member States in the reception of such persons and the relevant consequences. In the LDS, however, we point out that, despite the fact that the concept of the law is based on such minimum standards as the Member State has a duty under the directives to ensure to displaced persons, these persons could be given a wider range of rights. We have been together with DeSUS Members and we believe that the country with additional measures should protect mainly the socially weaker population: children, women, the disabled, the sick. We believe that the country could provide the same level of health care that Slovenian citizens have for the children most suffering in such situations and that this would not be based on the concept of minimum rights. The same should also apply to other particularly vulnerable groups, which should, in addition to the law of certain rights, enjoy at least the right to adequate psychosocial care. We believe that Slovenia is a rich enough country to provide something more than poorer countries for people in distress, at least for children if not already vulnerable groups of adults. For the humanity of a nation is measured in relation to strangers in distress or to those we do not know and from whom we cannot hope to repay. For this is a fundamental Christian mercy, is it not. That is why we are saddened by the behaviour of the ruling coalition, which has rejected our and DesSUS efforts for humanitarianism with various excuses. The carelessness of people in distress has also concerned us, for from insensitiveness to the hardships of people in distress to intolerance to foreigners seeking help and refuge with us is only a small step. Despite this, we will support the bill because we want displaced persons who do not have sufficient income to survive to receive at least the minimum necessary assistance in the form of social protection and livelihoods, as well as minimum health care. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u21	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled, which will be guided by the review of the amendments of 13.6.2005 to Article 5. I am putting to the debate Article 5 and the amendment of the DeSUS Group of Members. Anybody want a word? Please, Mr. Rezman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u22	Thank you very much for your word. Of course, I would now repeat, I can not otherwise ask that we only support this amendment, because this amendment has the effect that our law will not be inconsistent with the directive which imposes the adoption of this law on us and on which the proposer also keeps referring. This is because the existing solution in the law is the one that extends the exclusive reasons for those who have rights under this law, but otherwise as provided for in the Directive. The Directive provides that only those who have committed serious crimes may be excluded from these rights, not those who have committed crimes punishable by a period of more than one year. At the meeting of the Committee, Mr Minister referred to penalties applicable in the field of sexual violence and inviolability. So I went to look at the penal code, and you read it, and you realized it had nothing to do with it. There are dangerous penalties from so much as nothing to ten years. And only after the court decides what kind of punishment this is. Then we'll know if it's a serious crime or if it's not a serious crime. I am asking that we be able to accept this amendment, because it is simply a matter of bringing those who commit a crime back to an environment from which it is not a serious crime punishable by imprisonment for more than three years to escape death.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Mr Mikolič has the floor, New Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u24	Thank you for your word. Nicely greeted! I will not support the amendment, but I will support the law, because it contains the necessary conditions or standards that our country is supposed to provide for those people who are bound by the law. It has been said that the Committee has been discussing some of the arguments that do not support the fact that our people lack much and they would be given more. But I would like to give a practical example, which is certainly true. You know that there are about a thousand pensioners, our Slovenian citizens or citizens of the Republic of Slovenia who worked in the Republic of Croatia or the former SFRJ until 1991, along the Slovenian-Croatian border. For several years they have been pointing to the problem of their pensions, which are also up to 50% lower than those received in the Republic of Slovenia. And we haven't solved this problem until today. We didn't save him because there's no money. When this problem is resolved, then I will also vote for a certain law that will be similar to that or specifically for one that will provide more than those minimum standards. That is precisely why I believe that the law is well prepared according to our situation, and I will also support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mrs. Mojca Kucler Dolinar has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u26	Thank you very much. I will vote against this amendment myself. I did not want to make an introductory call, but, however, because fellow Member Rezman misinterpreted this provision of the law or this second paragraph of the law. In the second paragraph, the law also provides that temporary protection cannot be granted to persons who have been legally convicted of an offence in the Republic of Slovenia for a non-conditional term of imprisonment longer than one year and the sentence has not yet been deleted. This is completely different from what you said to talk about "hazard punishment for a crime". Thus, this crime can pose a much greater threat and has been imposed for a period of one year without conditional enforcement. So this interpretation of yours can't possibly hold. And as I said, I can't support it on my own.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Please, a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u28	It's a very short replica. I'll ask you to listen. I was talking about the penal code that says about the penalties at stake. At least lawyers should understand that if we're philosophers [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Ms Breda Pecan, Social Democrats, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u30	Thank you so much for saying that. I will support this amendment, and I am sorry that we have no one else at our disposal, because the working body has taken the right to judge mercy and humanity. I would like to point out that the following is recorded in the third paragraph of Article 6: "A serious offence of a non-political nature is an offence of a non-political nature for which the sentence of imprisonment in the Republic of Slovenia is longer than three years." Thus, the initial penalty must be imposed for more than three years. And it would be logical that when we speak of Article 5, paragraph 2, this definition would be repeated here. For this reason, I believe that Comrade Rezman is absolutely right when he proposes that the amount of the fine imposed be legal, but not deleted. It means that it's a human being to think a little bit about what it means. This means that it is a man who has lived in Slovenia in the past, where he has committed a crime and this punishment has not been erased, which means that it has been a long time since then, it is said that he has returned to his homeland, that there have been some changes then, and then came to us because of his insurance against the possible consequences of the abnormal situation in his country. It is said that we cannot think in such a way that because he was sentenced for one year and his sentence was not erased so that he could not obtain temporary detention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mr. Happy Friend, SNS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u32	Thank you, Madam President, Presidents, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! I would like to point out that, following the April analysis that is available to us, we currently have 91 000 people unemployed. These people don't have a job and they're on the verge of social survival. While we are talking about an amendment that has only come through the procedure, the Social Democrats have also proposed a 45% base of minimum personal income for all of us who would have this status, but did not go through, in fact, free education, from textbooks, to work volumes, free health care. I wonder if it's normal that we don't actually know how to take care of our unemployed, while we give a big spoon to others who would come, of course, if this law were in the form of amendments, as it was proposed, adopted, we would be happy to go on vacation. If we look at the other side of the medal and look at the minimum rights of all these asylum seekers, political and non-political, in other countries, we can see that these rights are minimal [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u33	I would only allow myself to warn myself not to interrupt, but only to discuss the amendment tabled. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u34	The amendment is not acceptable to me personally, and it is not acceptable to our client, the law as it is not. If we look at the rights beyond the borders, we can see that these are minimum to ensure decent human survival and minimum human rights, and in this context we would also be subject to legal regulation.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mrs. Darja Lovtišar Bebler has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. The LDS Group will support this amendment, and I would like to point out that it particularly grieves us that, of all the amendments tabled by Mr Rezman, only this one has been supported by the home labour body. I would like to stress, however, that it has not been particularly pointed out here that all these amendments have been tabled on the basis of a recommendation made by the High Commissioner for Refugees in Slovenia [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u37	I must warn you that you no longer have time.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u38	Thank you very much. This debate discusses the special delicacy and arrogance of the coalition members, where, of course, I also consider Members of the SNS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The word has Mr. Potch, the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u40	Thank you very much. I support this amendment, and I hope that the National Assembly will also support it and accept it. I think it is bad that we are fully discussing this amendment and the law, in my opinion, from sources that are not accurate. Whoever discusses that we should not give a particularly favourable condition that Slovenia should not become a target country does not talk about this law. In this law, refugees will not be gathering the target country, but will be facing a particular problem which, where the international community, including the EU and its world, will accept the conclusion that it is an emergency, adopt a finding together with our government and agree on how far it will go and how many people each individual country will be able to provide, in terms of material possibilities and so on. So we don't mix things up and then come up with what we can't do. Another such thing that shows by taking into account is the fact that the scope of rights would lead people to stay in the country. Colleagues and colleagues, that's not true. This range of rights on this, fortunately or sadly, from which one looks at it, cannot be cited. The law provides that temporary protection shall be granted for one year and may be extended no more than twice a year. In addition, when the conditions are no longer met, there is a duty to return, in short, when the situation in the country has settled. The deadlines and conditions for return shall be determined and, if the individual does not take this into account, there is a possibility of forcible removal, as is the case with anyone who has come illegally. So what you're saying is simply not true. Look, comparing these people with the problems, the really big problems of our pensioners in Zasavje, is incorrect. At least I have the moral right to talk about it, because from my former government to this, I have advocated that this issue be properly settled for almost a decade. We'll see, I hope this government settles it. But it's really unfair not to give these people an adequate pension. However, linking this fact with the issue of the situation of refugees is again incorrect. Therefore, in my opinion, the question of one or three years has been duly explained. I think the government could accept it as a proposal for a solution. I suppose the minister will talk about it. I support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Once again, I warn you, we are talking and we are discussing an amendment. Please, Mr. Petan, SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u42	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! The basis for my decision not to support this amendment is a few facts, and I would also like to present these facts in this short time. It must be said - and this is also the basis for my decision not to support this amendment - that this proposal for a law on temporary protection of displaced persons is in line with the Council of the European Union Directive of 20.7.2001. It's not a date a hundred years ago, when a lot of declarations were written, but it's four years old. This was, therefore, after that sea in the Balkans, so that such a situation could already be taken into account in this Directive. Slovenia is committed to bringing this content into its national legal order. And that's what I support, and that's why I'm going to support the basic law. However, I would like to know which Member State of the European Union is willing to offer a superstandard when some of the European Union's founding members are afraid of workers who are supposed to come from the new Member States. But we would offer those who come outside the European Union some superstandard. And someone will say it's not a direct connection, but it's quite a connection. I don't know how others will look at us if we're so kind to everyone. The next basis for my decision is that we sometimes mix the categories of people who come into our country. The difference between this Institute of Temporary Protection of Displaced Persons and Asylum should be taken into account. There's a big difference. We mix it up a lot, or we mix it up. And these persons for temporary protection shall be entitled only for a period of time when they are in their home country or their territory in such circumstances as to prevent them from returning safely. This must also be taken into account. That is why I believe that there is no reason to give this population more rights than they have in other Member States of the European Union. Finally, the directive is binding and adopted by the Council of the European Union to provide me with more standards than the agreed standard with a resolution of the European Union. I think that our country has quite a few problems, and even its own citizens can't afford superstandard and more rights, and we would like that. It is at this very time that we are coordinating on the budget, on the balance, and everyone would like to have a superstandard or normal standard, but unfortunately we cannot, because our options, our tax opportunities are only the same as they are. For us, there are many basic needs that we cannot provide, and for others we are striving to do so. I wouldn't mind if we achieved that we would have a European Union standard, and when we have something more, let's give some more here. As long as it's not, we just can't do it. I just can't understand why some people care about others as much as others, but they will. If it hadn't been for that, I hope you won't get me wrong, then we wouldn't have been wiped out, and we'll have the Orion groves. Because it's for homework, but for homework, it's all good, and I'm not going to mention it. Why won't I support it? Because I would not want Slovenia to be a target country. If Slovenia has, I don't know, such superstandards, better than others in the European Union, then we will be the ones targeted. In addition, we need to be aware of something, we are a border state anyway, and we will be some kind of sanitary corridor, as some say, whether we like it or not. We probably don't always like it, but that's the way it is. We can't move, we're in the middle of Europe here, and I think we're gonna stay here and we're gonna stay here. We're not gonna get away with this anyway, we're gonna have a little more responsibility anyway. This is also one of the reasons why I will not support this amendment. I have already said this, and I will say again: once we can offer our citizens a superstandard, based on the EU average, then I will agree, and I will also support such a proposal for a superstandard for others coming from other areas. I don't want to hurt them, but the fact is that each country must take care of its citizens first, while respecting the standard that the international community prescribes. We're doing this right now, so I'm going to support the basic law and not the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr. Pache has the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u44	I will also refer myself to the amendment through the explanatory memorandum in the revision of the amendments and thus in the context of Directive 2001/55 EC. The proponent in his opening statement, as well as some representatives of the parliamentary groups who expressed the position of their political parties, has pointed out several times that we have before us the so-called modern law based on solidarity and mutual assistance, which resolves, these are all quotations from you, honourable gentlemen and ladies who have given their views, except of course the position of the Slovenian National Party, that this law resolves the distress of displaced persons. From this city, both the government representative and the amendment's proposer ask whether it is modern, both financially and accommodationally, to help translate and materially to such an extent, and according to our assessment, once again, according to our assessment of the super-standardly displaced persons, i.e. once again, in terms of being solidarity exclusively with displaced non-Slovenian citizens, because we are not talking about this here, but from this place I ask you, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, now and before, because, of course, you are all here who have not done anything for twelve years anyway, one now criticises the current to do nothing and the current criticise the previous that you have not done anything. I ask you, on the basis of this short bill on the protection of workers who, due to the uncompetitive situation of Slovenian workers, have lost their jobs in the EU. And as you know, the government plan or government analysis revealed that this would be 45 000 in the period 2005-2007. Was it not then modern and solidarity to help the proposer, meaning the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group in order to deal with the law? Whether the word "solid" has become modern exclusively when we talk about displaced persons when we talk about those who do not actually build the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. But when it comes to our citizens who each year help to build a budget that helps build a country, suddenly it is no longer modern to be solidarity, because neither the government nor the former government have been prepared to adopt a law to deal with, let alone support it or discuss the law. And, according to my assessment or assessment of the Slovenian National Party, as stated in the presentation of the position of the parliamentary group by counterpart Zagorec, it would be quite the other way around. It would be modern and European to help domestic citizens, those in distress; in difficulty with three nominees, at least without work, without housing or without social assistance. But there are more and more, but no one in Parliament and obviously in the government is interested. The law that we have before us or the eyewitnesses that we have received from the presentation of the position of the Slovenian National Party by the most powerful party that has ever ruled for 12 years and has done nothing but - legislate, better said - the unemployed, legitimized the lack of social rights and legalized the lack of housing that we are in the Slovenian National Party because something is wrong with our citizens is heartwarming. Please, do you even know what you're saying? Are you so influenced by the fact that when you go to the European Union institution, they put up with you and say, "Oh, my God, Slovenia because it has introduced superstandard rights for evicted persons, and Slovenia because it does not take care of our own or our citizens - but you are modern." We think it's very controversial. And if you refer to domestic concern within the framework of the Liberal Democracy, care for the home country of dexterity; please think about what you are saying! In connection with the amendment, one of the following representatives pointed out that the dilemma had been open for 12 years. But you know, it's funny, because this was pointed out by a representative or a member of that party that made up the government for 12 years. Today, however, it highlights the hardship and difficulties of the last 12 years. To conclude this time from my point of view, I would like to emphasise to all those who stress that Slovenia is committed to the adoption of this law, which, once again, after our assessment of the introduction or legislation, however you wish, is a high standard of rights that will be financially burdened, we must not forget this, the budget and the burden of the citizen and citizen of the Republic of Slovenia not to adopt this law or just this law, but, first of all, Slovenia is committed, this National Assembly is committed and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is committed to taking care of its own citizen, the one who is burdened with taxpayers, not only to allowing him superstandard rights, but, on the basis of at least standard rights. But with us, citizens don't have it yet, and they have fewer every day. The Slovenian national party will not support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr Bajc, Slovenian People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u46	Thank you, Mr. President. If I understood you correctly when you opened the debate, you opened the debate after the amendment to Article 5, but I think that the colleagues and colleagues who discussed after we presented the views of the parliamentary groups on the law and now we are considering the amendment of Comrade Rezman to Article 5 of the law, which states that in the second paragraph the words "for more than one year" are replaced by the words "for more than three years". I'd try to put my mind at ease. The basic text of this second paragraph of Article 5 states: "Temporary protection cannot also be obtained by a person who has been sentenced to a criminal offence in the Republic of Slovenia to a non-conditional sentence of more than one year and the sentence has not yet been deleted". I cannot support such an amendment, Comrade Rezman, for a simple reason. To get a year in prison unconditionally - this is not such a small crime. The second time he says, "and that sentence hasn't been erased." We are also aware of the conditions laid down in the Penal Code, which tell us when a person who has been sentenced by a judicial judgment has been sentenced to a one-year sentence when that sentence is removed. Colleague Rezman is proposing, it is said that he could have applied for temporary refuge by someone who, by means of the legal action of our court, had been convicted for up to three years. I can't do that because I don't think that my colleague Rezman has even considered that someone who was sentenced to one year a few years ago to be sentenced to three years of age and who would have taken him into account or accepted him as an asylum or someone who is entitled to the provisions of this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mrs Majda Potrate, Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u48	Thank you for your word. I have little time left to express my support for this amendment for a simple reason, because the persons to whom this amendment will apply are, in my opinion, very few. The point is that once a person has served a sentence, it is right to treat it the way all other people do. It is true, however, that when I listen to a wide variety of comments on this amendment, I only find that the vast majority of speakers in this way express their inability not to support the law that forces us to accept entry into the European Union. That's unfortunate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr. Rezman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u50	Yeah, I'll be very short. I'll replicate. First of all, I would like to say that it is very good that there are as many debaters as possible, because this is a lesson in personality cultivation and value-building. So I invite you to just sign up for the word. Otherwise, I'd like to replicate this as a sort of introductory fact, as if I were defending those who were punished in our midst. No! No! Those who have been punished must also be punished. But someone can be punished because he caused a traffic accident with severe consequences and will be punished for more than a year in prison, we will say no: no, you have to go back to where you came from and where they killed your mother, daughter, brother, aunt, uncle, and I don't know who else. So we're sending him back to the country he was running from because he was in danger of life. Mr. Bajc, listen, otherwise you won't understand. Well, if you understand, then [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u51	Please, Mr. Rezman has the word and don't disturb him, please. Thank you very much. You're done? I give my word to Mr Kovacic, SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u52	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I do not support the proposed amendment. In this regard, I would like to make it very clear, but I do not think that this has been heard clearly enough in the debate. In fact, the condition that someone cannot enjoy rights under the law that we are dealing with is not that he was or has committed a criminal offence that is at risk of being punished or punishable by a criminal code, but that he has been legally convicted of it. That's an essential difference. And, of course, given that we, in Slovenia, have criminal legislation and that sanctions for the delinquents committed are relatively nice compared to other countries in Europe and the world, it is very difficult to say that prison over a year is richer, in fact the penalty for the rich is a fine for the delicacies. Not at all! The sentence of imprisonment over 3 years is, in general, rare in statistics. Most of the penalties imposed are less than three years imprisonment. By saying that by the time they are three years old, they are easily criminalized and over three years older. That's why we'd just set this line here. I don't think it's entirely real. As to what has also been said, it is those convictions that have not yet been erased. Yeah, sure. That's exactly what this is about. So it's about convictions for acts that are relatively new, that aren't old, I don't know how many years ago. Because if she were old, that sentence would have been erased. And, of course, when we are talking about deletion, Mrs Potrata, this regime must also apply here in the same way as it does to our citizens. So when someone stops the prison sentence, they still feel the consequences of this conviction for a certain period of time, until it's gone. And only when this sentence is removed from the record - not when he stops the sentence, but for so many years and so many years, depending on how it is written in the law - will this punishment be erased from his record and no longer feel the consequences of this punishment. That's why it's written here. Well, as far as tolerance is concerned, or whether we're offering a superstandard or not, I'd say so. I think that, given the arrangements we have and which I hope we will also adopt today, we will certainly be able to set a pattern for a large number of countries in Europe and in the world that properly regulates this matter and that adequately protects displaced persons. And that is what I would like to say when there was a talk about how much the budget would cost and how much this would burden the budget. [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] For now, nothing will burden the budget. And even now, what kind of crisis is there right now to trigger action and - am I done? [[...]] Yeah. - in order to give effect to this law. This law will be enforced sometime in the future once the conditions for this are met. There are currently no such conditions, so there will be no budgetary burden at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr. Yellen has the floor, DeSUS.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u54	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Messengers and Members! We will support the bill on temporary protection of displaced persons and the amendment of William Rezman. We believe that the proposed law on temporary protection of displaced persons properly and transparently governs the area of temporary protection of displaced persons in the Republic of Slovenia. Slovenia, as a young country, faced for the first time the mass arrival of displaced persons in 1992. In terms of education, too, individual rights and forms of education should be regulated more specifically, taking into account the needs of the Republic of Slovenia. The vague and insufficient precise provisions in the proposed law should therefore be corrected and amended accordingly in the future. The draft law also provides for measures and procedures after the suspension of temporary protection or after the need for temporary protection has ceased. Taking into account the current situation following the last mass eviction from the former Yugoslavia and the extensive experience in this regard, it would be expected that the law would also provide for other options and measures applicable and applicable after the suspension of temporary protection. In general, it can be said that the proposed law provides a sufficiently high-quality basis for dealing with matters arising in the event of the mass arrival of people into our country and wider into the European Union, and provides them with sufficient security to live and live in a new environment. The provisions of the law are mainly in accordance with the Council of Europe Directive on minimum standards for granting temporary protection, which gives displaced persons with humane forms of resolution sufficient guarantees in the situation to adequately protect these persons. The assessment of the proposed law on the financial consequences of the law is also realistic and certainly cannot be foreseen more precisely in today's situation. Given the current cost instrument for solidarity, there is no concern at European level about the extent of costs that might arise in the implementation of this law, even after our assessment, in particular overkill.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Žnidaršič, DeSUS, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u56	Thank you very much. In particular, I would like to draw attention to this amendment to the fact that it is perhaps a few people or even for no one and that it is too much of a panic. And, of course, when I wonder what the purpose of the amendment is, it is necessary to put yourself in the skin of any harmed person and, in view of what comes to us, even though he was once convicted of a crime, and his sentence has not yet been erased, let us say, up to three years in which he comes to us and asks for asylum, he saves life through this prism, is, I would say, strictly imposed the limit of one year for us unacceptable, on the one hand, and the extension of that period to three years is justified. So I think we're talking about a superstandard here, some big costs, compared to those that are going to make us hungry and so on. So this has nothing to do with this amendment and this kind of debate in this direction is an empty thing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u57	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. In accordance with the timing of the meeting, we will decide on the amendment today, as I have already announced, after an hour of the end of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. The decision will be after the end of the 8th point, half an hour after that. We're moving to 3. Period of the day - This is a second defensive proposal for a law on measures to reduce environmental degradation with dust particles in the upper boundary valley. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by a group of Members, signed by Dr. Paul Gantar. With regard to this law, the Committee on the Environment and Space proposes to the National Assembly that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. On the basis of the third paragraph of Rule 134 of the Rules of Procedure, I give the floor first to the representative of the proposed law to further explain the draft law. Please, Dr. Pavel Gantar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. As is widely known, the Upper Mežiške dolina area was one of the most degraded areas with an emphasis on harmful effects on the environment and human health. Degradation and its environmental and health consequences are clearly the result of long-standing mining and lead and zinc processing activities. In 1987 a law was passed on the closure of the Mežice Mine, whose objectives were to prepare a cave for a sinking of about 420 metres, to repair mine heifers and other surface interventions and to provide replacement jobs after the mine was closed. During the 1990s, the Ministry of Economy and Environment and Space adopted and implemented a series of measures that have largely successfully addressed the effects of intensive mining and the processing of ore, such as the closure of the mine, the redirection of production to the processing of secondary materials, the production of construction materials, various technological improvements, the construction of cleaning plants, the whole rehabilitation and management of the holding, etc. According to studies carried out in 2002, the highest environmental pollution problem in the Upper Mežiški Valley is mainly road dust containing high levels of heavy metals, mainly zinc, lead and cadmium. All untapped areas, especially roads, are problematic, especially those located in the narrow urban centres in the municipalities of Mežica and Montenegro in Koroškem, and we especially expose the village of Žerjav. A key measure that could contribute to reducing this pollution by dust particles is, of course, pollution, pollution, and, above all, asphalting the maximum size of the macadamian roads, particularly those in the urban centres of individual locations. In particular, this means the necessary implementation of remedial procedures and the asphalting of roads with modern asphalt coatings, which would also enable efficient washing, sweeping of surfaces and thus reduce dust particles in the air and thus their transfer to kindergartens, schools, playgrounds and other public spaces. We have therefore tabled a proposal for a law to ensure, on the basis of a programme for remediation of dusty particles containing heavy metals, the necessary financial resources totalling 650 million tolars to ensure, over the next three years, the asphalting of macadam roads and other macadamian surfaces and the re-inflation of already asphalted roads, where planting of grassland and planting of shrubs and trees is also necessary. This would, as I mentioned earlier, significantly reduce the share of dust particles in the air and, of course, also reduce the proportion of harmful substances in the air. Why a special marriage? In particular, because there is no other appropriate basis for assistance to the municipalities of Mežica and Montenegro in Koroška for the recovery of areas for which local communities are under the authority of management and maintenance under existing legislation. To illustrate. A 2002 survey found that, in addition to dust particles, there is also excessive water pollution in America - called America. In the case of water cover, the State or Government may have reacted quickly and impromptuly. What did she do? Nothing special except that it had a little bit of priority in subsidising investments in water supply, and thus put Mežica on a higher level, a new coverage to a higher level, and thus the municipality could have already approached the construction of a new coverage. However, there is no legal basis for the allocation of budgetary resources for the rehabilitation of courtyards, macadamese parking lots, local roads, roads and various other relatively unspecified areas. There is no law in Slovenia that would allow the country to allocate funds for this. For plumbing and water supply, of course, it's clear. The Committee on Environment and Space, contrary to the Committee of the Council of State on Local Self-Government, has already rejected, as has already been said, the need to resolve the problem of dust particles which it has recognised, but for which there is no need for a specific law, but there are grounds in the national environmental protection programme and in the law on environmental protection. However, the debate has shown that these arguments are on shards, bad legs, that they do not hold, which of course we will also be on due to a lack of time [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] warnings in the position of the delegation. [[...]] The simplest and easiest way would be to adopt a special law. Therefore, on behalf of the proposers, I propose that you vote against the decision of the parent working body, which considers that this bill is not suitable for further consideration. Well, it's appropriate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u59	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Drago Koren, Nova Slovenija has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u60	President, thank you for your word. Dear Members and Members of Parliament, especially those who have spent the night working, a beautiful greeting! We have a law on measures to reduce environmental pollution with dust particles in the Upper Mežiški valley. In New Slovenia - the Christian People's Party we are aware of the responsibility we have to reduce all kinds of pollution in the natural environment as much as possible. I am sure that this awareness in Slovenia is increasing. But we also know that consciousness alone is not enough. Reducing all types of emissions requires great effort and huge financial resources from all the actors they cause if they want to have the appropriate effects. Slovenia still has large ecological wounds from the past. These are large wounds that are still unhealed, but they are still painful, especially for those living nearby. One of these wounds is the Mnemonic Valley. I live alone in one of these wounds, in the Valley of Shale. I'm glad our wound in the Shale Valley is healing well. Then there's the Jesenice. We still have the unscanned pits where the guadron was placed. The state will have to take care of all these old ecological wounds. Let me go back to Mici Valley. When I was a child walking into this valley and driving between Mežica and Black, I always got the feeling that I had come to the highlands, where there was no more life, where there were only rock peaks. And I wasn't in the highlands. I was in the extinct Zerjav. When I drove by there for a long time last year, I was pleasantly surprised. The former rocky slopes around Žerjeva were green again. There are certainly many things that must be done to ensure that the entire rehabilitation of this area is complete. The current law states that the purpose of the bill is to provide financial resources for the implementation of environmental damage reduction measures as a result of the long-standing production and processing of lead and zinc in the Upper Mežiški valley. The proposal also aims to determine the way and responsibility of the State and local communities in the preparation and implementation of a programme of measures to reduce pollution by dust particles containing heavy metals. In its opinion, the Government stressed that the issue of the bill under consideration was already regulated by the Environmental Protection Act, in the provisions governing environmental protection measures. On this basis, the government can draw up a programme of measures to improve the quality of the environment. However, it must take into account the technical feasibility of the measures envisaged and implement them at reasonable costs. The government has promised to prepare a programme of measures to address the effects of heavy metal pollution in the Upper Mežiški valley, with a particular emphasis on dust pollution caused by dust particles. According to the Minister's promises, it is expected to be adopted and also implemented in 2006. That is why in New Slovenia, the Christian human party, we do not see any need to adopt this law today. Above all, because I said at the outset, because these areas that need to be repaired are much more and this would be one privileged situation. However, I think it is right that the government prepares the program and that it is being remedied. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mr Jakob Preseknik, Slovenian People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we support the initiative to reduce the effects of pollution with dust particles in the Upper Mežiški valley. But we support the way the government proposes, as the government has also pointed out at the meeting of the Committee on the Environment recently, which ensures that, in line with the origins of the National Environmental Protection Programme and in accordance with its powers, it will prepare a programme of measures to address the effects of heavy metals pollution in the Upper Mežíska Valley, with particular emphasis on pollution caused by dust particles. The government provides and we stand by it and we will support it and we will endeavour to do so as soon as possible, so that this programme will be drawn up to a similar extent as the drafter of this law has prepared for the implementation of the measures. It is the intention of the Slovenian Government to provide funds for the implementation of the programme, as is evident in the report, within the framework of the recovery of the old environmental burdens already in the 2006 budget and then in the next budgets by 2009, when this programme is to be completed. As a result, the Slovenian People's Party's Group will not support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mr Sašo Pece, SNS, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u64	Your Honors are here! The burden of the law before us today, according to our assessment, fills the legislative gap in environmental protection on the one hand and in the field of health care on the other. Therefore, this kind of legal initiative, regardless of where it comes from, whether by the so-called opposition Member or by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, is to welcome and support. So in two basic moments, the law pursues two positive goals: protection of nature and, more importantly, protection of individual health. In pursuit of this objective, the proposed law seeks to provide the financial resources necessary for the extraction and processing of lead and zinc in the Upper Mežiški valley. According to our assessment, that is to say, according to the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group, no money is too large for health and nature protection. The proposal further seeks, in particular, to identify activities that would require the country on the one hand and local communities on the other hand to implement those measures that reduce pollution of nature and, more importantly, reduce the negative effects on human health. The applicant further seeks to establish concrete measures to remedy environmental damage. The bill also provides for specific physical interventions into nature, which go in the first dimension of overcoating and asphalting, and in the second dimension in transplantation and planting. So, in the first dimension of the part of nature that man has already reached out to with asphalt, roads and similar things, and in the second dimension in that primary part of nature, such as green surfaces. It has been said that the proposaler - and of course in the National Party - is trying to support this - to provide the necessary financial resources for the period - can be referred to by my assessment as almost some kind of financial perspective, since this term has recently been very up to date - for the period 2006 to 2008. According to our assessment, the presentation of the necessary financial resources is realistic, and once again I emphasise, it is an extremely small resource, which would not harm the future budget of the Republic of Slovenia by the application of this law, in short, cause no change under a balanced budget. However, as regards the opinions we have received from members of the National Assembly, I will first stop in the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. According to our assessment, the legislative and legal service is sending Members and Members, as part of its decision, to the negative position that the proposed measures in this law appear in any way already in the law on environmental protection. According to our assessment, the position of the legislative and legal service is solely a political position and, by no means, is, regrettably, a substantive or legal opinion that should come from the legislative and legal service. Furthermore, we have also received the position of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which, unfortunately, I stress again negative and targeted, we could say, against nature conservation on the one hand and, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, against maintaining a healthy way of life. In its opinion, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia said or referred the National Assembly to the thought that the proposed measures under this Act, as I pointed out at the outset, should be implemented in a programme of measures, which on the one hand - and I think one of the speakers or speakers even welcomed me. But knowing the work of this government, which is unfortunately no different from the work of the previous government, and knowing the parliamentary work, we know that these words are such as "yes, because this matter is good on the one hand, we will make it happen in the other, as a matter of law or even a legal act", but of course they mean the loss of the reality of the said matter of law. Let me point out from this place that it is the Slovenian National Party under this government that has already experienced the same conclusion four times, so that the government will ensure the realisation of matter, but of course it has not. So in the Holiday Act, in the Chamber of Commerce, Veterinary and the like. However, regardless of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, it is our view that this law should be adopted, which would mean a faster step [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] and the surrounding areas. [[...]] We therefore support the draft law in the National Party, but we oppose the negative position of the parent working body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Yelen, DeSUS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u66	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Messengers and Members! I would like to submit to the bill measures to reduce environmental pollution with dust particles in the Upper Mežiški valley. In our Group of Members, we support the position or solution of the Committee of the National Assembly on Environment and Space, and therefore we will not support the proposal of a law proposed by the 10 Members and Members of the National Assembly, with the first-signed Dr Paul Gantar. We believe that in this proposed solution it is not a comprehensive solution to the problems of the people of the Upper Mežiški valley, but only for partial proposals that have not been positively accepted at the meeting of the home labour body, this is the Committee on Environment and Space. We agree that the country is the one that needs to take care of the reduction of pollution with dust particles, and this in its entirety. For we believe that the entire environment, water, earth, air, as well as people who have been living with their exposed lives for a number of years have been severely affected by the trend of pollution caused by the mining and rehabilitation of the affected area. In the parliamentary group, we support the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to establish, in cooperation with the municipality or with all affected citizens, a programme of measures to improve the overall quality of the environment and the resolution of unhealthy life in the residential environment of the Upper Mežiške valley. In this case, we believe that the envisaged measure of the State by means of municipalities is an excessive burden on the environment, for which the State is subsidiaryly responsible. In such cases, it would be appropriate for the Government to impose on the Ministry responsible for the protection of the environment and, in cooperation with other ministries responsible for the individual goods, to prepare a joint programme to resolve and improve the quality of the environment, due to the legal arrangements, the way in which environmental quality standards are ensured and the reduction of environmental pollution, including dust particles containing zinc, lead and cadmium. It is also clear from the Government's view that it does not support the proposed law. That is why we believe the government's commitment to draw up a special law on its own that will comprehensively and systematically solve all the problems of the Mishik Valley. In this way, the problem will be resolved as quickly as possible and in the interests of the health of the place, the environment and the development of the narrow valley. The Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners will therefore vote against the adoption.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mr Miro Friday, SDS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u68	The proposal for a law on measures to reduce pollution of the environment with dust particles in the Upper Mežiški valley, which it has tabled in the LDS parliamentary procedure, is too partial to make a comprehensive contribution to reducing environmental pollution in these areas. Therefore, the SDS Group will not support this law because we support a comprehensive approach and a comprehensive resolution of this highly degraded area in Slovenia. In addition, there is already sufficient scope in existing legislation for the rehabilitation of this valley. At its meeting on 2 June this year, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted an amended and partially amended motion for a resolution on the national environmental protection programme, which is the main strategic document in the field of environmental protection, where the Mežíska Valley will have priority. On this occasion, the Minister of Environment and Space, Dr. Janez Podobnik, has already announced that their ministry will draw up a special programme among the priorities in the context of the rehabilitation of the degraded environment as early as this year and that recovery will begin in the coming year, following its public assurances. However, this LDS initiative is very important, as this has drawn attention to this problem, although the 12-year rule of the LDS will also allow for the highest level of responsibility, as the ecological recovery of this old industrial environment in Slovenia has not taken place at the right time. Ecology in the Upper Mežiški valley is, of course, more problematic, but above all more layered than the proposed law solves. In addition to the problems and proposals for remediation, which are properly identified by the proposal for a law, such as poisoning and surface planting, asphalting of the macadamian surfaces, the rehabilitation of existing decomposing asphalt roads, in order to allow roads to spiral and reduce pollution with dust particles, the problem of pollution is much broader and will need to be addressed within other ministries. The problem of the Upper Mishnah Valley is not only the surface pollution and pollution of this environment with heavy metals but also the pollution of the earth itself, or fingers. For many years, gardening has also been discouraged. Dr. France Lobnik suggested years ago that in some areas they would change the finger, which happened in a richer neighbouring Austria, this is in Austria-Korean, where they had or had similar production as in the Mežiska Valley. Velenski Erico discovered years ago in research that in the area of the Mesica the cadmium content exceeds the critical value for three times; lead for 11 times, zinc for eight times. The analysis of heavy metals in the vegetables showed that in Žerjav the zinc content in the vegetables exceeded the maximum limit for 26 times and lead for 82 times. The latest study also showed that there is a lot of lead and cadmium in the tissues of the hens, lead in the yellow eggs and thus within a radius of 4.5 km from the smelter is not recommended to grow and eat chickens. The cadmium content in mushrooms in the Upper Mežiški valley is the highest that they have ever measured in Europe, and only foxes are suitable for enjoyment. It is also an unresolved issue of ecological rent, or of fair compensation for those farmers in the Upper Mežiški Valley who have been destroyed by the forest and thus have little or no return at all. Farmers received compensation even during socialism, not anymore. The village of Šumah in Montenegro in Koroška has a majority of the forest that is 100% destroyed. Ivan Volar, a farmer from Jabor, has 140 hectares of forest, of which 100 hectares are completely destroyed forest areas where urea is not allowed and Mr Voler still pays taxes. Farmers in the influential area of metallurgy in Žerjav are not able to engage in organic farming and are already fundamentally deprived of the type of farming that could offer more opportunities for survival. The situation in the Mežíska Valley is critical and there is a need for continuous health monitoring, especially for the younger population. Recent research by the Health Care Institute Ravna in Koroška has shown these critical circumstances. The study carried out in October 2004 included 19 three-year-old children in Montenegro and Mezica and the limit value of lead in the blood of children was exceeded only in 16 children, while the three-year-old boy from Montenegro had a concentration almost four times higher than the permitted value and was hospitalized in a clinical centre for a month. In the Slovenian Democrats' Group, we are confident that the government will take all necessary measures in the coming period, which is already next year, so that the situation in the Upper Mežíska Valley will be rectified as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mr Pavel Gantar, LDS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I will also present the position of the LDS Member Club. Of course, in the LDS, we support the proposal for a law and propose to the National Assembly to support it by voting against the proposal of the home labour body. I would like to explain some of the views expressed by both the legislative and legal services and the RS government, because both opinions point out that the problem is important, but we do not need a law for this problem, and it is interesting that the government avoids listing specific articles in the environmental law to which it would base its position. However, the legislative and legal service considers, as well as the government, that the national environmental protection programme is a suitable basis for solving the problem. Of course not. Not particularly because the national environmental protection programme, as it is, has identified concrete measures by 2003, but this year is already behind us. At the same time, the national programme covers the ecological rehabilitation of mine closures and state resources for these purposes in the context of the specific laws that were in force at the time - some, such as for Mižica, of course, are no longer in force. Therefore, there is no legal basis and financial basis in the national environmental protection programme at present, but at the same time national programmes do not have statutory status and do not in general constitute the legal basis for allocating the necessary resources in the budget. What will be done by the National Environmental Protection Programme, which is being prepared or is being prepared, is another issue. We will very much welcome him if he is as they say, but he will still not be the legal basis for the allocation of funds. What about the law on environmental protection? The opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service states that the basis for recovery without specific law is given in Article 17 of the Law. It is quite true that, in accordance with the third paragraph of Article 17 of the Law, the country sets emission limit values, the degree of environmental reduction and the related measures. This article has the title "Emissions". This law, which we have proposed, is not an issue of emissions, but of imitations. It's not about environmental burdens, it's pollution, it's about environmental burdens, pollution. It is therefore a matter of harmful substances of the burdened dust particles which have remained as part of the environmental burden after the final recovery of mining, etc. If a company with emissions today causes excessive burden on dust particles, all the legal bases are given. That's not what this is about. It's not about shows, it's about impressions, and it was overlooked. What about Article 24 of the law under which a State may declare a part of the environment to be a degraded area if it is classified as a class with the highest level of burden? Over-values of dust particles will certainly not be enough for such a qualification, I say today. If so, then, in a substantive sense, the announcement of the urban or subsequent districts of Mežica and Črna in Koroškem would be highly counterproductive to the population. The place and the inhabitants, as has already been warned, are barely free from the curses of lead and are already developing new offers in attractive environments. Nature has changed, too, even though we will live with the consequences for a long time. Now they would only be declared a maximum-hazard area for the purpose of remediation of dust pollution. You can write down all local efforts, all tourism and all these development projects that exist in Upper Mežiška. Therefore, even under this Article, there is no real reason to declare a degraded area, but if declared, it would be detrimental to the development of the valley as a whole. They say the marriage is too partial, of course, it's not true. This law solves a certain problem. Many problems have already been solved in the 1990s, during the 12-year rule of the LDS, problems in this area have been resolved, those we knew of, we did not know about dust particles in this form. There is no need to work on a comprehensive programme to solve certain problems. We must be aware, however comprehensive or otherwise you wish to do so, that the inhabitants of the Upper Mežiški Valley will live with the consequences of 300-year-old mining of lead. And they're gonna have to be for a long time. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Careful than the others, more careful, less they'll be left with, I'll say, vegetables and so on. They will have to live with this for a while, and therefore I think that this law is a very good basis for immediate action. It will be a solution and based on a new environmental protection programme. [[...]] The path to recovery will be harder, slower, and probably more expensive. So once again, it is not a question of prestige, it is a matter of solving problems. And it would be good for all of us to support this marriage together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber, Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u72	Thank you for your word and a nice hello. In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, we support the proposal for a law on measures to reduce environmental pollution by dust particles in the Upper Mežiški valley. This is a known fact which has already been confirmed in several studies. Pollution with lead, zinc and cadmium and the presence of heavy metals was detected in both wild animals, mushrooms, plants and living environments in the 1980s. This is an extremely large and serious environmental problem. Recent studies also confirm this problem. Indeed, the 2005 revision of the study also points to the still very serious consequences of mining and the high level of presence of heavy metals. What is particularly worrying is that heavy metals have a health impact. And what is even more worrying is the health of children who are far more vulnerable to heavy metals. If we really want to address this problem successfully, the legal basis is the only appropriate path, regardless of the fact that the environmental protection law and the national environmental programme provide some kind of legal basis, they still do not provide sufficient effective measures to address this problem. All mines or most mines are closed on the basis of specific laws and only a specific law makes it possible to carry out the necessary measures. In this case, it is the consequences of mining, which have not been effectively eliminated by the previous Act on the closure of the Mežica mine. It is therefore necessary to precisely define this problem in the law and to carry out all the remedial measures. Experience has shown that areas and mines that were not closed by law are not yet fully repaired. One such case is the mine of brown coal in Kočev, which has never been closed on the basis of the law, and the consequences are still felt today. Therefore, the Government's view that it will try to resolve the problem already under the Environmental Protection Act and the National Environmental Protection Programme may be one of the government's pleasant directions, but more serious measures may not be expected for the lives and work of people in the Upper Mežiški Valley region. And since these measures are relatively well-known and are also effective - it is the asphalting of the macadam roads, the regulation of vegetables and the greening of unspoiled surfaces - we believe that we do not really need to delay, by rejecting this law and waiting for the government position, but we need to proceed immediately to the implementation of all the remedial measures and to prove that both the Ministry of the Environment and the ruling coalition have a great deal of respect for the health of our young people, which is far more at risk in this environment. We will therefore vote in the Social Democrats' Group against the decision of the parent committee, thereby supporting the law on measures to reduce environmental pollution with dust particles in the Upper Mežiški Valley, which also represents a major development opportunity both for the Municipality of Mežica and Montenegro in Koroška, which we know that they do not have their own resources to effectively implement remedial measures.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u73	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The proposal for a decision will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 8th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to six. PERIOD OF THE DAY - REFERENCE OF THE PROPOSAL OF AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE PUBLIC CONCERNATION LAW - A SHORT PROCEDURE. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation. Please, Minister Mate, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u74	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members. We have before us a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Public Collections. First of all, I would like to say that this law is before us in order to bring it into line with the law on offences requiring fines instead of fines, and with the law on government and the law on public administration, where the Ministry of Public Administration has been established and it is therefore necessary to further or remarry powers so that the powers relating to the law on public meetings are given to the Ministry of the Interior. The draft law also regulates the protection of personal data collected by the organiser in relation to participants and thus ensures greater security of such personal data. In addition, it brings even smaller changes aimed at ensuring greater efficiency, for example, the proposal for a law making it clearer to limit the powers between the police and the administrative units in the event of different opinions, whether there is a need for consent to issue an authorisation, and fully postpones or leaves this decision-making power to the administrative unit. This ensures that the organiser receives timely information and will be informed in good time if he fulfils all the obligations provided for by the law and can carry out a public event. The draft law further defines the obligations of organisers who organise events, which is their regular gainful activity, and thus provides for an amendment which refers to the fact that this provision will be in line with the rules governing the conduct of the hosting activity. In order to facilitate the exercise of the right to appeal, the deadline for complaints is extended and, of course, we provide easier work for organisers. It also explicitly defines the powers of directors who perform the directoral service and details the powers they must have in this regard. It is also envisaged with regard to the prevention of violence at sports events, that they must be obtained by sports event organizers in collective sports, where clubs that play differently in the first league must also organise matters in an appropriate manner and obtain permits. The proposed amendments do not significantly affect the content of the law, but will contribute to a better and effective purpose and the implementation of the law, in particular ensuring greater order and contributing to the protection of the lives and health of participants in public meetings. We therefore propose that the bill be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u75	Thank you very much. The draft law was also considered by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as the parent working body. I ask the chairman of the committee, Mrs Mojca Kucler Dolinar, to present the report.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u76	Thank you very much. At its 8th meeting, the Committee of the National Assembly for Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice considered the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Assembly. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service stressed that the service had made comments in its written opinion on the three articles of the bill. However, since the proposer has taken these comments fully into account in the drafting of the amendments to the Committee, the legislative and legal service no longer has any comments on the draft law. There was no debate on the articles of the bill and on the proposed amendments which were adopted on the Committee, so the Committee voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill together. By including the amendments adopted in the legislative proposal, the Committee has set out the text of the amended draft law, which is also an integral part of the report you have received.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u77	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Franz Kangler, SLS, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u78	Thank you for your word. Dear Members and Members! In the parliamentary group, we will be pleased to support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on public gatherings tabled by the government following a reduced procedure. Both the mentioned law and the amendment of the law on identity cards, in both cases it is a matter of compliance with the law on offences. Among other things, the Law on Public Collections strengthens the obligations of organisers. It is important that the government has drawn up a good law that ensures a comprehensive and coordinated regulation of the field of public gatherings within the remit of only one ministry. The law provides that decision-making at the second stage is within the competence of the Ministry of Home Affairs and not anymore within the competence of the Ministry of Public Administration, as has been regulated so far. The law also provides for the protection of personal data transmitted by participants to the organiser for the implementation of specific measures to ensure order and greater security of meeting and event. We also note the fact that the introduction of application forms and the transfer of powers to the police has also significantly increased the number of places of application and has made it easier for the organisers to report public meetings and public events. Statistical data show that from year to year, applications for these events are increasing to ensure that the organisers comply with the legal provisions in a consistent manner, and we are also pleased to adopt this law on public gatherings following a reduced procedure, which will even allow one ministry, the Ministry of Home Affairs, to carry out the procedure at both the first and the second stages.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic, Slovenian National Party, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u80	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Secretary! I would start by saying that in the Slovenian National Party we believe that all kinds of public meetings and other forms of demonstration provided by Slovenian legislation are a reflection of the democratic changes experienced by our country. As such, we also support the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group without a doubt if they are officially declared and approved. Otherwise, in the Slovenian National Party, we estimate that protestors who, by their actions, violate the rules and question the well-intention and justification of expressing their beliefs may occur. On the basis of this in the Slovenian National Party, we assess that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Collections is good. Because it regulates the area of public gatherings, because it clearly limits the powers between the Ministry of Interior and the police as the body in its composition, it clearly gives the authority to the editors and the police, it provides the security of the personal data acquired by the organiser on the participants, and it also clearly defines the duties of the organiser. The only question that we ask ourselves in the Slovenian National Party is exceptions where it is not necessary to obtain a permit to collect, but in our opinion traditional events such as the May Day gathering are not included, but only religious ones that do not endanger road safety are defined. Here we are asked what is this definition of endangering road safety in relation to the content we are talking about. We have also been able to identify and agree with the opinion of the legislative and legal service, which has been summarised by the mother's working body. Therefore, in the Slovenian National Party, we will certainly not oppose the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Collections of these clear definitions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr. Willie Rezman, DeSUS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u82	The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Public Collections will be supported by the DeSUS Parliamentary Group, with more simplicity and greater joy to support it, rather than by the proposal of the law that we have considered under item 1 of the agenda today. Above all, because this proposal shows more affection for the people we are talking about. Thus, a positive, affirmative attitude toward people, societies and others who organize public events and meetings helps them to be as relieved as possible and that these events can be carried out with less organisational and other efforts and with greater security than ever. Since the legislature has had several proposals and since these proposals or its opinions have also been taken into account in the proposed amendments of the Ministry, we will also support all these amendments. Because, in this area, we are making changes, namely in a positive way, especially because this introduction of the application form and the transfer of powers to the police will facilitate the work of preparing various events for those organised by them. The amendments also convey the coherence between individual laws, and for this reason we will support this proposal of the law. Above all, we are pleased that some data show that the number of events is likely to be increased due to these facilitated conditions, that there will always be fewer organisational problems, that there will be greater security, and that in this way we will be able to contribute something to our daily life as regards its quality. So because the law or the bill is directed at people to make life easier for them to contribute to the quality of their lives. Above all, we will support this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mr Mitja Ljubeljšek, SDS, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u84	Thank you for your word. A respected council, a respected minister! The Slovenian Democratic Party's Group supports the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Assembly. At the time of the adoption of the basic law on public gatherings, the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group advocated the adoption of such a law, which would allow the right to peaceful assembly and to public assemblies, which is one of the fundamental human rights guaranteed by the Slovenian Constitution. As in all other democratic countries, it is particularly important that this right is not limited to us, except in legally permitted cases. The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group will therefore strongly oppose any obstruction of public meetings and assemblies if this is not necessarily necessary. At the meeting of the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice, the draft law was supplemented by three amendments drawn up by the Ministry of the Interior on the basis of the opinion of the Rule of Law. They were also supported by our Group of Members. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we are convinced that all proposed changes and additions are important and urgent, as they clearly define powers within one ministry, the powers between the administrative authority and the police are exchanged, the powers of directors and the responsibilities of organisers are clearly defined, the security and order of sports events, which may be particularly conflictsome, the equality of use of the language of the national communities in the expression of measures is respected, and last but not least, the proposal is more favourable to traditional public gatherings. It should also be noted that the proposal does not add to the burden of the State budget or have any other financial implications. The Slovenian Democratic Party's delegation therefore fully supports the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Assembly. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we will continue to advocate such legal procedures and laws as will in no way limit the right to peaceful assembly and public assemblies. The rights and freedom of expression of thought, speech, religion and other definitions of individuals, as well as of social and political groups, which are fundamental human rights and freedoms guaranteed by all democratic societies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mr Anton Kokalj, New Slovenia, also has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u86	The Parliamentary Group of the New Slovenia-Christian People's Party will support the proposed law for the reasons already mentioned today, namely the enforcement of the Act on Offences, which requires amendments to this Act. It was a matter of amending the Government Act and the Law on State Administration, where the areas of public assembly are more comprehensively regulated within one ministry, as has already been mentioned today, and in short, we believe that this law is in fact an amendment to the existing law in terms of more life-use if the statements of previous speakers are taken away, such as that the law deals with gatherings which could be defined as public under all the criteria, and because of the traditionality of the established rules of implementation and the place where they are implemented, they cannot pose a threat to human security. Decisions of the law in public assemblies shall not apply to such gatherings. At the same time, we believe that this is also positive from the point of view of the viability of the application of this law, that it is a matter of more concrete measures to ensure more effective public order and peace. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u87	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the bill, it is not possible to discuss the articles, so I conclude the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. The vote on the law will take place today, as I have already said, half an hour after the end of the 8th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to seven. PERSONAL ORIGIN - DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE LAW ON PERSONAL IDENTIFY - REDUCED PROCEDURE. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to a government representative for further explanation. Please, Minister Mate, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u88	Thank you, Mr Vice President. Dear Members and Members. There is yet another change to the law before us, a path on the identity card, which is also linked to the law on offences, is also linked to the law on the general administrative procedure and in part certain provisions of the amendments relate to the law on travel documents of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. The fines are replaced by fines, while at the same time we are slightly increasing the lower limit of the fines and everything is still in the range envisaged, but the lower limit is slightly raised. This led us, in particular, to the fact that the ID card is becoming increasingly valid as a travel document of 1.5. as you know, last year citizens of the Republic of Slovenia can travel with their ID card throughout the European Union, the European Economic Area, to Switzerland and also to the neighbouring country of Croatia. The law also provides for a criminal body or two criminal authorities sanctioning abuses around the ID card, i.e. the Internal Affairs and Police Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia. The amendments are also made in connection with the General Administrative Procedure Act. The link is in the service and local jurisdiction. With the changes we introduce a very favourable solution for the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Until now, the identity card could only be issued in an administrative unit where the citizen or citizen had a registered permanent residence, and the identity card could be issued in the territory of the whole country, making it much easier for citizens to regulate their affairs. At the same time, we are also introducing a novelty so that the ID card can also be issued at the Ministry of the Interior in exceptional cases, in particular due to the treatment or death of the closest family members, and such a document that our citizen does not own and urgently needs to be issued in order to do so, is issued on days off when administrative units are not working or when it is a holiday. At that time, the Ministry shall have the opportunity to issue such a card within one day and shall also have concluded contracts with undertakings. There is also a major change in the delivery of the mail with a ID card, the point is that we reduce our hands from 15 days to 8 days and introduce that the identity card has to be lifted personally. In fact, after 15 days of general legislation, mail can be placed in a drawer and we consider it inappropriate to expose the identity card to such a procedure where abuse can occur. In view of everything I have mentioned so far, I would suggest that the National Assembly adopt amendments to the bill so that we can issue personal cards to citizens after reduced procedures and more kindly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u89	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as the parent working body. I ask the President, Mrs Mojco Kucler Dolinar, to present the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u90	This bill was considered by the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice at its 8th regular meeting as the working body of the Republic of Slovenia. In a complementary explanation to the proposal for a law which represents, in particular, mutual harmonisation of regulations, the representative stressed that it is important that the proposed amendments are prepared in the spirit of the principle of a citizen-friendly administration. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service pointed out that the comments to each article of the proposal were taken into account in the written opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service in the proposals for amendments to the Committee, with the exception of the comment or question relating to the content of Article 13 of the bill. It is not clear from the proposed amendment of the law when the computerised record is to be established. The representative of the applicant explained that, for the time being, there is no technical possibility for a different solution than is now proposed in Article 13 of the bill, pending the establishment of the computerised record, indicating the circumstances of the errors of citizens' identity cards identified in the administrative unit where they have their temporary residence. However, once this record has been established, local jurisdiction over permanent residence will also be removed to indicate the wrongness of the identity card, as this record allows for central management and insight into the circumstances of the failure, loss or theft of identity cards and will thus not be misused when the new documents are issued. There was no debate on the legislative proposals and on the proposals for amendments to the Committee. The Committee therefore voted on all articles of the bill together and also adopted them. However, by including the amendments adopted in the legislative proposal, the Committee has set out the text of the amended draft law, which is also an integral part of the report.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u91	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Boštjan Zagorac, SNS, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u92	Thank you for your word. Respectable present. The proposal for a law amending the law on identity cards, as we have heard, is once again one of those laws that deals with compliance with the Act on Offences and Uniformity with the provisions of the law on travel documents. The fact and the possibility introduced by the new law, the acquisition of a identity card in all administrative units and not only in the administrative unit at the place of permanent residence may exceptionally also be issued by the Ministry of the Interior, the possibility of issuing a ID card in one day of exceptional cases and greater security in the service of the ID card are certainly things to be supported. Nor did the legal and legislative service have significant comments on the text of the law alone and the law does not provide for financial consequences, so that in the Slovenian National Party we will support the law, which will in particular make it easier for citizens to obtain personal documents and skip some bureaucratic obstacles that have arisen so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr Žnidaršič has the floor, DeSUS. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u94	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The position of our Group is to see that the proposed amendment to the law on identity cards has consistently aligned this law with the law on offences, the law on general administrative procedure, the law on travel documents and the regulation on administrative business. Thus, the amended law will regulate the basis, method of manufacture, storage, distribution, transport and service of identity cards on one and the conditions under which an undertaking or organisation may obtain this work and implement it on the other hand. The amendments also lay down levels of control and sanctions for violators of the provisions of this law. In particular, we are thrilled by the change that makes it possible to obtain a identity card anywhere in the country, but not only in the administrative unit of permanent residence. For these reasons, our Group of Members will support the proposed amendment and amendment of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mr Srečko Hvauc, SDS, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u96	Thank you for your word. Colleagues and colleagues, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the proposed amendments to the ID law. As already said by the proposer or a representative of the proposer, Mr Minister, changes are needed in order to harmonise and adapt to certain provisions of other laws, but the applicants have also prepared some substantive changes, which in our opinion are very good because they represent a step towards a more friendly administration, because they simplify certain procedures for our citizens and citizens. These are the possibilities already mentioned for a personal card to be raised anywhere in the administrative unit in the country, we also welcome the possibility of issuing a card at the Ministry of the Interior in urgent cases, including the possibility for an administrative unit as a competent authority to initiate a procedure for the revocation of a lost or missing card, is another step further on this path to a more friendly one, and as a result, we support the proposal of the law with amendments adopted on the home working body, including in our parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mr Anton Kokalj, Nova Slovenija has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u98	The New Slovenia Group and the Christian People's Party will support the proposed amendment. It is similar to the previous law on the editorial nature of the law and brings about compliance with the law on offences, the law on travel documents and the law on administrative procedure. Amendments to the law bring even greater security with regard to the service of the document, since in the event of the addressee's absence, he will not be left in the house drawer, but will be returned to the issuer after the expiry of the eight-day deadline. With the abolition of local jurisdiction, a citizen may apply for the issue of a ID card in any administrative unit in the Republic of Slovenia. In the case of illness, treatment or emergency work, the law allows the issuing of a personal card at the Ministry of the Interior in one day. Verification shall also be provided for persons carrying out the task of making, personalising and storing identity cards. We believe that the state administration is becoming more user-friendly with changes in the law. In this way, unnecessary and unnecessary obstacles are addressed, which is also in line with the Coalition Treaty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u99	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles, so I conclude the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. The vote on the law will be in accordance with the timing of the meeting today after the end of the 8th item of the agenda, half an hour later. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 8. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE SUPPLEMENTING LAW ON FORCTORIAL COMPETITION, RECEIVE AND ELIMINATION, CLOSED PROCEDURE. The draft law was submitted by the Council of State of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration. The Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice proposes to the National Assembly that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr. Willie Rezman, DeSUS, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u100	Thanks again for saying that. By the way, let me say that the adoption of legislation today goes significantly faster and smoother than any article or amendment to the balance in long but very fun night sessions. In the DeSUS Group, we will follow what the Committee has decided. So we do not think that this proposal is appropriate, and we find that it is in fact already seen. The proposer intended to provide support for his idea, which had already been rejected once, in the context of the consideration of the proposal for an authentic interpretation. It is a matter of chain compensation, which the applicant considers would mean, if this law had been adopted, that it would in fact make it easier for individual companies to do this for others, but forgets that the vast majority of those who would not have obtained this privilege would be in harm's way. For the privilege of one is to leave all the other creditors to him who is in debt. So this is the business, business aspect of the matter. But this proposal has another weakness. In fact, the social aspect, if this were to apply, would be practically at all times possible to recover, those who are employed there and are creditors, because they cannot compensate themselves. So when we support the proposal proposed by the mother's working body, we have in mind both business and social aspects. The legislature said no, the government said no, the committee rejects this proposal as inappropriate and the DeSUS Group also considers that the law is not appropriate.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mr. Bojan Kontic has the floor. Socialdemocrati. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u102	Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The proposed amendments to this amendment to the law on forced bankruptcy and liquidation were in fact proposed as a non-acceptance of the authentic interpretation of Article 125 of the same law. Nevertheless, the case is not exactly the same, since the applicant now complements this same article with an additional paragraph. The content of the proposal is the desire that, in fact, chain compensation becomes a normal way to meet the claim in the daily business between the creditor and the debtor. In considering the proposal for a compulsory interpretation, we have found that the legal profession does not have a uniform answer to this question, but the case law has a clearly defined position that says that the chain compensation is a substitute and not a normal fulfilment of the obligations under which certain creditors come into a privileged position vis-à-vis other creditors. I also understand the applicant's concern about payment non-discipline. In the Social Democrats' Group, we are aware that the country's payment non-discipline is one of the major economic problems that has a negative impact on economic growth, but at this point, we would once again point out the announcement by the current government or the government coalition that it will make order in this area and that it will no longer take over the power of payment discipline, and unfortunately this payment non-discipline remains on the agenda of each debate when we talk about the economy. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, I would like to draw attention to the possible consequences of the adoption of this proposal to supplement the law. As the government has already pointed out in its opinion, the proposed amendment to the law would mean that the chain compensation as a normal way of paying the claim would favour only certain creditors. This law would therefore continue to support financial non-discipline and support unequal treatment of creditors not included in the so-called compensation chain. In yesterday's reply to one of the questions raised by the Prime Minister, he also stressed the Government's efforts to eliminate this financial non-discipline. And what is very important to us social Democrats is that in the event of bankruptcy, the bankruptcy mass would thus be reduced to the detriment of the workers of the economy, who are in bankruptcy, the weakest and most vulnerable creditor, who is in the process of obtaining or thus would receive even less wages than otherwise. As with the rejection of the authentic interpretation, we will also support the proposal of the home labour body in the Social Democrats' Group this time, so that the proposal to amend the law is not suitable for further consideration. The proposed way, as I have already said, reduces the bankruptcy burden and damages mainly workers employed in these companies, who have already lost the most they can lose in these bankruptcy cases. They lost their jobs as a basis for survival, and then they lost that sum of bankruptcy payments. We support the proposal of your mother's working body.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mr Martin Mikolič, New Slovenia has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u104	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. In the New Slovenia Group, we will not support the amendment of the fourth paragraph of Article 125 of the law on compulsory settlement, bankruptcy and liquidation. The applicant proposes to amend the existing law at work relating to the conditions, when creditors and bankruptcy managers have the right to challenge all legal acts committed by the debtor in the last year prior to the commencement of the bankruptcy procedure. In fact, it is about filling out payments in a form and a way that is not normal. The case law in Slovenia has been in the position for years that the payment of claims in chain compensations is not a normal way of fulfilling obligations if this method is not explicitly provided for in the contract between the parties. This means that the courts so decide that the creditor of the bankruptcy debtor must repay the amount of the claim together with the late interest on bankruptcy in the event that the claim by the bankruptcy debtor was paid in the context of the chain compensation, if that was within a period of one year prior to the commencement of the bankruptcy procedure and if the chain compensation was not provided for in the contract as the mode of payment. And why will the New Slovenia Group - the Christian People's Party of the Amendment not support the amendment? You know, there's been too many bankruptcy proceedings in recent years, unfortunately. Unfortunately, there were too many of them because of incompetent directors and managers, not only because of the incompetent or incompetent some, but because of their hairy interests, some have deliberately worked on the bankruptcy of an economic society. Whom should we trust today with regard to all the affairs that open daily? At least the existing law allows that creditor, which has been paid in the last year by a company in bankruptcy proceedings, in the form of a chain compensation, to return that payment to the bankruptcy amount. If this is resolved, it shall give all opportunity to the person who decides and even knows that there will be a bankruptcy procedure, which, in the event of payment in the form of a chain compensation, will be included in the procedure. This means that someone may be in a more favourable or privileged position in the light of all the above facts. And because of this proposal, we will not support the change in the New Slovenia Group. However, I must also say that it surprises us in the Group of Members that this amendment has been proposed by the Council of State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mr Bajc, Slovenian People's Party, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u106	Mr Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, government representative! In the Slovenian People's Party Group, we consider and agree with the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly that the proposed solution does not constitute an appropriate solution to the case or legal question. Chain compensation is an unusual way of fulfilling it, as it is a substitute fulfillment under the bond law, which the creditor cannot challenge with a lawsuit. Therefore, the Members of the Slovenian People's Party's Group will support the proposal for a decision of the home working body that the law under consideration is not a suitable basis for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u107	Thank you very much. And Mr Bogdan Barovic, Slovenian National Party, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u108	Thank you very much, Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues! It is true that the bill seeks to resolve the problem of companies settling their claims in forms that are not pre-arranged. It is also true that the recognition of chain compensation would violate the principles of equal treatment of creditors. Chain compensation actually also supported financial non-discipline and, by recognising this, would, of course, have an incentive effect on financial non-discipline. It's a business aspect. The social aspect is also very important, as employees of the bankruptcy debtor have no possibility of chain compensation and are deprived of payment of their claims. As with the Government and the legal and regulatory services, the home labour body has found that the bill is not suitable for further consideration, because, if I repeat it only substantially, the chain compensation would result, or this proposal would indirectly lead to support for payment non-discipline, and in particular the bill is inappropriate because it places creditors in an unequal position. In the Slovenian National Party, we will support the decision we are talking about today, so that this proposal is not appropriate.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u109	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The proposal for a decision will be decided today in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. I inform you that we will proceed with the vote at 1:15. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u110	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I propose that we start with a postponement of voting. I hope that you have had enough time to dine, because the rush is not good in this area, but not in legislative matters, as is evidenced by our rebalancing and the lively debate that is taking place in this regard. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on the proposed decisions, as agreed in the morning. For the first time at the end of the first item of the agenda - this is on questions from Members and Members. Before we go to the vote, I would like to ask you to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. I hate to repeat this, but on the right hand side of the card you have to burn an orange light, which is a sign that you can carry out your mission by pressing the desired button. And in accordance with the proposal of the Member of the Mag. Anton Ropa will decide on his next proposal for a decision: "The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting, on a regular basis, on the response of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Janez Janša, to the question of mags. Anton Ropa on government measures to promote economic growth in the Republic of Slovenia." Is there anything Mr. Rop would like to add? Does anyone want to explain their esteemed voice? No, no, no. Thank you very much. So we're voting. I note that 68 Members and Members were present. 25 votes to 43. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision. In line with the proposal by Mr Mate Lahovnik, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: "The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the response of the Minister of Health of Magi. Andrey Bručan asked Dr. Matey Lahovnik about the protection of the rights of supplementary health insurers and ensuring the uniformity of insurance companies before the law." Would anyone like to explain your voice? Nobody. We're voting. The presence has increased to 69 Members and Members, 26 to 43. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision. I hereby end this item of the agenda, as agreed yesterday, so that the question of Members should continue on Wednesday, if I am not mistaken. We are moving to point 2 to second reading of the bill on temporary protection of displaced persons. One amendment has been tabled and we are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled, namely the amendment of the DeSUS Group of Members to Article 5. Anybody else want to explain their voice? Mr. Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u111	I would like to explain how the parliamentary group will vote, which is probably in itself a reasonable one. It is said that the DeSUS Group will vote in favour, because it proposes a solution in the current bill to extend the exclusionary reasons on the basis of which it is not possible to obtain temporary protection in our country, which is contrary to the directive already cited today, for which some who quoted it know even the date of issue, and they have not yet had it in their hands, because if they had it in their hands, they would read in Article 28 that this could only happen when it comes to serious non-political crimes and particularly serious criminal offences as a threat to the host Member State's community. So the DeSUS Group will vote in favour of this amendment, and of course all others will also be invited to vote in such a way that our law will be in line with the directive.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Someone else. So we are voting on the amendment of the DeSUS Group to Article 5. The vote is under way. There are 70 Members and Members present and 24 votes against 45. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 45.]] As no amendment has been adopted to the draft law, as this amendment has not been the only one adopted, the assembly will vote on the draft law on Wednesday 22 June following the conclusion of the 2nd agenda of this meeting, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure. This also interrupts this agenda item. We continue with point 3 second reading of the proposal for a law on measures to reduce environmental pollution with dust particles in the Upper Mežiški valley. We are moving on to a decision on the next proposal. If you don't mind, Dr. Gantar, I'll just read it and then I'll give you my word. The proposal for a decision reads: "The proposal for a law on measures to reduce pollution of the environment with dust particles in the Upper Mežiški valley is not suitable for further treatment." Before we vote, of course, I give the first word to Dr. Gantar and then to the others.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u113	Vice President, I've already pressed against it, as I will then vote. Allow me, on behalf of the LDS Group, to explain our vote. We will, of course, vote against the Committee's decision, which says that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. This, of course, also calls on others to vote against this decision and to undermine the law by going into further procedure. The discussion on the working body showed that there is no real legal basis for quick and effective solutions to the problems related to particulate pollution, dust particles in the Upper Mežiški valley. Article 17 of this Act, as we have warned, speaks of emissions rather than imaginative emissions. If we are to resolve under Article 24 of the Environmental Protection Act, the entire area must be declared a degraded area and an area with the highest level of risk, which would mean a blow to the inhabitants and inhabitants of the Upper Mežiške Valley, so of course we consider it to be the most elegant, most traditional, the fastest and also the cheapest solution to adopt a special law that will relatively quickly regulate these matters. Much has already been done in this area, and many measures have already been taken, while we must be aware that this is another additional measure that will help. Clearly, we know that residents and residents in some areas will still have to live with pollution that will gradually decline. We are pleased that we all agree with the necessity of solving this problem, so we are surprised that we are not really prepared to adopt this law. So once again, I call on you to convey our position that we will vote against the Committee's decision and, of course, to support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u114	Thank you very much, Dr. Gantar. Mr Brenčič entered the floor and then Mr Gulič.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Well, with the proposed law, the proposaler wants to further address the consequences that have a strong impact on the lives of the population due to the long-standing mining in the Zinc and Lead Mines of Mežica. I certainly understand this and support the proposaler's wishes for the benefit of the population. But here's what I'm going to say. In order to remedy the degradation caused by long-standing mining, a great deal of state money has already been made available under the law. And that's right. At the same time, however, the company’s subsidiary, Sitarjevec Lithija, was deliberately and consciously abandoned. And because of this, this mine has simply remained completely unimaginable with all the potential dangers that this mining poses to the population. At the very least, in the future with state money, as we want additional money to be released into the environment of the Upper Mežiške Valley, we also need to remedy the most urgent potential threats to the population at the Sitarjevec Lithium Mine. Therefore, I cannot support the proposal. However, I certainly think that the purpose is good, but it is necessary to operate with the same vats in all areas that are degraded due to long-standing mining. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u116	Thank you, Mr. Brenčich. Mr Gulič also took the floor. Then there is Mr Weber and Mrs Shirtz and Mr Bevek on the list.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u117	Dear President! Dear fellows and fellows! In today’s explanations for and against the law, or commission’s decision, and against the decision, we have heard a great deal. It is particularly important that such matters should be resolved here and now and very quickly. It is true that the government promises a complex solution, but it is obvious that these matters are actually more important to be put off indefinitely. Of course, solving these problems was urgent yesterday, the day before yesterday, and obviously it has already begun. So talking about partial solutions in a way doesn't make sense. The valley is Mežiška valley, Sitarovec is Sitarevec, Trbovlje is Trbovlje. And if we wait for a complex solution, we will certainly never solve it. Once the money's gone, it'll probably be willing. That is why, of course, I will vote against the proposed decision or that ecological matters in Slovenia are resolved as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u118	Thank you. I would like to take the floor with you, Mr Vebra.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u119	Thank you for your word. I will vote myself to come to the Committee's decision, because I want the law proposed to apply, because it is a very sensitive subject, not least for the health of our youngest, who are far more exposed to heavy metals in this environment. The law also brings very effective measures, very easily comparable, measurable and, last but not least, feasible, which is rare in any law that we are considering in Parliament. And this is what the local communities certainly want, or in this case, the congregation of Mežica and Montenegro in Koroška, because this is the only way to solve problems effectively and this law makes it possible. Unless the law is adopted, there will remain some kind of legal void which will prevent the Minister of the Environment, despite the fact that I am hiring, from effectively implementing measures that will remedy the situation so that these dust particles would no longer be in this environment. That is why, as I have said, I support this law, and not least if it receives Parliament's support for this law, it will be much faster and easier to exercise this interest in the government, otherwise it will be left to some systemic solutions, which are usually not effective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u120	Thanks for the explanation. I would like to take the floor with you, Ambassador Shirca.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u121	Your Honor! Is it even possible to reject the rehabilitation of the ecological problem? I think only a blind mind can, not a reasonable one, avoid solving such a problem. And dear colleagues and colleagues, especially Korosci, you are soldiers, not rationals. You're playing with people who are life-threatening with lead dust just because the solution wasn't proposed by the position. If a position were to be proposed, that would be the best. Dear Carinthias! Dear Corinne! What will you deny today when your fellow Members of Parliament deny you their support? Mr Petek will tell you that the proposal is partial, that it is not only planting enough that it is not just asphalting and removing surface pollutants. Mr Friday will tell you that it will be necessary to replace the land in its entirety or that it will be necessary to return to socialism once farmers have received compensation. Mr Petek will tell you that the situation in the Mežíska Valley is critical, but at the same time because they are critical, he will vote against the proposal in the law if the situation begins to go elsewhere and in an integrated manner. Let him know who can. I can't refuse the proposal to remedy the problems in the Mezhicka Valley.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Two warnings, although we do not have a code of conduct, for the first time, do not interfere with calls and with the noise of your colleagues and colleagues. The second time you explain your voice, I ask you not to politicize it, but to explain your voice. Mr Bevk is next.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u123	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Of course, I will support the marriage because I think it is absolutely necessary. It would be even better if such a law were proposed by the government and not by Members. This is also true of the law that was adopted in the previous mandate, which I myself have proposed, and I would be more pleased if such a law were proposed and adopted by the Government, because it is an important systemic issue. However, I would like to say something when this law is being considered or in explanation of my vote. In fact, both the rehabilitation of the lead and zinc mines in Mezica and the rehabilitation of the mercury mine in Idrija fall under the Ministry of Economy. I think it's wrong. It is not an economic issue, it is an extremely ecological issue, so I think, and at the same time, I am also giving the initiative to take over the Ministry of Environment and Space, which is also a substantive right to take over these tasks. The fact is that the funds for closing the mine, both in Mezica and in Idrija, are then being reduced for environmental recovery and mining damage from year to year, so it is essential that the tasks of closing both mines be taken over by the Environment Ministry, and I think that it will have more hearing for the rehabilitation of both cities and mines at risk. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u124	Thank you. Mr. Magus has the floor. Saivitz.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u125	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues! In the spirit of the famous Slovenian proverb, what you can do today, do not delay tomorrow, I will support this marriage. I will therefore vote in today's session against the decision of the parent working body. Those in pathophysiology who know the effect of heavy metals on living organisms, animal and plant life, will know that their effect is slow, extremely harmful, but persistent. That is why it is important when we tackle this dusty closure and land change, so it is in the best interests of the environment and of the people living there that we must approach it as soon as possible. And this is one such topic that is not supposed to have much to do with politics, so I think that all environmental solutions need to be supported, regardless of where the end of the beautiful Slovenia is, but above all, that they are fast and effective. I'll vote against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u126	Thank you. Although it is sometimes difficult to distinguish between raising hands and pushing, I think Mr Petek has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u127	It was probably me, like Mira Friday, not Milan Friday, because I live in Mizica or in Black. I've lived in lead, zinc and cadmium for 46 years, and I know what this life is like. But I'm sorry this Upper Cross Valley wasn't repaired before. LDS had time to fix this for 12 years. They had their own men in position in the Mezica mine, in the lead mine, and zinc in closing. This company is state owned and the operation of this mine was so that 200 million tolars were unduly used. This was found by the Court of Auditors in 2002. 39% more than planned and 309 million tolars were used for the re-employment of workers. So we're here at half a billion tolars that we could have spent in these twelve years closing the mine for ecological recovery. And that didn't happen. This recovery must be complex. As I mentioned earlier, health monitoring should be provided. It is necessary to provide compensation to farmers who have received compensation since 1928 when the pollution of the merciless mine has been detected or the sulphur dioxide has been admitted to contaminate this mine and until the collapse of Yugoslavia. At the time of the LDS rule, this could not be achieved. That is why I am counting on the seriousness of the government and that it will implement this programme to rehabilitate the Meziska Valley.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Again, I would like to point out that there is no replica in explaining the votes. I would therefore ask you to avoid any controversy in your explanations if you do not put yourself in the awkward position of your colleague and colleague. At least I'm warning you about that. I can't do more than that. I invite Mr. Pechet to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u129	Your Honors are here! I will talk about the explanation of the vote of the Group of Members, so I would ask you to consider my time. Thank you. I would like to point out that the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, as we said in the introduction to the presentation, is at the place where the time was devoted to the substantive debate, and not at this point in time in order to support the proposal for a law. We estimate that the law is good, that it does not have major financial consequences for itself, and that the financial consequences are also divided into individual periods or individual years. According to our assessment, it is imperative to adopt the law and, on the other hand, it should be stressed that the adoption of this law would have positive effects at both levels, i.e. at the level of nature conservation and at the level of reducing the negative effects on human health, which is most important. However, I would like to warn you, Mr President, and your Group of Liberal Democracy, from this point of view, that it seems to me that you are extremely improper to hold a meeting of the National Assembly, especially when your Members and Members are exploiting the Institute of Explanation of the Voice, their own and, of course, that they are probably identical to the entire parliamentary group, and when they allow themselves out of this place without your warning, your Members, who have not only taught this National Assembly, but even taught Slovenia about the culture of dialogue and spread stories, both media and all the rest of the way, to hope for a certain part of the Members who will oppose the bill, to appoint them soldiers or, I will say, precisely, "that they are representatives of the blind mind". In my opinion, Mr Pavliha, you have made it clear that you are not able to hold a meeting of the National Assembly evenly among all Members. And if some MEPs in this National Assembly can consistently afford such word links to designate other Members, and you do not allow that to others, you have double criteria, and this is not right for holding meetings of the National Assembly. At the same time, I would like to remind you that, even at the beginning, because otherwise I know that if anyone else were to hold a meeting of the National Assembly, I would, however, use the same term as Mrs Shirca, your soldiers and probably you jumped into the air in this place, protestfully leave the Assembly room of the National Assembly because you did not first call for the position to be expressed on behalf of the Members of the groups, but you automatically released this from your way of leading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u130	Thank you very much, Mr. Pece, for your comprehensive comment. I'm just used to having a proper session, and I'm not interrupting anything at the meeting, and even less so as to get him out of this room. However, I have repeatedly pointed out today that Members of Parliament should not abuse this institution from any parliamentary group. Everyone has their own way of warning. One in a grave and unrestrained way, the other in a manner which is in accordance with the rules of procedure. Continue [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u131	Thus, in a way that confers on one group of Members, in this case the LDS. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u132	Look, it's unscathed, too, what you've just done. I give my word to Mr. Ambassador Rupar.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u133	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. But you know, I'm joining Mr. Seal. Allow yourself in front of anyone who can explain his voice, his comments. As much as you talk about how you run the session, don't talk, from the president to all the vice presidents, all together, no one. And I think that's incorrect. To get back to the law. I'm sure I won't support him. I will support the proposal of my mother's working body. From this bill there is nothing to be understood but 'work', 'do', 'expenditure','money', but as in many years, neither in Mežiška nor in other projects, there is no effect. And last of all from this debate, because you also did not correct or interrupt it in time, there is nothing else to understand but: "Peace Friday, if you don't do it to Koroshica and Korosci, I don't know what you're doing, but you're going to do it again," and we're going to beat you again. From this, Mr President, it would be very appropriate to understand such messages and to interrupt the others, including yours, at the right time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Mr Moge is next.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u135	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! As a mountaineer and as a young professor of mathematics, I have often taken people to these places for a field trip. Our goal was a cabin in Peca, where we spent the night on shared beds. And the path looked like this. [[...]] [[A laugh in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u136	I'm asking for peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u137	The way seemed so that some who had first come to these places saw the ironworks at the Plains and were grasping their heads when the smoke was rolling, when there was such noise and compassion for all those living in this environment. Then she went the way forward. You came to Žerjav, but there it is, as if to step on the moon, a completely degraded environment. And the Koros, who have been giving through much of their period since 1900 onwards, bread to all Slovenes and Slovenes with their activities, are today, as far as development is concerned, on the tail. They didn't have any highways, they could show that they were still conscious Slovenians. Just look at the plebiscite, and look at Shentanel. Today, if we could bring these some 600 million to these places of northeast Slovenia, far below the average, by law, we all imagine that the government will do this instead of the Members who have the opportunity to decide. You know, we're between "scille" and "caribdo" and I already have enough experience in the National Assembly to have a sparrow in my hand more than a pigeon on the roof. Therefore, anyone who cares about what is happening on our northern border would recommend that they vote on the decision of the parent working body, and in the second reading, we try to supplement this law so that the Koros will also get what they are doing.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u138	Thank you very much. The only mistake I think I have made, and I thank Mr Pecchet for his collegiate reminder, is that at the outset I did not call for an explanation of who would want a word either on behalf of the Group of Members, who would want to do it on their behalf. That is why I give the floor to Dr. Gantar, who, on his own, said that he first explained his voice on behalf of the Group of Members, but now he has the opportunity to raise his hand several times to speak in his own name. I'm sorry again.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u139	Thank you very much. I spoke earlier on behalf of the Member's Club, which is what I said. I'd like to say for a moment, and I wouldn't argue. I think solving this problem is really in the interest of all of us. Why this marriage? Look, in the 1990s, there were fairly large and complex rehabilitations of this area. I'm not going to list everything on the mine that was made, on the halls, on the processing, on the smoke gas cleaning and so on. All of this was done and the result was seen and seen in the Upper Mežiški Valley, and this was also stressed by some today in this hall. Some of the effects of pollution, especially soil, will remain for a long time, even with possible subsequent land exchange, and people in this area will have to watch what they eat, how much vegetables they eat and how they can use it and so on. It's inevitable. What has been found since the completion of the recovery is that certain pollution remains mainly in the form of dust particles. These studies were carried out in 2000 and were not previously known. It was only after a few years that we could figure out which holes, if I may say so, were not closed. And these holes, let's say, are untapped, macadamic surfaces, poorly asphalted road surfaces and so on. That's what this law does. No more and no less. And it's done in an elegant, fast and cheap way. All other solutions are more expensive and questionable in terms of the basis of marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u140	Thank you very much. I would like to take the floor with you, Madam Ambassador Magi. It's a waste.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u141	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I won't support the conclusion of my mother's working body. I believe that any initiative must be supported, which allows the environment in which people live to be more orderly, healthy and gives better opportunities for the next generation. That is why I think that those of you who have spoken about the fact that this is not just an area of the economy and environmental protection, but that another area of health protection needs to be added. I would like to say that I believe that this law is only one of those measures that complement the rehabilitation already done. But if I'm listening to arguments against it, you're saying it's just a partial solution, because partial solutions make them whole. And if the arguments for the postponement of this law are that there is still no monitoring to be prepared, which means that they will observe and observe, analyze, then solve the problem that is a major problem for people in the valley of Mežiški, moves somewhere into the bright future, which some here so like to paint as the only law because they think it all begins with them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u142	Thank you. Mr Kontić is next.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u143	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! It is true and it is true that more could be done in this area in previous mandates. However, this must not be the reason for not taking action at this point. It will have to be realized that the previous government, the previous coalition in previous elections, lost, for various reasons, and that the previous government is history. And constantly turning back and talking about the fact that the previous government has not done so has not done so, but overlooking the fact that it is now the right time to take action and also address the shortcomings arising from the events of the past is, of course, a misappropriation. I think, given that I am coming from an area that has experience in pollution and that we are somehow limiting to this region, for which today the proponents are trying to start rehabilitation, I can tell you that time is still very important. We have been successfully addressing the consequences of mining and electricity generation in the Shaleska Valley for several years, and not all the consequences have been eliminated today, and the consequences of mining and energy generation are unlikely to be completely eliminated. It is therefore very important to take action at the right time. Today I think it is time for me to use this term for the extreme time that the consequences of acquisition and pollution of the valley also begin in Koroška. I think that the last time we speak out for the previous term is over, now is the time to do something together for this area as well. I will vote against the decision of the parent working body.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u144	Thank you very much. I will dare to warn all those Members who are calling in the Chamber that they are doing this outside, if they are, of course, correct and alert to others, so be they to themselves. Mr Petan has the floor now.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u145	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I'll support the conclusion of the parent's working body for a number of reasons. The first reason is because this problem has not been the case since yesterday and the proponents have miraculously overlooked that time is important, that something needs to be done for this area. Where were you before? For now you know all the solutions, even that any other ministry should solve this. You had all the ministries at your disposal, and you'd have agreed which one was the right one, and we'd have done it by now. Next, which is why I will also support this decision of the parent working body, is that there are several degraded areas in Slovenia. My friend Brenčič mentioned only one, but there were more. All residents living in such degraded areas have the right to, I don't know, clean air, to some appropriate environment. That is why a law that will solve things, as you say, is systemic, complex, long-term, that it will not be necessary for each area to specifically adopt law when someone remembers. It needs to be resolved in full. Finally, at this meeting, the Minister of Environment and Space promised to prepare this comprehensive law as soon as possible, preferably this year. I don't see any reason not to believe him. The law is also supposed to regulate other areas that he has also listed. But practically immediately he will take action to prepare for the monotoring, so that we will know in one way or another what is going on and with this comprehensive law the Koros will also get what you were talking about. But I can't get past this, because I've been named in a certain mind before, but we were all those on the other hand who would support this conclusion of the mother's working body, but I would say it's very surprising that such impatient statements come from those people who talk the most about tolerance here with us, how we have to be patient. But so far I've had the feeling that patience should only be up to some thirds, but we can be very impatient. And that really bothers me. I'll support the decision of my mother's working body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u146	Thank you very much. I give my word to Mr. Ambassador Dr. Lakhovnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u147	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I will vote against the decision of my mother's working body, and in this way I will support this law because I think it is a good law and it solves people's problems. I come alone from the Valley of jester, facing equally grueling problems. I am over the hill at home, I would say where Mr Miro Petek is, so I also know the problems of the Upper Mežiški Valley. So I hope you won't deny it to me. Last but not least, I was born in Koroška, and I must say that this logic surprises me in the first place. If something hasn't been done in the last 12 years, it's not necessary now. That's a really interesting logic. Secondly, you've been talking to all those who claim to be in trouble for the past 12 years. This ecological problem goes back decades if you want. And I'll say something else, and the organic movements didn't happen yesterday. Ecological movements were good in the 1980s or one of the important highlights of the democratic process in Slovenia. I remember that very well from the Valley of jester. And I really don’t understand why we would oppose this law, why we could support the decision of the parent’s working body, because marriage is a good solution to problems. If you feel that they can be better solved institutionally, all of them can do so. But of course, this does not prevent you from supporting this law today. Unless, of course, you think that the problem is that even if something is useful, it is necessary to refuse if the opposition proposes it. And unless you think that this government that has been elected has nothing else to do or support, because if something has not been done in the past 12 years, it is not necessary. But there's been an election, and it's been six months, and it's time for you to start working. Good morning, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u148	Thank you very much. So whoever manages to draw the line one day during the debate, the controversy and the explanation, I think he's going to get the Nobel Prize. I can't do that, so I apologize in advance if I ever don't know how to make a decision. But this line's obviously gone. I also have Mr Germić on my list and Mr Jerovska. Mr. Germich.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u149	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. So, in order to write down in the Constitution that everyone has the right to live in a clean environment, surely the knowledge of the past period and the development of consciousness, because technological and economic development in the past period certainly brought positive things, but certainly also many negative ones. And of the area that this law is speaking about today, we were sung by the song Marjan Smode, namely Korošec, when he spoke of the dead river. When he spoke of a dead river that was certainly a consequence of what was happening in this environment. And of course, it seems to me that the problem of rehabilitation and creating conditions for a healthy life is primarily by creating a healthy environment, a healthy environment in which we live, one of the fundamental conditions. That is why, of course, I think it is very important to say, even when I am monitoring this balance of the budget, which is even more important in dealing with the decline in health prevention funds. This means that we are creating conditions for everyone to be able to live in a healthy environment as much as possible. I agree that support for such a law could also bring a quicker solution to more or less ecologically degraded areas elsewhere in Slovenia. Of course, such a law could help. And because of the problems that have not been resolved yesterday to be resolved tomorrow, I will support the law and I will vote against the proposal for a decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u150	Thank you very much. At least we can find out that it is possible to name people who are not in the hall. I hope that Mr Rupar doesn't blame me for this comment. I invite Mr Jerovska.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Your Honor! The party proposing this law, namely LDS, has been raising far the most dust in Slovenia recently with the dissolution of its party. When I heard that they were proposing some law on pollution reduction days ago, I thought they were proposing a law on the rehabilitation of their own party to remedy this powder. However, even as this law is intended and proposed, I find that it is pure populism and demagogism. In this way, Koroška cannot be helped, for at a time when you were deciding when you could help Koroška with her many development and environmental problems, you actually forgot about Koroška. You didn't even put the road on the program or anything like that. I think this law reflects only a fraction of the bad news. In the past, you supported everything that Mira Petek criticized and was beaten to death. You also opposed the establishment of a parliamentary commission on this, because you were aware that if this knot began to unravel, many of the negative things you led with your policy would come to the public in Koroška. For this reason, it actually seems to me that if such populism and demagogism were to be heard and thus seduced by the Koros to send the wrong signals to Koroška. I firmly believe that this problem is necessary both in Koroška and elsewhere, where the negative consequences of past industries are to be addressed. However, they need to be addressed with positive ingenuity, not with demagogism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to explain their voice? I guess not. We're voting. I note that 73 Members and Members attended, 43 votes against 29. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 29.]] I note that the decision of the parent working body has been adopted and therefore the legislative procedure for the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 6th item of the agenda - the consideration of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on public meetings in the shorter procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill in the context of a reduced procedure. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to table amendments in the third reading of amendments, so we are moving on to a decision on this regulation. In doing so, I inform you that the legislature and the government have not informed me that the law would not be harmonised. First of all, I invite Members and Members who would like to explain their vote on behalf of the groups. Would anyone like to explain your voice in their own name? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. There were 72 Members and Members present, 71 votes against none. [[The vote was 71.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 7th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the proposal for a law amending the law on identity cards, again in the shorter procedure. We're moving to third reading. Since no amendments have been tabled to the amended proposal, it is not possible to table amendments in the third reading. That's why we're moving on to a decision on the law. Once again, I inform you that both the government and the legal and legislative services have not informed me that the law would be inconsistent. As before, I invite first possible explanations on behalf of the groups of Members. [[Nobody.]] In your own name? [[Nobody.]] We can vote. 72 Members and Members present, 71, against no one. [[The vote was 71.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the law has been passed. I'm closing this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 8th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the proposal for a law supplementing the law on forced settlement, bankruptcy and liquidation, a re-shortening of the procedure. We decide on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law supplementing the law on forced settlement, bankruptcy and liquidation in a reduced procedure is not suitable for further consideration. Does anyone want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? [[Nobody.]] Does anyone want to do this on their own? [[Nobody.]] We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 63 votes against none. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] The decision of the parent working body is confirmed that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. And now we're moving on to 12. PERIOD OF THE DAY, AND A DEFINITIVELY PROPOSAL OF THE REBALANCE OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA'S BUDGET FOR 2005 On the basis of Rule 74 of the Rules of Procedure and the agreement on a college to which I was not invited by mistake, I propose to the assembly that the consideration of this proposal be postponed to one of the following meetings. Of course, the main reason for doing so is that the basic condition for consideration in this Chamber is not met at the hearing. Indeed, the mother’s working body has not yet completed its consideration of amendments or rebalancing, and as I am informed, it will do so in this afternoon and probably even in the evening. On this proposal, representatives of the groups of Members may give their views for a period of three minutes. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] Mr. Pache, please. On behalf of the Group of Members, there is no other explanation for this point.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u153	Yes, you can. I'd just like to ask you for an explanation. It seems to me, or as far as I can remember, without an MRI, that you said we were moving to point 12. That means we've opened the 12th point. Was it just a lapsus on your part, because I think it's a significant difference? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u154	No, Mr Pece, as well as you are, I am also coming from the scenario prepared by the professional service. It says here, quote, "we're moving on to the 12th item of the agenda, to the treatment" and so on and so on and so forth. I don't see any significant difference either. Can you explain? It's probably just a somnogram. Here you go, Mr. Pache.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u155	My purpose is just to make it clear. If I understand you correctly, we have now opened a debate on the rebalancing. That's what you said. We're moving to point 12.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u156	No, no, no, we're moving on to this point, and then we've limited the treatment of this point to a proposal to postpone it. Okay? Thank you very much. As I see, no one wants to discuss any more, so we are moving on to a decision on that proposal. I reiterate that the proposal states that the proposal for a rebalancing of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2005 should be moved to one of the following meetings. We're voting. Thank you very much. There are 69 Members and Members present, with 63 votes against 5. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 5.]] We're at 13. PERFORMANCE OF THE DAY'S LINE. I avoided the word 'passing', namely on the defence of the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Execution of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for the years 2004 and 2005 - urgent procedure. The comment is exactly the same as the previous point. The proposal for a decision is to be postponed to one of the following meetings. Representatives of the groups of Members may once again make their views known if they so wish. [[No, no, ……]] There's no explanation. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, we are moving on to a decision on that proposal. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 61 votes against 4. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[Against four.]] I hereby conclude this agenda item. Finally, the last point or proposal for a decision under this item, item 14 of the agenda, deals with the proposal for a law on the takeover of the debt institution for the pension and disability insurance of Slovenia and the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia, the urgent procedure. A little quiet, please. Again, the same comment as in the previous two points and the proposal is that we postpone the consideration of this bill to one of the following meetings. Perhaps a representative of one of the members of the group would like to make his point here? Please, Mrs. Barbara Žgainer.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u157	Thank you very much. I only have one question and I would like an explanation on your part. At the previous point and at this, i.e. the 14th item of the agenda, the current session, but not today's agenda, it is said that these two items are not on the agenda for Tuesday, so I would like to explain how we vote or what. I understand that otherwise the business conditions for dealing with these two points are not met, but the 13th and 14th items are on the agenda tomorrow, so on Wednesday, 15.6.2005.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u158	As a matter of fact, I was not invited to this debate alone. If your colleague Peca was at this debate, maybe he can explain it better than I can.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u159	Anyway, you're the chairman, so I would like to, I don't know. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u160	This is what is being voted on today. That was the deal. There's no debate. I don't see what the problem is. Anybody else want a word? Please let us vote. There are 65 Members and Members present for 58 votes against 4. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against four.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. Before adjourning the meeting of the National Assembly, I would also like to give the floor to the President of the National Assembly, Mr Tsukati. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u161	If you don't mind, I'd just like to inform you about today's consultation, which was with the leaders of the parliamentary groups at 9:30. It was found, as you have seen, that the rebalancing does not meet the conditions for treatment. As a result, these two points or both of the laws relating to the rebalancing were withdrawn from this meeting and will be dealt with together with the rebalancing at one of the following meetings, most likely at an extraordinary meeting following the conclusion of this meeting. From the middle of the programme, two laws remain and tomorrow at 10 a.m. they are expected to start with this schedule, which has already been adopted. The order of the debate remains the same as you have it. We haven't changed that. So tomorrow at 10 a.m., we would start with the law on the revision of public procurement procedures, which I expect the mother labour body to complete its treatment by 10 a.m. His mother's working body will treat him at 8:30 p.m. as I've been informed. However, if the mother's working body fails to complete the hearing by 10 a.m., then the meeting will start later, 30 minutes after the completion of the meeting of the mother's working body. It is necessary to ensure that the mother's working body ends the work in peace without pressure. Then there will be only another law, so to speak, the law on access to information of a public nature. Both shall be accepted by emergency procedure, i.e. the deadlines shall not apply. That concludes tomorrow's work. On Thursday and Friday, the order runs as it was adopted.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-14-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u162	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Although it was a little unusual that I gave you my word, I think it was useful for all of us to know how the work will be done in the coming days. I'm adjourning the seventh session and continuing tomorrow.
