ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 11th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Dr. Marko Pavliha, Miro Petek, Bogdan Barovič, Maria Possonec, Ivan Jelen, Mojca Kucler Dolinar and Ferry Horvat. We're moving to 20. PERIOD OF THE DAY - DEFINITIVE REPORTS ON THE PART OF THE COUPLING COMMISSION OF 1. OCTOBER 2004 TO 23. May 2005. The report was submitted by the Anti-Corruption Commission to the National Assembly for its consideration. I give the floor to the President of the Anti-Corruption Commission to further explain the report. Mr. President Drago Kos, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and honourable Members! The Anti-Corruption Commission began its work on 1 October 2004. However, the Anti-Corruption Act provides that we must submit a report on work to you last year by the end of May of the current year. Since such a report on the start of our work would tell you little about the substantive problems we have encountered and about the results we have achieved, we have submitted a report for the period from 1 October to 23 May 2005. This will allow for a more qualitative and, above all, more substantive debate today, and will also help to eliminate a number of misunderstandings about the work of our Commission. The institution whose report we are adopting today is called the Anti-Corruption Commission. As it comes from her name, this is not a law enforcement body, but to prevent it. The Republic of Slovenia is certainly not a country that needs another authority with police powers besides the police, so far it is still in force. The primary prevention of socially deviant practices, which must be followed only in the worst cases by a repressive performance of the country, modern sociological and criminal theories have been regarded for several decades as an absolute assumption for the successful management of socially negative phenomena. The Republic of Slovenia has been following this for quite some time, both at the legislative level, in particular by adopting a series of resolutions with national preventive programmes in various areas, as well as institutional level, by setting up various preventive mechanisms, such as the Council for Education and Road Safety, the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering and the like. And it is normal that this has also occurred in the area of managing corruption, which is particularly dangerous for every democratic society because it eats it from within. As a result, a national anti-corruption strategy has been adopted in the form of a resolution to prevent corruption in the Republic of Slovenia, and a anti-corruption commission has been set up as a body to provide for the three in particular: to implement this strategy, to improve the integrity of all state institutions by introducing integrity plans and to implement the rule of interest for people with the most powerful powers in the country, it is said, its officials. The assumption of such action is very simple: if we are able to remove the circumstances and conditions in advance, either in legislation or in its practical implementation, which condition the emergence and development of corruption, if we raise the integrity of Slovenian public servants to a level, when they will be disgusted only with the thought of possible unethical, rather than illegal, and if we manage to convince Slovenian officials that because they are officials, they will be subject to the strictest ethical standards regarding their official action and their business relations with the country, then corruption in this country will be reduced, the damage caused by it will be reduced, and less work will be done for the state repression. If I say it in the form of a famous saying, I'm sure it's better to stop it than to treat it. Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to say the following, since May, in writing, that I do not repeat the content of the report which has been available to you for a long time. At its inception, the Commission was subject to all those requirements accompanying the establishment of a new body and to the types of formalities required by the Anti-Corruption Act in particular in the form of the creation of basic databases used for substantive work. The system is now in place, and much time on formalities will no longer have to be lost. However, the Commission has so far carried out a number of important tasks, including of a substantive nature, among which it is certainly appropriate to highlight the adoption of an action plan to implement the national anti-corruption strategy at the beginning of its implementation. The adoption of 88 clarifications and 32 policy opinions, in the form of concrete responses to the various national authorities, including ministries, local communities and citizens, tried to explain the content of the ethical standards in force in their work and to achieve their respect. The training of 239 Slovenian public servants and officials and 138 of their bodies for the introduction of integrity plans and so on is included. Despite the fact that the body we are talking about today is a body for the prevention of corruption and can only accept principled opinions on whether a specific action is such as is prohibited by the anti-corruption law, citizens and citizens of Slovenia have taken this institution for their own, even when it comes to purely concrete conduct, sometimes with signs of crime. We've been approached by 302 applicants at this time. While notifiers know very well that the Commission does not have investigative powers, they have nevertheless reported a number of cases that will save several billion tolars in the form of reports of various damage caused by corruption if the procedures are completed. There is never and will never speak very loudly about these matters, except where the media have discovered and reported on them. Not because we're hiding anything, but because we don't want to hurt future police and judicial investigations by making an early mention of the details, and that we don't want to harm the personal name and integrity of those who would be found innocent in the proceedings. Nevertheless, there is no authority in this country that citizens and citizens would trust, regardless of their economic, social and political situation, such a number of reports of potential corruption by the highest representatives of the State and leaders of the various social groups. If I mention in general some of the more important substantive matters that we have dealt with and evaluated in our work, I am sure that I must mention manipulation in public institutions with the aim of artificially raising wages, illegal financing of public authorities, illegal business integration between supervisory and administrative authorities in companies, acceptance of gifts in the form of payment of various travels, frequenting entities operating under public procurement rules, by their contractors, the use of public service resources for private purposes, the acceptance of inappropriate gifts by journalists, as well as by other categories, the granting of credits to the companies in charge of their management structures, the employment of relatives and so on. With our work, despite the above-mentioned polens, which have been constantly thrown under our feet in the form of a reduction in available financial resources, threats to the reduction of the salaries of the Commission’s officials, threats to the abolition, sometimes also in the form of a planned discredit of the Commission, its members, have proved that in the Republic of Slovenia a state authority that no one really likes so much, except most citizens and citizens, could also find that there is no reason that the ethical and legal standards adopted by that country would not be valid for everyone, without exception. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u3	Thank you, Mr. Kos. The report was considered by the Commission under the anti-corruption law as a parent labour body. I ask the President of the Commission, Mrs Barbara Žgajner Tavš, to present the report of the Commission. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues and others present in the Chamber. Allow me, as rapporteur of the home labour force, to present the report of the National Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, which has received a report on the work of the Anti-Corruption Commission on 2 July 2005. On the basis of Article 13 of the Anti-Corruption Law of 31.5.2005, the President of the Anti-Corruption Commission transmitted a report on the work of the Anti-Corruption Commission for the period from 1.10.2004 to 23.5.2005. The President of the National Assembly forwarded the report pursuant to Article 41(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to the Commission of the National Assembly under the Anti-Corruption Act 2.6.2005. At its 4th regular meeting on 5 July, the Commission addressed the report under the Anti-Corruption Act. The Commission also invited the President of the Anti-Corruption Commission, Mr Drago Kos. In doing so, the President of the Commission presented the Commission's report, focusing on the supervision of the assets of the officials, further highlighted a number of doubts and questions regarding the specific problems identified by the local communities in the enforcement of the statutory irreconcilability of functions. Furthermore, pursuant to Article 25, paragraph 4, of the Anti-Corruption Act, the Commission has also laid down ways to dispose of gifts and to manage the list of gifts and other implementing issues relating to restrictions and obligations on the acceptance of gifts; dealt with business restrictions, integrity plans to be adopted by all national authorities and local authorities, and has therefore prepared and published guidelines for the development of integrity plans. The Commission also adopted, pursuant to Article 37 of the Rules of Procedure of the Anti-Corruption Commission on 2 February 2005, an action plan to implement the resolution on anti-corruption in the Republic of Slovenia. At the end of the presentation submitted by the President of the Commission, the members of the National Assembly had no comments on the report. At the meeting, our Commission, namely the National Assembly, adopted a decision, which reads: "On the basis of the first paragraph of Article 13 of the Anti-Corruption Act, the Commission, under the anti-corruption law, proposes to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration of that report and proposes that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopt the following decision. The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia took note of the report on the work of the Anti-Corruption Commission for the period from 1.10.2004 to 23.5.2005." Dear colleagues and colleagues! This concludes my presentation on behalf of my mother's working body. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u5	Thank you, Mrs. Barbara Žgeiner Tavsh. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mag. Franc Žnidaršič will present the position of the DeSUS Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u6	Honorable President, colleagues and colleagues! In principle, our Group supports any commission dealing with the prevention of corruption, which, of course, we understand the work of the Commission as an independent and independent commission. We have before us the first report of this Commission from October to almost the end of May. It follows from the report that the Commission has followed the functioning laid down in the Act establishing it and that the report also shows what it has done during this period. It turned out that the response of the affected or treated officials who were supposed to report their assets was quite good. It got stuck at local level when it came to secular applications, etc., where there was some kind of resistance due to the demand to broadcast data on their material condition. Some have resisted by abandoning or withdrawing their mandate, some have not given up their data, but the findings do not go to the Commission, but to the legal provisions which have covered such a wide range of people as to fall under direct control in this area. We believe that the Commission has correctly written down its operation at this time, that it has acted in all the directions laid down by law and has done its work in the light of objective conditions and legal restrictions correctly. We find it important that part of the Commission's work aimed at international integration, because it has proved that the Commission is developing its work in the right direction, which has already been established elsewhere outside our borders. There is no doubt that corruption is present in our society. It is right that we have one or another independent body to deal with it. From this point of view, we are adopting a report, the first report of the Commission, which we have before us as correctly as possible, summarized the content, showing the situation in this area, indicating further ways of developing things. With certain changes to the law, more could be expected in the future from such a commission. Our group considers the report to be correct and accepted as such. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u7	Thank you, Mr. Gniedarsich. Mr Rudi Veršnik will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u8	Thank you very much. Greetings to all present. In accordance with Article 13 of the Anti-Corruption Act, the Anti-Corruption Commission is required to report on its work to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia by 31 May of the current year. Since it only formally started work on 1.10.2004, we have before us a report on the work of the Commission for the whole period from the beginning, that is to say, from 1.10.2004 to 23.5.2005. On a proposal from the President of the Republic, the President of the Commission and his deputy were appointed on 20.4.2004 and, on a proposal from the National Assembly and the Government and the Council of Justice, one member was appointed by the Commission, with a total of five members. According to a preliminary opinion of the National Assembly, the Commission adopted the Commission's Rules of Procedure and commenced its work on 1.10.2004. During its period of operation, it adopted 11 rules which it used in its work. On 18 October 2004, it called on all public institutions and bodies at national and local level to provide information on officials or persons who, under the anti-corruption law, are obliged to provide information on their assets and status. By the end of 2004, they had been invited to provide information on their officials. At this stage, there were anomalies of this law, since it did not separate the seeds from the weeds. Reporters in the local community did not understand why municipal councillors who receive a pair of 10,000 tolars a year should be equal to officials who are employed in state administration. Some saints have even returned to their chosen function — the one that could be the most successful in the local community. As a result, protests came from a number of congregations, especially from those who already have such problems with good staff in congregational councils. The law, however, easily releases directors of public enterprises and the former President of the Republic. Is it not a much greater possibility for them to engage in corrupt practices than for municipal councillors in small congregations? After the new year, there was a follow-up of forms and a call for only these to be completed. The forms are designed to require a number of interpretations from the members of the Commission, as well as the fulfilment of unnecessary data and the adaptation of an income decision that could also be obtained from the tax administration of the Republic of Slovenia. Seventy percent of the applications came in the last week before the deadline. Following the expiry of the deadline for the delivery of the completed forms, the Commission set a new deadline on 16 May 2005. Not all officials have fulfilled their obligations after this period. On 23.5., she filed a complaint with 4,962 officials, of which 3,047 were at the local level, 1,064 courts, the prosecution and the prosecution, and 461 at the state level. At the local level, they include mayors, mayors, municipal councilors and directors of cultural institutions and public institutions, which are majority owned by local communities and appointed by the municipal council. These represent 70% of all. Officials at the state level also include Members and other officials in the ministries who have passed their functions and who have received a replacement in April 2005. These are 9%. The third group of officials shall include judges at all levels of the courts, prosecutors and lawyers. This so-called judicial branch represents over 21% of officials. The legal obligation has met almost 95% of all those under the anti-corruption law. At least they were met in the local community or at the local level, about 93%. In its work, the Commission also answers the question of the non-compatibility of functions. They were addressed mainly by local communities. On the basis of Article 25, paragraph 4, of the Anti-Corruption Act, the Commission has laid down a method of making gifts available and managing the list of gifts and other implementing issues relating to the restriction and acceptance obligations of gifts, namely the rules on the way in which gifts are made available to the official. Much work has been done by the Commission with public procurement and the preparation of a list of companies subject to restrictions under Article 28 of the Anti-Corruption Act. The list contains 577 companies, so that the list is not yet complete, so it is difficult for me to imagine normal work in public procurement under so many restrictions. Also, the restriction of less than 20% of the shareholding in the own company has caused some to simply return to function, but the more inventive of course have reduced their share and are operating according to the old system further. In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 28 of the Anti-Corruption Act, the Commission was able to issue its own business permit under public procurement rules. In the administrative procedure, she issued two licences, nine cases were resolved differently in accordance with the applicable legislation. The report does not state how otherwise. The Commission shall cooperate in its work with the National Assembly, the Council of State, the Government and the individual ministries, the municipalities, the courts, the courts, the Court of Auditors, the State Audit Commission and the Commissioner for Access to Public Information. The Commission shall supervise the work of the Anti-Corruption Commission in the National Assembly. So far, she has sent one such report, which was also adopted by the Commission of the National Assembly at its meeting on 14.4. In addition, the Commission forwarded to the Commission on 14.4.2005 a list of the gifts accepted by the members of the Commission. Finally, I will quote the conclusion of the report, which says: "The Commission's experience so far shows that they have laid down laws on the prevention of corruption, in particular in the parts where it refers to the incompatibilities of functions, the restrictions on business and the duty to register assets, on the one hand, to make it more explicit and non-life-friendly, and on the other hand they do not cover all situations where corruption may occur among officials in the Republic of Slovenia." With this conclusion, we fully agree in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u9	Thank you, Mr. Versnick. Mr Dusan Kumer will present the position of the Group of Members of the Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u10	Thank you for your words, presidents, colleagues and colleagues. It is therefore undeniable that today, for the first time, we have before us a comprehensive report from an independent state commission to prevent corruption, which began its work exactly one year ago. It is also undeniable that the content of this report is a synthetic and empirical representation of the tasks performed by the Commission from the plans and measures to prevent corruption, the tasks and plans to address the causes of corruption, the design of integrity plans and the verification of their operation and the supervision of the assets of officials and what else could be found. So the content of this report clearly shows that this work simply cannot be carried out by politicians, especially us who sit as Members and Members of this National Assembly. The third fact is that the Republic of Slovenia has finally received a body that has established control over all officials in the Republic of Slovenia. In short, there is an obvious difference between the report prepared over the past 12 years by the parliamentary commission, composed of Members and Members of Parliament, and the reports of the independent State Commission, made up of professionally qualified members and members of the Commission. And not only is there an obvious difference in the content of the reports, it is also an obvious difference in efficiency. This is a 12-year completely ineffective work of a similar parliamentary commission. This, last but not least, confirms the conclusion of the current Commission that the provisions of the previous provision of the Act on the non-compatibility of performing a public function by virtue of a gainful activity similar to those of the third and fourth chapters of the current law have not been implemented at all. The Commission also reached this conclusion on the basis of the almost absolute ignorance of officials, of local gold, of their obligations under this law. If the law had been implemented in the past 12 years, in practice, most problems would have been eliminated, interpretations would probably have been eliminated. Therefore, in the Socialist Group of Members, it seems paradoxical to us that those political actors who have been a major part of their rhetoric and political energy during the period of opposition have been used to repeat their judgment in a daily manner are dirty, corrupt, corrupt, only we are not like that, even with WD 40, even in these parliamentary benches they have tried to carry out the heavy and rusty screws of corruption and corruption. And in this way they have gained the legitimate and legitimate way of trusting people with the hope of these same people, that they are the ones who will now and forever end these atrocities, called theft, corruption, customerism and so on. But look at the fragment! It is these actors that are today shutting down, dismantling institutions that are supposed to prevent and disable exactly what they have talked about in the past. Therefore, today, when we consider the report of the Independent Anti-Corruption Commission, it would be fair, politically wise and correct for the endorsers of the current independent commission to tell what is wrong with its work, rather than summarizing the content of the activities and tasks that this Commission has carried out. Did she act unlawfully, or did she not fully comply with the legal requirements, or was she inactive, inactive, or was there something else behind that that most of us do not know and that is why it is necessary to abolish? The position of the Social Democrats Group is that the Commission has done its work well, properly, within the scope of the options and capabilities given. The report also rightly drew the Commission's attention to some of the bad solutions to the legislation in force and also proposed solutions. Experience so far has shown that the provisions of the applicable law, in particular in the parts where functions are referred to as non-compatibilities, on the one hand, restrictions on business and the obligation to report assets are distinctly and non-lifely, and on the other hand do not cover situations where corruption and corruption may occur between officials. Among the most important problems that need to be addressed in the future with changes to the law, it is certainly worth mentioning, as the Commission has also stated, a circle of legally bound persons from the concept of a formal conflict of interest. We, in the Group of Social Democrats, support these proposals after amending and supplementing the legislation. And it is because of the abundance of these tasks that we believe that no parliamentary commission can and cannot carry out such scope and content of the work. At the same time, any parliamentary commission, which is 100% political party-based, cannot in any way get rid of and relieve party and political pressure. Politicians, especially us, colleagues and colleagues, cannot prevent corruption as a social evil, even because we are on the list of potential members of these actions in the eyes of citizens at the top of the scale of value. The same applies to the executive power, which is always extended by the time limit of each political majority in Parliament. And that is why such activity and work can perform exclusively independently and with the appropriate support and competences of such an independent body. As we know, in our country, following the current regulation of the crime detection and investigation function, it is systematically charged to the police as a body within the Ministry of the Interior. Therefore, commissions with such police powers do not need such a commission. It is also important to note from the report that citizens and citizens trust an independent commission, as evidenced by the large number of reports of possible corruption. This year, the Commission received a higher number of applications than any other body in the country. In doing so, it is necessary to contradict the indications and the valuations that notifiers do not know the powers of the Commission, because it is the opposite. They know much better, and more importantly, they trust her much more than other authorities in the country. Therefore, it is, of course, impossible for the Commission, as an independent state authority, to have on the one hand such a high level of confidence of citizens and citizens when it receives recognition for its work abroad, and on the other hand does not have the support of the institutions of the state. This just confirms that the Commission and its work are assessed and evaluated exclusively through the glasses of the current political majority and their interests. More! He even shuts it down! And this not only by amending legislation, but - military and police analysts would say - also by modern methods of pressure and discredit. Large workload and insufficient financial support or any willingness to participate in some government institutions that should do so and so on. Therefore, in the Socialist Group of Members, we attach to the assessment that the most critical points currently in reducing corruption are certainly the poor quality of detection and prosecution of corruption and the predominant absence of ethical standards in the public sector. And one of these most important ethical standards, which is abolished by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia with the help of the majority in this National Assembly, is the independence of such an anti-corruption commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u11	Thank you, Mr. Kumer. Mr Drago Koren will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Good afternoon to all of you in this Chamber. We have before us a report on the work of the Anti-Corruption Commission for the period from 1.10.2004 to 23.5.2005. In the New Slovenia Group of Members - The Christian People's Party, we reviewed the report with great interest because we were just curious about what the Commission was doing during this period. We wondered what the results of her work were or how much corruption had been reduced as a result of the commission’s work. I have to admit, after studying the report, I'd be a little disappointed. It is clear from point two of the State Affairs how the Commission dealt with itself, by adopting its rules - otherwise it is quite understandable, because it is the beginning of the work of the Commission. In the third item, Control over the property status of the officials, the commission will inform us of the collection of data on a flat-rate basis. It tells us that it has found a great degree of misunderstanding of the provisions of the law on the prevention of corruption by institutions. At home, I would say that the Commission has found that state and municipal authorities are stupid and that the Commission has had to explain and explain very much to them during a given period, especially to local authorities. From the analysis of accepted applications, we see the number and percentage of officials at levels and the number of undeclared applications. I'm surprised the Commission didn't think of anything to say that there are only 9% of those at the state level, and at local level there are 70% of them. In the fourth chapter, we learn that the Commission has written 10 responses or explained to local communities on the issue of incompatibility. There is nothing special written in the section of the Limitation on Gifts. We find that the Commission has laid down the means of making gifts available and keeping the list of gifts and other implementing issues relating to the limitations and obligations of receiving gifts. We also learn that the conduct of the management of a police unit participating in the frequency paid by companies that provide different services for the purposes of this police unit is illegal and corresponds to the definition of corruption. Let me now touch the operating restrictions chapter. In this part of the report, a longer contribution is made to the clarifications sent by the Commission to various authorities and has drawn up a list of companies subject to restrictions on the business of contracting entities operating under public procurement rules. The report also shows how many suspected acts of corruption have been reported and what the Commission has done with these reports. Obviously, however, I was mistakenly expecting information as to how many suspected acts of corruption the Commission itself had found. However, it is a very extensive and detailed chapter 13 - Financial and human resources issues. He's very specific about how many people and money we'd need for a normal job. I was a little shocked by the information that there are currently five officials and only five officials. That means every official has his own official. In conclusion, the Commission noted that the Commission's experience so far shows that the anti-corruption legislation has been laid down, in particular in the parts where it refers to the incompatibility of functions, the restrictions on business and the duty to declare property on the one hand, is clearly and non-lifely, and on the other hand do not cover all situations where corruption may occur between officials in the Republic of Slovenia. With this Commission's conclusion, we fully agree with the New Slovenia Group - the Christian People's Party. Especially when it comes to local officials, but more proposals for solutions would be expected from the Commission, more proposals for a change to a non-life law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u13	Thank you, Mr. Root. Mr Franz Kangler will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! We have studied with great interest the report that we have today under consideration. With all the responsibility and seriousness in the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group, we would also like to have an independent commission in Slovenia that works according to the state-of-the-art modern, ethical, parliamentary and other standards, particularly democratic standards. We can find out from the report that the report is correctly written in substance, but this report deals only with itself or its committee from the beginning to the date of reporting. The report can show that they are writing to us what corruption is, who is subject to corruption, what corruption and customerism are, as the President himself has introduced us, parliamentarians. The report also sets out which rules and regulations have already been adopted by the Commission. The report also sets out what acts and decisions the Government has adopted, as regards the financing of the Commission, and what are the financial problems. And the report also states how many of those obliged to report to the Commission in writing were 4962 mandatory citizens or citizens of the Republic of Slovenia who were obliged to report on the Commission's assets, and we find that there were 4711 of them who responded and their obligation under the law to do so. It is interesting, however, when we find and analyse this report, that 165 applications have been sent and forwarded to the said committee. Of these 165 applications, 84 were evaluated, only 50 applications from 165 were forwarded to other bodies: either the Attorney General's Office, the police, the Supreme Court and some other institutions. We are interested, however, in what and how they came up with 50 withdrawn applications and what about those 115 applications that remained on the committee or how and how the Commission assessed only 84 applications since 165. Did politics have to do with such or other influences? And it is probably not up to me to exhale in this particular moment of individuality in this Chamber, because even when I am no longer speaking on behalf of the Group of Members, I will give my opinion with some important information from the past, which those of us who have been any members of the investigative groups still have, and we have a view, and we can speak with all responsibility and seriousness and say whether some individuals or commissions are independent or dependent on politics. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that such a commission and the chairman of the Commission depends on policy if it is so unilaterally set by policy. In the previous term, the Slovenian People's Party was in coalition. We do not deny this, but in some appointments, not only with President Kos, we have had doubts, for principle reasons, and we have been looking for broad support from both the coalition and the opposition. We think it's right. Of course, there are many times when individual members of Parliament are involved in such or other media affairs, that the individual commission and other state authorities react only to some, but not to all those where it is absolutely necessary. Thus, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we accept this report, as I initially said that I hope that the President will provide us with an additional explanation of why the derogations between 165 applications assessed 84 have been communicated only 50. And it would not bother us personally if these applications or these derogations were also mentioned in one way or another in such a report that we are considering in Parliament. After all, it would be right that we are only aware of the content that the Commission is dealing with.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u15	Thank you, Mr. Kangler. Mr Srečko Friend will present the position of the Slovenian National Party Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! The Anti-Corruption Commission has properly and consistently written a report on its work, which also expresses the actual work of this Commission. However, some facts need to be pointed out. The first fact is that the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia issued a decision on 27.10.2005 stating that the first, fourth, fifth, sixth paragraph of Article 28 and the first paragraph of Article 30 of the Anti-Corruption Act, [[Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia, No. 2/04]] contrary to the Constitution. Therefore, it is more than clear that we are considering in essence a report from a commission acting under illegal principles or, if this decision applies, then it must be taken into account. In fact, this report is not so real if we take the facts mentioned in it - and those who have read it can see it - that only problems that concern the Commission alone are addressed. If we walk through the chapters, we can quickly find out that they are dealing with fundamental issues, whether the farm managed by the official is a business belonging to an economic activity, then, as I have already said, they are dealing with their own problems, in fact financial ones, and, finally, the requests to the Minister are addressed [[The report describes]] and dry-cleaning the reports that we had to file. Of course, it costs everything. This costs taxpayers 1,000 million dollars a year. 1,000 million jobs are 150 jobs, and given the multi-application factor, it is 450 people who could thus ensure their existence. We are not opposed to the fact that the Commission would not be and that it would stop the control of corruption, but we are in favour of establishing a commission that will have far greater powers than this Commission has. This Commission has no essential powers, as has already been said and seen in the report, cannot participate in forecasting procedures, cannot influence research, cannot file criminal complaints, cannot be involved in preventing actual corruption. On a principled level, having a commission that costs so much money, I do not think that taxpayers are justified and we cannot justify this if we take into account the fact that we have another commission that is also dealing with such a problem. I would like to highlight some other facts that are very fresh, more in the form of a question. Is it triggered - because it is not apparent from the report - with regard to the broadcasting of part of the Italian company in Trojan any proceedings by the Commission? We know that Slovenian companies later corrected the errors of the Italian contractor. And last but not least, in this connection, a very fresh matter that was published in the daily newspaper days ago - whether it was launched now that the Republic Audit Commission has taken away the work of four Slovenian companies on the recommendation of the European Community [[And this job is likely to be obtained by an Austrian firm]] What kind of procedure? Is there now any thought that this could be a corrupt activity? And last but not least, if we are essentially going to have a real referendum in this area, which will cost SIT 700 million, or if there is no doubt that this can be ordered, even though we see that this is contrary to a constitutional decision of a court which makes it clear that the Commission has essentially acted in violation of constitutional laws. Therefore, if we look at the report on the work of the Anti-Corruption Commission, we can find that, while the facts regarding the limitations of gifts are well established, when we restrict business, that there is also a very correct chapter on the integration plan, on the implementation of the resolution on the prevention of corruption in the Republic of Slovenia, on the reporting of corruption are only principled, it is not possible to see where it has landed in essence 34 applications, whether criminal procedures are also introduced for these applications, on the cooperation of the Commission at other national and local levels and on international levels is also correctly described and, in fact, what is most disturbing and what will be in the eyes, are excluded from all these controls by the directors of public institutions, which, in fact, have the possibility of maximum corruption. Therefore, it would also be necessary to amend the rules of operation of this Commission and, in essence, to give any commission the opportunity already to be more effective and actually more successful so as not to have such a principled and dry report as we have before us today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u17	Thank you, Mr. Friend. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members on the report and the proposal for a decision. Mr. Miran Potch has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, colleagues and colleagues. Today we are considering for the first time a report on the work of the anti-corruption commission on the basis of the law that came into force in early 2004. The report shall be prepared correctly, in accordance with the law and in accordance with the content and tasks of the Commission. It is prepared systematically after all important parts, showing how the Commission has formed itself, how it has prepared the necessary acts, so that it can start working and how it has consistently acted in accordance with the law. I say consistently, according to the law also acted. All other talk about what you should or shouldn't do would be illegal. If you were to detect crimes on your own, it would be illegal. If it were not for itself to verify the property situation of municipal officials, even though it had at the same time pointed out that the law might not be the best in law, we have witnessed it on a mandate-holder committee, it was necessary to do so as long as the law was in force and until it was assessed by the Constitutional Court that certain provisions were constitutionally disputed. Therefore, I do not think that the legality of her conduct, the consistency of her conduct under the law can be seen by anyone. The same applies to the issue of funds. Today it's about a billion, again. Let us be correct and say how annual the use of these funds is. The annual use of these funds was estimated at approximately the Commission's report. 260 million, a plan prepared and coordinated with the Ministry of Finance. 200 million, most of which are true, cca. 80% of the resources required for salaries, but of this for the salaries of the three most controversial officials, only cca. 30 million a year. And this is the savings that can possibly be discussed when the commission is closed if we want to be correct, not to talk about the billions that are considered necessary for the entire term of office of the Commission as a possible necessary assessment and costs. But what I want to say is something else. The report, which was accepted by the competent parent working body for the knowledge and information of our members in this working body even without any criticism, points to a situation. I would understand and consider it correct and useful to draw attention to all the different views we have with regard to the work of the Commission. If the report were to assess whether the Commission is doing good or doing wrong, whether it is working lawfully or illegally, or whether the work of the Commission is presented substantially differently than it would actually be from the law itself and on this basis assess whether we need such a commission or not, or whether it may be necessary to supplement the law in order to obtain a commission as we imagine. This would be a logical arrangement or a sequence of events, and I think that would also be in line with the serious part of the government, this national assembly and also the state. We went the other way. Before we even knew what this commission was really doing, and this has proved to be: in the context of the debate so far, we have proposed its abolition. Someone tell me that this wrong order does not come from anything but from the work of the commission. I will not automatically qualify, from anything else before, but certainly from everything else before: to think of the claim, the political interests and the like, but certainly not from the objective part of the Commission, because otherwise, in this report, we should tell the parental labour body what was wrong, in order to possibly have to abolish such a commission. I think that we have been doing things in the wrong order, that it is not even wise, that it is not even in accordance with the principles of the rule of law and that the ruling coalition, and otherwise, must resist such a way. We have reached, on my proposal, following the President's decision that the report has been placed on the agenda at least before and if we are to discuss the law in the third reading. First, it was suggested that we abolish the commission first and then discuss its report, which would be even more strange if I did not say another word, a decision. It just points to the system of our work. If this ruling coalition, together with the leadership of the National Assembly, decides to do so, then everything shall be carried out in such a way that it is so made, whether it has a logic or not - appropriate rules are already found to interpret it that way. But I think we should do the opposite, because no one will convince me that the mere fact of the change of power has changed all the circumstances that have created the Commission. That it has changed circumstances in the sense that it is still the only real and right thing to do with anti-corruption policy is a self-sustaining, independent expert commission with special status in that country, not a parliamentary commission. I know, fellows and colleagues, you will probably tell me that I do not respect Parliament, that I do not respect my work, that we are a house, that we are directly elected. All of this is true and all of this I very much respect, but you will never hear me, who also have some formal education and experience, hear me say something else, that I am in the final context of this national political assembly, chosen in direct elections, representative of all people, trying to please the interests, views, proposals of many groups, but I am not an expert at the end. We have experts in the government, we have experts in the jobs, we have experts elsewhere - I answer politically. If I were to answer as an expert, I would sleep much worse than I am now, because of all that we do in this National Assembly and what we accept. But I mean, we are always politicians, and we also have our own way of choosing and our own way of responsibility. This business, and this work, as in most other countries, should be carried out by an independent, independent expert commission. Another time. This moment no one has ever convinced me that with the change of power alone, the new government has become an unrealistic thing that we have all accepted before, and especially the opposition of that time has claimed the most - that corruption is the most likely place where there is the most money and the most power. This is done in the government, in the competent ministries, through public procurement, through concrete legislative decisions, including through the system of sale of shares in various companies and so on. And nobody's convinced me about it just because it's another president or other authority, suddenly that danger is gone. I don't believe it, ladies and gentlemen, I don't believe it, and you're not going to convince anyone, except maybe just really, I would say, the narrowest circle of my political advocates. And thirdly, no one has ever convinced me that it would be wise for the tasks of the repressive authorities to be spoken of in a broader sense, and justice, the police, the prosecution, the courts to give these tasks or part of those tasks to the Commission. Why not? Because we should necessarily do them worse than specialised bodies, because otherwise we should have so many specialised people on the committee dealing with this issue, so we have, thank God, not always successfully enough, just there to make an effort, these repressive authorities, to do these things, so that all the reasons for the Commission's existence are the same as they were a year and a half ago or two years ago when we accepted the Commission. There is no doubt that there is no reason, through the Commission's report, to not only adopt the report, but to determine whether they need any changes to the Commission's own legislation and not to abolish it. I don't expect any understanding in the coalition of my claims. But I will say that I will be terribly happy if, apart from Flossules, fictional claims, half-truths, lies, I hear another clever argument against forming a commission in a way that we think will be smart, but we will keep its work if we want to work against corruption in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u19	Thank you, Mr. Run. Mr. Drago Koren has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u20	Thank you so much for saying that. It's a good day to everyone again. I will return to the report itself, to a specific report. I estimate that it is correct, it says that everything that the Commission has done during this period of time has been in it, but it is true that this period is not yet a short time period. But I actually expected in this report a little more concrete content on the prevention of corruption and the concrete results that this Commission has made in this area. I ask once again: how much corruption is now less due to the work of this commission in Slovenia. How much less corruption is there in this year or how much corruption has this commission discovered? I don't blame the commission here. I think we all find the original sin of this today, which is in the very law that I do not think is good enough to change. Here I would expect more initiative from the Commission. Here I would expect the Commission to come to Parliament immediately after these findings with a proposal to amend the law, with new proposals to improve the work of this Commission. But that didn't happen. In fact, the Commission does not have any essential powers and powers in my opinion that it could reduce and detect corruption by its work. I'm going to touch on this property report, these forms that the commission sent us. I wonder why the Commission has not already decided this year to provide this in digital form, because I believe that this would greatly facilitate the work of the Commission, the collection of this data. The other thing that seems silly to me, for example, for officials, farmers, we know what a land cadaster is like, how many plots does one owner have, that he had to list individual plots, that for a few pages it was necessary. Most of the time, there was no real rationalisation here. It seems very important to me that the Commission reacts to the fact that municipal councilors are classified as officials. In these small congregations, we know that this is legal jurisdiction, but I would expect the Commission to react in this sense to propose a change of law, that these saints, who are constantly doing their work, should be so busy with this declaration of their property. I'm going to stop at these adulterous gifts that we can't or can't accept. I'm going to give you an example from my former job, because I find it very funny. We are in 2004, working on the Geodetics Board, we have never received anything from the customers, much less any insults, insults or anything like that, and then we received a notice that we have to put on notice that gifts worth over 15,000 should not be accepted. I must say, we have gladly hung this notice in a prominent place, but what we have done with it. Maybe some client had a bad conscience that she didn't bring us anything. Let me finish this thinking mostly this way. So we need one billion funds for one term. Would it not be wise for these funds to be allocated to a police department that would also accept anonymous, say, applications? Would you like to go to the D.A. and the D.A.'s office? Maybe especially to the judiciary, because we know how the judiciary works. Even if we bring the case to the prosecutor's office, maybe even to the court if the court doesn't work properly, none of this is going to happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u21	Thank you, Mr. Root. Mr. Janc Kristian has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Kos! Colleagues and colleagues! In the report we received from the parliamentarians, I think it is properly prepared, well. I don't have any substantive comments on it either, I read it, it's correct, I didn't think I had anything that I could see that it wasn't well prepared or anything. As for the forms that I had to fill out as an official, the mayor and the Member of Parliament, and that I also completed within the time limit, as instructed, in due time, I had no problem with this. Some of them may have had more, but I didn't. The second praise goes also to Mr Kos that he responded relatively quickly to our invitation, came to Sevnica and with my municipal councilors and entrepreneurs also had a corrective interview in accordance with the law, which is just the way it is, and received certain additional explanations. I thank him here, too, from this town. I must say that I was among the first to be here in this National Assembly when I addressed the question to Mr Sturm, Minister of Justice. It was some nonsense in this law about the congregational saints. I received a particularly silent and vague answer that all this was fine, that it was good and so forth I was with that answer then as the mayor disappointed and I could not be satisfied. [[..]] A different picture of Slovenian municipalities took place next to this story. Officials, congregational saints, have often retreated and, as a rule, those good saints who get to know the economy, which is very important that this spirit was lost inside among the congregation’s saints. Sadly, so did our congregation. Three excellent saints from various political options we lost in this mandate, which I regret to say today, but unfortunately entrepreneurship has weighed, which I thought was logical, because this is bread, which is the number of employees in this company and they have left the municipal species and the rest of the entrepreneurial waters. Here I think it was wrong with this model angle, perhaps as mayor and Member I expected a slightly more active role of this commission to see, however, that this nonsense, which has arisen that the mayor of one Kungota, I do not know what, I apologize, municipal councilor, what could it affect him to not know in Maribor, in Ljubljana to perform in public procurement and what influence he has as an official in some positive sense of obtaining a particular job. I believe that this may be a minor influence in my own congregation. ;orda is not, if not already in its own congregation, hygienic for an entrepreneur to appear on a public invitation to tender. In other Slovene municipalities, however, as a municipal councillor, in my profound belief, he has absolutely no influence as an entrepreneur to perform in this. Here I would expect a greater active role of this commission, however, to warn the government, the national assembly or anyone else in order to eliminate this story in this context, but perhaps only to the municipalities where it comes from, but not to other Slovene municipalities. This is what I think is the last mistake I say here, and of course I regret not only the saints from our congregation, from all the Slovene municipalities who have stepped out of this mandate and the question is whether they will ever return to these municipal lists as entrepreneurs again. It is a pity for municipal councils, local communities and the country as well. Otherwise, I think that this story, which was what it was, and I have to say here from this point of view that the relationship that I had as mayor to this commission and to this story that I have no reservations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u23	Thank you, Mr. Janz. Mr. Bojan Kontic has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Hello, representative of the Anti-Corruption Commission, colleague and colleague! It is clear from the Commission's report that the Commission has seized itself and that more powers should be added by law to this same commission rather than abolishing it. That's my opinion. However, since usually the most important things are hidden in detail, I would still like to ask in the opinion of one particular case. On 4 May this year, the Mayor of Velenje asked the anti-corruption commission for an opinion on a matter which I can describe very briefly. On the basis of two selected offers, the independent entrepreneur did a job for which he received payment or payment of almost 5.7 million Slovenian tolars, which is about 1 million more than the contract. Thus, from the most favourable provider as an operator, which in the final calculation exceeded the value offered by the unchosen tenderer, it was therefore not the cheapest. More than that, it is questionable that the work was carried out by an independent entrepreneur, who is at the same time a person or a president of the body who was the contracting authority. From the report and your response to the mayor, it is clear that you have dropped the case because of the suspicion of criminal service to the administration of the criminal police or the general police administration. I wonder if you've received any response from the police at this time. And two, which is of particular interest to me. I know that the anti-corruption law was not in force at the time when this happened. If the law were then in force, would this particular case, in your opinion, be a corrupt act? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u25	Thank you, Mr. Kontic. Mrs. Majda Potter has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u26	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members, distinguished President of the Commission! I consider the first report of the Anti-Corruption Commission to be an opportunity to seriously consider whether all that is enshrined in the law, as well as in the resolution on the prevention of corruption, is such a way that we can expect good results. But the good result for me is what was written there and what we were talking about. In fact, to reduce corruption and to reduce or prevent corruption with all reported or reported cases, and to employ those authorities involved. It would be difficult to use them better for something else, but it is difficult to point out in these circumstances that the report states that, in fact, if the Commission wanted to do what the law provides, it would need even more resources and more employees. It is also difficult to overlook that this report, in addition to all that my fellow Members have already mentioned, makes clear in chapter 15 what it would actually be good to change the law in order for the Commission to act even better in order to achieve better results. But I cannot agree with those who feel that it is possible to delegate the commission's tasks to a repressive body, for example, to the police, because I will only have some experience. [[End warning sign]] from other activities assisted. See, victims of violence can turn to official institutions, but significantly more reports are received by anonymous phones, SOS phones and other non-governmental organizations because they need to be supported by independent institutions that help [[redeal character to end]] People at times when they feel that something in society needs to be done to make weaknesses that are even marked by law [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u27	Mrs. Potrata [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u28	Like weaknesses, go away. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u29	Thank you. Mr. Lucky Friend, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. President. As has already been said, only in a few segments would I like to touch this report. This time it's just my personal opinion. See, resounding corruption has taken place in the Slovenian space, and as many as a few thousand people have remained on the road because of this. Unfortunately, the 12-year-old authorities didn't want to hear it. Neither for the Red Cross affair, nor for the Viator-Vector, nor for the Zbilsky grove, nor for Triglav. All these actors are free today, and there are many others, and I'm not going to list them all because it would be too dry. The loss in the Slovenian economy is quite a few hundred billion. This money was poured into the private pockets of individuals, people were deprived of everything, no constitutional right to work, they were in the institution today, or they had to know something else. If this Commission were set up under the previous authority with a serious purpose, in this context, so that it could really influence these matters, as I know, and I am sure that it could and could be done, then today we would probably have one of these actors already convicted or in prison. Nothing happened in this area. Nothing. New affairs are intertwined, new areas open up corrupt, very corrupt. We're in the gift-taking report. Nonsense. The Commission is dealing with its own existential problem of how to provide administrative technical conditions for work, staffing needs and the necessary money. That's bullshit, too. If it were to be serious, then the State should ensure that all of this is already available to the Commission today and that it acts transparently in the room with the judiciary, together with the law enforcement authorities, together with the Court of Auditors and, in fact, also with political actors. As I once said, it would be better for the lions to look at the right hand and vice versa, rather than having a single-colored commission, which is simply because of the fact that we wrote a report on whether or not we gave our policy a statement about the property situation, and other, of course, mandatory persons in Slovenia. The biggest drawback is that, in fact, in public institutions, I have stressed this earlier, and once again, in public institutions whose founders are municipalities, we would not have actual control. The directors of these public institutions do not fall under this obligation. And this is where the biggest corruption happens, right here, the biggest financial flows flow into private pockets. And there's a lot of things wrong with public calls. This takes into account semi-friendly, friendly, related relationships, and nobody reacts. They're being submitted. [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] I'm sorry. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u31	Thank you. Happy Hwauc has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It is also a nice greeting to the President of the Commission who has prepared a report for which my personal opinion is that it is well prepared, according to some logic, systematically and correctly, as regards the technical approach. Of course, it is not a report for itself, but in fact, at least in my opinion, the reports are written to learn more about the functioning of this body or the institution, more about the situation at the beginning of the reporting period and the situation at the end. But still, once again, I think the report is properly prepared. I am also convinced that the Commission has been active during this one-year period to act legally, in accordance with the framework laid down by the law. The same is true for the President, who has also demonstrated and proved this activity several times. However, I would still have some opinions or comments on the contents of the report itself. It is clear, given that the Commission only started work last year, that considerable attention is being paid to the constitution itself and the necessary activities to enable the Commission to act. Another such important activity, which is given quite a bit of space in the report, is the collection of data on these officials. Here I am disturbed by the fact that the Commission has collected data, most of which are publicly available, in such or other bases, or that they or could be directly available to the Commission, and all of us officials had to collect this information in one way or another. The next thing that bothers me in analysing this data is that it's too busy dealing with who gave the data, who didn't give it up, how many percent and so on. We do not know anything from this analysis about the content of this data. If we wanted to systematically monitor developments in this area, the next report would compare what was, for example, today or when this report was completed with another period. The Commission also points out that it has answered questions about some specific problems, and I think it cites ten specific cases. I agree that they have probably made an effort in all of these ten specific cases, but all of the debtors were, according to the data listed in this report, 4,962, so that this is a small percentage of those involved and also received these answers. As one of the achievements, the Commission also refers to the principled opinion that [[I'll try to read]] "doctors who carry out research in public institutions in addition to service obligations in the service premises, by means of means of service during service periods" - and this is a achievement that, in the opinion of this Commission, such conduct corresponds to the definition of corruption. For such findings, I don't think we need a commission like that. Chapter 8 speaks of an action plan for the implementation of the resolution on anti-corruption. Here I would expect more specific information on what is being achieved from this resolution or from this action plan. The dry spell of some points, I think for someone so serious, the detailed report is too small. Also in Chapter 9, where the Commission states that it has accepted 165 applications, 50 have withdrawn them to the competent authorities. I would like to know how many such cases have been detected by the Commission itself on the basis of the data it collects, on the basis of the data available to it. In doing so, I fully agree with the question which has already been raised, on the basis of which the criteria this Commission has found to be 50 of those who must move forward, the other 100 and several other cases do not meet these conditions. If I round up my opinion on this to the reports. I would like, firstly, to assess a situation in the area of corruption or prevention taken over by this Commission, according to the report, what is the extent to which the hotspots of this corruption, the situation in the field of legislation, formal, informal links allowing corruption. Second. I would like to see concrete measures taken by the Anti-Corruption Commission during this period under consideration and, finally, what are the concrete results, how much less corruption has been reduced, how many cases have been detected, identified, what are the weights, what nature and so on. I know that this can be a little more difficult to monitor in such cases because it is difficult to get everything into some numbers, but some criteria need to be prepared so that we can also compare efficiency to determine whether the Commission is achieving some of its objectives, where there are weaknesses, what needs to be changed and so on. I would also like to discuss some of the indications that, with these changes ahead of us, we want to get a political commission or a political body that will keep an eye on corruption, that everything was professional, independent, apolitical and so on. I will not say that this existing commission is political, but look, the President, the Vice-President and one member has appointed a national assembly, which is political, in the former, former composition. One member is appointed by the government or appointed, the government was also political, the former, only one member has been appointed by the judiciary, and four are said to be strictly political, called by political authorities. It would be difficult to say, however, that such a commission, which was appointed by the previous political set, under the law adopted by the previous political set, is completely apolitical, completely purely professional and independent. Very hard. In the previous debate, I have also heard that we had this Commission for 12 years before we had an ineffective commission. I wonder why we had an inefficient commission for 12 years, during the period when the biggest changes were in Slovenia: privatisation, transition and so on. But when these procedures were completed, then we got a "caca", it is said, a new commission, which will now, when all of this is finished, settled, everything under the roof, independent, professional and will in the future monitor the situation in this area. And one more thing. When we talk about the Commission, we must also count on some of the costs that arise in this regard. I looked, the report shows that during the period from 1 to half of April this year, some over 65 million costs were incurred only for the Commission's salaries. If we calculate this, with five officers and five employees, this is about 1 million on an annual basis. I think that this is not such a small cost, and also, as far as this is concerned, it is necessary to bear in mind also the effects, on the one hand, and the costs, on the other hand. Not that we're just leaving, we're gonna prevent corruption, and it's gonna cost as much as it wants. This aspect, too, I think is important, and this new arrangement, which is envisaged, will surely be cheaper for the country. Otherwise, I say once again that the report in technical terms is correct and, as far as I am concerned, I will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u33	Thank you, Mr. Hwauc. Mr. Dimitriy Kovacich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u34	Thank you very much. I'd like to say one correction first. All members of the Commission were appointed by the National Assembly, not only the President and the Deputy, but also the others. However, the other was not the President of the Republic, but the proposers were both the government and the Council of Justice. However, this indicates the fact that it went absolutely to the political body, because it was elected by the highest political authority in the country. If we are talking about the independence and apolitical nature of this Commission, then of course we must also ask ourselves whether the condition for the appointment of members of this Commission has been met. Article 5 of the Anti-Corruption Act makes it very clear that persons who are named must be worthy of public confidence. And as we know, the National Assembly has appointed these people in what they call "valued public trust" by opposing them by a large part of the parliamentary groups. Therefore, they did not consider that the members of this commission were worthy of public confidence unless you consider that the public who had confidence was the only one represented by you, who were then in the coalition and you had a majority in this national assembly. Today's report is based on still valid law, regardless of the fact that this law is found in some part by the Constitutional Court to be inconsistent with the Constitution. However, the report is based on this law and this report, in my opinion, clearly shows the correct thinking of all those who think that the existing anti-corruption law is necessary to replace it with a law that will be more realistic and will prescribe what can actually be achieved, and will not contain and mislead people if it is an anti-corruption body that prevents corruption. Because I think it's an illusion that some people like to blind people so much. Under the Anti-Corruption Act, the current Commission, whose report we are considering today, has no power to fight corruption. That this has jurisdiction, however, could be expected from the title itself, from the name itself, both the law and the anti-corruption commission, but that is not the case in fact according to the provisions of the law. With regard to corruption, the law gives the Commission only one task: to implement the resolution on preventing corruption in the field of identification and addressing the causes of corruption. This is specifically explicitly written. This task is, in my opinion, a theoretical work that is linked to the identification of the causes of corruption in society, and also to the theoretical thinking and search for solutions that would eliminate the causes of corruption. So this is about law-based corruption based on the competence of the Commission and nothing else. The report, however, identifies specific chapter nine as a specific task of identifying corruption practices and, in this regard, also specific activities in terms of information collection and documentation. What do you mean? Whether it is also meant here what is not written in the report, but has recently been told by the President of this Commission that the Commission or perhaps only the President of this Commission has a corrupt network in the country. Is that what this means? That's a little unusual. How did this commission come to this corruption network? Or is it in a similar way to that of a journalist named Ranc in the past when he was illegally bugged? How did the commission come to this corrupt network? Why not, if she already had the information, why don't they have the prosecution and the police, who are competent to find out and get everything that helps them fight corruption? Because they're responsible for it. I certainly think that this is a violation of the powers that the Commission has under the law, because despite the fact that the report states that the Commission does not have investigative powers, it is also conducting investigations that are about collecting information and documentation on possible corruption, as well as inviting officials to interview before the Commission in this regard. So these are investigative actions. And the reports themselves say that the commission has no investigative actions, but at the same time it describes them. Therefore, it carries out what is the task of the competent law enforcement authorities, the police, the prosecutions, or, in any event, the report shows that the Commission has waived the competent institutions in these cases, but after having already carried out certain investigations, even though this would be the task of the authorities to whom the cases depart. Otherwise, it is appropriate that the Commission withdraws information on suspected corruption to the authorities if it learns about such practices in its work. This is for actions that could constitute corruption. But it is also the responsibility of all other state authorities, as well as individuals who, in their work, find out about possible corruption, are obliged to report it to the police and the prosecution, who are the authorities responsible for such persecution. Thus, in my view, this type of investigation, referred to in chapter 9, is contrary to the powers prescribed in the law. In addition to having no powers, the Commission is not qualified for an effective investigation, but should inform the competent institutions as soon as possible so that they can act as soon as possible. By doing so, when the Commission itself took over part of the investigative tasks of the competent authorities in cases of which the report is concerned, it has consequently prevented and prevented the effective action of the police and the prosecutions, which were only later, when the Commission carried out its own investigations before that period, that is to say, only later did they receive information on alleged corruption. As a result, of course, the later work of these bodies could have been more ineffective than it could have been if they had been informed in time. I also find it very attractive and laudable in the report under point 10.6. where the Commission refers to good cooperation with the State Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Slovenia, with the Commission providing specific professional assistance to the prosecution by the representatives of the commission in the prosecution of the most serious crimes. Any assistance is certainly welcome, but in my opinion it is little barefoot that the Commission has a resounding name from which the uneducated could conclude that this commission is preventing corruption. So, little barefoot, I think, is that this commission is offering assistance to the state prosecutor's office in prosecuting the most serious crimes. Who are the members of this commission so that they are so above all expertise in this field in Slovenia, from where do these people have such superior expertise in this area that they can teach prosecutors how to prosecute the most serious crimes? It also follows from the report that the Commission cannot fully comply with all, with the Commission's statutory tasks and that the Commission is overloaded in its work. Given what I said earlier that the Commission is also dealing with things which it is not competent for, it is no wonder that it is running out of time for what is the specific tasks of this Commission, and this is to determine the potential incompatibility of the public function with a gainful activity: tasks relating to the control of property status, the acceptance of gifts to the public and the restrictions on the business of contracting entities under the public procurement rules. It also seems strange to me that the Commission publishes in its work in the field of local communities only on the website of the municipalities of Slovenia and not on the website of the association of municipalities of Slovenia, which is also an equivalent and representative association of the municipality, such as the community of municipalities. Why split? However, the report on the work of the Anti-Corruption Commission confirms my view so far that the adoption of a new law, which will more clearly lay down the competences of the Commission in the area of identification and control of the incompatibility of functions with gainful activity, is necessary and necessary. Last but not least, the new law also sharpens its obligations in this area. Of course, it removes all the unnecessary provisions, which, in my opinion, represent only a "bluff" and create a false impression in the public that the Commission is fighting corruption, although, as I say, it has not been and cannot be. We must do everything we can to enable those state authorities established in this country to prosecute crime and corruption, the conditions for them to be as effective as possible, but not to blind ourselves to a commission that, by its definition, can be nothing more than a paper tiger and because of its name and the impression that people can get because of that name. But not because of the powers, because of the actual powers enshrined in the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u35	Thank you, Mr. Kovacich. Mr Kramberger, Chernač, Kangler. Mr. Kangler, hurry up. You have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u36	Excuse me for 10 seconds. Thank you for your word. Today we have heard a great deal from some of my fellow Members, mainly from the opposition, when they spoke about the report on the work of the anti-corruption commission and that they want this commission to be an independent commission, useful for strengthening Slovenian democracy and could also mention it. I would like to point out, however, that I agree with the work of the Commission, in a way, and it is right that we have a commission that deals with such phenomena one way or another. There is no democratic country in the world that does not face corruption, clienteleism. At the outset, I will also mention, as a representative of the Slovenian People's Party's Group, that the report that we have here today is intended for ourselves or the Commission. Perhaps we, the Members of the group, would be more interested in some of the data covered in this report: from some circles, from which circles, in what way some individuals are subjected to an act called corruption. Above all, I was struck by the fact that the position that was in the previous mandate, together with the Slovenian People's Party in the coalition, was saying that it was an independent commission. I agree with them that it would be right for us to have an independent commission, but I cannot agree with them that there are people who are independent, and we cannot talk about an independent commission when Mr Kosa has been elected by politicians. And Mr Kos was put there by politicians, the National Assembly, with such or other support, and this is not disputed. The issue is that, in my personal opinion, it is no longer an independent commission, but that commission depends on politics. Therefore, in the past and in the debates I have had, I have repeatedly advocated that such a commission, which is established, should be the head of this committee of people who would have broad support in Parliament if, by law, the Parliament is the one who elects the President, even if it is necessary by a two-thirds majority. I don't know who someone on the other side is laughing at, but nobody can do that to me when I'm talking about independence. And in a way, I can be revoltated or also affected by this, because, honourable fellow Members, I was a member of some investigative committees and I learned a lot and found out. I have here a report, "officially classified, strictly confidential," misuse of police records and data. The report still bears the label "officially secret, strictly confidential". If anyone wants to talk about independence, suggest to the President, I will read some of the sentences from this report so that you can mock yourself and talk about who and how it is independent of politics and who is bound to whom. This report contains some very important data, who, when and how it depends on politics and who suggested and how. In my personal opinion, honourable fellow Members, there is nothing wrong but to say in this place that some of the leaders in this committee are independent of politics. In my personal opinion, no, one way or another. However, I take it, and I will be happy that we will find a suitable opportunity once, regardless of color, irrespective of opposition or coalition, to find such a breadth that we can find people who, in fact, as experts, would be able to drive such things as such commissions. People are like that or different. Some from day to day feel or sense or observe that individuals have a political influence on individuals for one reason or another. And again, I've been a member of a commission, a committee to oversee intelligence services, for nine years. And I am sure that, when we meet again, we will consider a report at our fellow Members, or at one of the following meetings, so that we can talk about these things. And I am very glad that more or less in this committee we are united and notice certain things. And we are not exempt, nor are we parliamentarians, no, not some members or president, or whatever we say, on such or other committees. It is noteworthy, however, that we still have a young democracy, that we are without some democratic principles, which is due to the fact that we do not have a 50- or 40-year tradition in democracy. And one of the reasons was that I decided to support myself some of the procedures in the marriage that we had in the previous months because I felt certain things on my own from individuals, in one way or another, because they acted politically. As far as professionalism is concerned, I'm not going to let that happen in person, some people have references. But I have my concerns, because of the past, I have all the right to do so, and it is also my duty, and the electorates have given me a mandate to do so in this place as well. However, when you have access to a document such as this, it is not just one person, it is a number of people, both left and right, but you will be able to get a sense of who else in this country is apolitical or independent of the current, former or any Slovenian politics, and you will probably speak something different in this place. This document is in my safe, I hope that my safe will not be opened as easily as it opens in the middle of Ljubljana. And he's probably the only one, because some of them have been destroyed, given that I've extended my term with the electorate, and he's staying with me, and he's going to stay in the vault. I would also like to conclude the debate with this.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u37	Thank you, Mr. Kangler. Mr. Rudi Veršnik, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u38	Thank you very much. With regard to the report itself, I have no specific comments. The Commission has certainly worked in accordance with what has been imposed on it, in accordance with their options. Finally, I supported the report as a member of the National Assembly Commission. However, I would like to say the following. The finding of some that the Commission is not political is much of a misdirection and misleading to the public. Every commission is political. We have recently heard that corporate administrations have also been set up politically. I cannot agree that the committee member he appoints, for example, the President of the State, is not political and that the one appointed by the National Assembly is political. I also find it unrealistic to talk about an independent, independent expert committee that will not be political. Let's say finally Bob Bob and admit that all similar commissions were and will be political. I myself, as a member of the National Assembly Commission after the law on prevention, have heard that the Commission collects data, explains the law, collects reports from citizens and reports violations of law enforcement authorities. I submit that we do not need highly qualified personnel to carry out these tasks, but a reputable uncompromised professional leader, but the administration can do the rest. I am sure that the report would be no less extensive, no less bad, and the cost of the Commission's work is certainly significantly lower. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u39	Thank you, Mr. Versnick. The speaker has the floor, Mr Kos.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It was a very big question. I'll try to answer them as quickly as possible. I apologize to those of you in advance because I won't be able to go in detail. As already stated in our report, when we started implementing our marriage, we actually faced the problem that what should have been clear for 12 years was not clear in anything. We have been plowing the ice that should have been in the past 12 years because we have faced problems that should have been resolved long ago. To those honourable Members and Members who asked why the Commission did not react immediately, propose appropriate amendments, I will say the following. When we started working on the first day, we found that there were big flaws, big holes, and big mistakes in the marriage. We were asked what to do. Should we react immediately or should we wait until we have completed the entire acceptance cycle of property registrations in order to determine what all those errors are? We've decided another way. Thus, we have decided to wait until the end, to complete one round of receipts, to identify all errors, shortcomings and then to submit our proposal. And you received our proposal - it was received by all the parliamentary groups - in the form of amendments to the law tabled by the Slovenian National Party. This proposal takes into account all those problems, all those problems, all those proposals that you have been talking about today. Of those, monitoring the property situation. We, for example, expelled municipal saints from this. All those who talk about operating restrictions, if our proposal were followed, then there would be no list anymore. The current proposal, or proposal, still foresees the existence of a list, still foresees the existence of various such and different operating restrictions that are non-lifelike. We've gone one step further and we've cleared all the lists. Among other things, we have proposed, as Mr Kangler said, that the members of this Commission would be decided by a national assembly with a two-thirds majority. Some of the proposals in our amendments have been adopted, some have not been. But all the time, we faced the problem of knowing that we were doing something that was very sad, lifeless. After all, it's also in our report. But the commission had to follow the law, the commission had to do what the law said. It would be very strange to see the Commission making a public statement, in addition to those words that we have been repeating all the time in public and at all the meetings that we have been attending, that the law we are implementing is stupid and unreal. We have done what the law has laid down, and we have been preparing all the time, monitoring the problems that have arisen, and preparing a proposal for amendments, which we have submitted in the end. In doing so, however, we have done our utmost to make marriage more viable. For example, all the permits requested by officials who also have companies have been resolved positively. The basic opinions that we have adopted in view of the lack of clarity and interpretation of certain provisions of the law have been such that they have contributed to this life. We ourselves have proposed to some officials, entrepreneurs who had difficulties with the law to initiate proceedings before the Constitutional Court, and when the Constitutional Court asked us what we thought about these initiatives, our answer was that it was really not difficult for the Constitutional Court to write a decision declaring, as an unconstitutional part of our law. We are very pleased with this resolution of the Constitutional Court. If you look at our website, you will see that there is a new list of companies that are not as provided for by the law as before, but that there are now state institutions and concrete companies with which these specific institutions are not allowed to operate. So we have done everything we can to make this law real, lifeless, so that it does not cause any more harmful consequences than it already has. But through the extraordinary concrete decisions of the law, the commission was unable to do anything. As for the number of applications, there were some questions. We did not process all applications simply for a simple reason because we did not have sufficient capacity, which was not enough public officials to deal with it. But that doesn't mean these applications won't be subject to processing. Today’s situation is such that of the 302 applications we processed around 170, the others are still waiting for a solution. Those applications that we have processed and we have not sent to any authority are such, but that will certainly be known by Mr Kangler, they belong in the category of applications that you cannot place anywhere because they relate to legal proceedings that are sometimes the result of the position of the moon and similar things. We have simply archived these applications with us and are waiting for anything to happen so that they can be activated again. But for once with these applications, nothing could be done. I'm sorry, I'll be done. I'd like to find smart answers to all your questions. I just want to say one thing. I strongly deny the statements made by one of the Members that we have in any way exceeded our powers.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u41	Thank you, Mr. Kos. I'm afraid the time has run out. All the advertised debaters who wanted it got their word. Since the time for discussion has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss the matter under Rule 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. I'll read it. Yuri, Pecan, Potrata, Kumer, Versnik, Kovach, Pike, Mog. Did I let anyone go? Juice, Friend, Kangler. Mr. Kumer has given up. Marine, I'm crossing Pike. One more time. Yuri, Pecan, Potrata, Veršnik, Kovacic, Mogue, Sok, Friend, Kangler, Marine. Gentlemen, one minute. Here you go, Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u42	Thank you. Since I have only a minute, I will first ask my colleague Kangler to give me a glimpse of that important document he was showing, without a special permission, because it is already circulating in the ranks of the People's Party, so I would also like to have a look at this document. Second. It's about organ politics. We also appoint judges, and for this reason they are not politically infected. And the same political name will be given to the Council of RTV, so that when we talk about the independence of this body - it does not belong to your kind. But it doesn't mean that, I repeat, they're politically infected, the ones we call. Finally, it is only a finding that the Commission's report, like the report for it by the parliamentary committee responsible, proves that the existence of this Commission is justified and that it needs further powers [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u43	Thank you, Mr. Yuri. Mrs. Roach.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u44	Thank you very much. The Commission's report indicates a number of improvements that would have to be made in the existing law, which would have allowed this Commission to carry out its work in the sense that it was actually established and for which it was adopted, is said to prevent corruption. All these different lists and finding out where corruption can come from is, in fact, essential. And I have to say again, as I have already said, even if you erase the anti-corruption law by law and if you abolish this commission, in the Izola municipality I will at least make sure that we make a integrity plan by the end of this term, because this is how to determine where municipal officials, state officials, doctors and judges are, and so on, exposed to corruption. And that's the way to prevent and not treat. And here, I think you're completely mistaken.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u45	Thank you, Mrs. Pecans. Mrs. Purgatory.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u46	Thank you for your word. The report assures me that the Commission acted in accordance with the law in force. If concerns are about the viability of certain solutions, then it is necessary to amend the law, not to change or turn matters upside down, and to end the commission and replace it with some law that has been proven inappropriate in the previous solution. However, I think that the most difficult to accept are the allegations that challenge the independence of the Commission by appointment in the National Assembly, because this same National Assembly has listened to stories about how the RTV Programme Council will be independent and will be appointed by the National Assembly. But only the same valet must apply to all cases, not the way we like it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u47	Thank you, Mrs. Potter. Mr. Versnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u48	Thank you. I'd say once again, I didn't talk about the commission being independent, but I'm saying that every commission will be political, that's what it was and that it will be. And that's what I'm going to say is that the idea of an independent, independent expert committee came from your president. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u49	Thank you, Mr. Versnick. Mr. Kovacich.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u50	Thank you. Well, there is absolutely no independence, and I think that's a fact and it's clear. But I ask you which commission is more independent: whether the one appointed by the National Assembly and against whose appointment the entire opposition opposed, or this commission now to be appointed so that the opposition will have a majority in this commission and also the president. [[...]] [[Back-up advertising.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u51	Only Kovačič has the floor, please, Mrs. Pečanova.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u52	So, I think the difference is obvious. This commission, which was appointed in the previous term, was explicitly opposed and opposed by the opposition as a whole. But now the opposition will have a majority. Now, judge who will enjoy greater confidence in the public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u53	Thank you, Mr. Kovacich. Mr. Mogue.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u54	Thank you so much for saying that. First, a variation on whether this commission is a political body or not. If it is because it has been elected by the National Assembly as a political body, then all courts are a political body and the RTV Slovenian Programme Council will also be a political body. Another time. As to whether anyone is dependent or independent of the classified information that I have received to a large extent in addition to my colleague Kangler, I could then say with regard to arms trafficking that there are huge, large numbers of people who are carriers of public life in the Republic of Slovenia, then of course they are dependent. And thirdly, with regard to the law on the abolition of this commission, which is under procedure, I can say, if we vote it, then this work in the National Assembly is now a requisition for this commission.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u55	Thank you. Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u56	Thank you very much. So this report is very brief, so that anyone who wanted to read it could read it. Of course, it is clear from this report that this commission chose something, then sorted it and sent it on. So, from such work - I have already said this - it has the most, I think, benefits from this Post Office of the Republic of Slovenia, because a lot of materials are being sent around. Something is certain that, under such a law and under such conditions of work, this commission is inoperable and, of course, it is better to spend this billion, as much as this commission would spend in four years, on the better work of the police, the prosecution and the courts. These are the authorities that must suppress corruption, not prevent it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u57	Thank you. Mr. Friend.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So the Commission is professional, it is correct, but it does not have the right competences, legal powers and, of course, it is expensive. It is in violation of constitutional provisions, as the Constitutional Court has unequivocally stated, and if the ruling coalition had seriously intended to do with corruption, it would not have appointed such a commission as if it had taken a serious stand against corruption, it should have closed one of its own and today would not have been you in power as they are, but perhaps someone else. This is a mistake, a fundamental mistake of the former government and not to repeat it now. In fact, we have to fight corruption in the only way, that is through legal persecution, the identification of real facts and persecution. That's not what today is. Corruption continues to flourish, and we are here full of mouths, so that everyone can be against it, of course, for corruption to be no more. But we don't want to do anything but mix fog. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u59	Thank you, Mr. Friend. Mr. Kangler, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u60	Thank you for your word. I'll give Mr. Yuri a brief answer. I'll allow you to have a look at this document, in accordance with the Secret Data Act, Article 4. This document is unique in view of the fact that only one user is written and there is no reason to reproduce, as colleague Anderlič mentioned earlier that it is already circulating. I think that a Member has the right to look into such a document. But this document does not fly so that someone does not misinterpret, directly to Mr. Kos. In this document, however, the way in which politics affects some such or other people is clear and visible. And a lot of people will be able to read a lot of things. It is true, as Mr Kos warned me, that only the Slovenian People's Party had objected to his appointment in the previous term. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] The opposition, however, was not present at the time to demonstrate democratically that it is the way it is. [[...]] That's another truth.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u61	Thank you. And Mr. Marinic.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u62	Thank you so much for saying that. President-in-Office [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u63	Please, Mr. Marinic has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u64	It is difficult to say in one minute what I would like to say, however; the report on the work of the Anti-Corruption Commission has, of course, produced many things. We've already said some of this today, and that's true. Of course, I feel a great deal of damage, and perhaps time will also show that it was inappropriate and that it was wrong for many members of the municipal councils at the lowest levels to lose the opportunity to contribute to the development of local communities. For these were mostly capable entrepreneurs, intellectuals who gave, who wanted to contribute to the development of local communities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u65	Thank you. This concludes the debate. The proposal for a decision will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 18th item of the agenda or no later than 20.45 hours. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 8. It's a second-hand proposal for a witness protection bill. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to a government representative for further explanation. Mr Robert Marolt, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u66	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members, distinguished Members! The provisions of the draft law lay down the basic principles relating to the protection of witnesses. The protection of persons at risk shall be provided in the pre-trial procedure and during and after the completion of the criminal procedure, which shall be carried out on account of the offences set out in the proposal for a law. The provisions of the bill also make sense for contraventions, i.e. for suspects or accused persons who may be penalized under criminal law if they are at risk because, as perpetrators of criminal offences committed in the criminal association, they have prevented the further execution of these offences or have disclosed information relevant to the investigation and proof of the crimes already committed. In order to protect persons at risk, the following conditions must be met cumulatively. For the first time, that a pre-trial or criminal procedure is under way for a criminal offence which may be ordered under the Criminal Procedure Act to cover up investigative measures; secondly, that the witness is aware of such an offence, the perpetrator or other relevant circumstances; thirdly, that a criminal offence cannot be investigated or proved or carried out without the participation of that witness in a pre-trial or criminal procedure; fourthly, that such cooperation poses a serious risk to his or her life or the life or the body of another person at risk; fifthly, that such a risk cannot be prevented and ensured the participation of the witness at risk without the implementation of emergency protective measures or programmes under that law; and sixthly, that, on the basis of an assessment of the unit, the possibility of a successful implementation of the protection programme is determined. The proposed law establishes a Commission to protect persons at risk who decide on the implementation of the protection programme to include and terminate the implementation of the protection programme. The measures envisaged in the programme of protected persons are: the relocation of a person, the modified documents, the prevention of the transmission of personal data and the control of inquiries by records, the concealment of identity for the purposes of judicial proceedings, the change of identity, the use of video conference and telephone conference, international exchange, prison measures and the economic and social support of protected persons. The law establishes a unit for the protection of persons at risk who carry out emergency protective measures before the Commission's decision to include the person at risk in the protection programme [[These are: advice to the unit, technical protection of the person or place of residence, physical protection of the person or place of residence, temporary relocation of the person]] and propose and implement other measures in the protection programme. An application for the inclusion of an endangered witness in the protection programme shall be the responsibility of the Attorney General and may be authorised in writing by another State Prosecutor to exercise his powers under this Act. No later than 8 days after receipt of the proposal from the Attorney General, the Commission shall decide whether to introduce a procedure for inclusion in the protection programme. We must stress that the proposed law establishes the conditions for the effective conduct of predictive and criminal proceedings. The adoption and implementation of the proposed law will fulfil the obligation of the Republic of Slovenia to provide a legal basis and an organisational framework for the protection of witnesses, their relatives and other persons whose life or body is threatened by testimony, including in the pre-trial procedure and during and after the criminal procedure resulting from important international documents.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u67	Thank you, Mr. Marolt. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as the parent working body that prepared the report. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Dimitrij Kovačič will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u68	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the Ministry of Justice, colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we support the proposed law on witness protection. As in other countries, in Slovenia it has been shown that organised crime has many times been an intervention and pressure on people who could provide law enforcement authorities with certain data in detecting such crimes or perpetrators of such crimes, thus becoming these persons or their family members at risk, which, of course, affects the increase in their fear and thus, of course, the willingness to testify is reduced or even impossible. It is in the interest of the State to effectively prosecute crime and one of the important elements of this effectiveness is the active participation of witnesses, as well as of so-called scapegoats, with the competent law enforcement authorities and, of course, in the proceedings before the competent courts. It is clear that the willingness of these persons to cooperate can only be ensured if they do not feel threatened, so that they feel safe or if the State provides them with adequate protection that prevents or reduces their threat to perpetrators of crimes. Just as the Witnesses were at risk, it was often a major obstacle that the police or the prosecution could collect decisive information and evidence about the crimes committed or their perpetrators. These were also due to fear of potential witnesses who refused to cooperate or were afraid to give important information that would burden the perpetrators of the crimes, so these perpetrators avoided the time limits of justice. According to Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party, the proposed law contains provisions that provide adequate protection for witnesses, either in the same way or in the same way as other comparable European countries. After all, it is also a matter of implementing international conventions that oblige countries to comply with the relevant legislation in this area. It is essential in this law that it provides the conditions both for the protection of the so-called scapegoats, i.e. those responsible for criminal offences, who, because of the law on criminal proceedings, are based on the expectation of a more favourable treatment of their delinquency, are willing to cooperate with law enforcement and judicial authorities and to testify against criminal associations, within which they have previously acted. Of course, the law also protects other Witnesses who are threatened by their testimony in criminal and predestination proceedings, as well as after the end of these proceedings. However, since their testimony may also be affected by threats to their family members and relatives, adequate protection is provided for them. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we believe that the law on witness protection is one step towards a more effective fight against organised crime. Of course, this step alone will not be enough, some other steps will be needed, including legislative ones, but the direction is right and this is the direction our Group welcomes, so the Witness Protection Act will support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u69	Thank you, Mr. Kovacich. Ms Majda Potter will present the position of the Socialist Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u70	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members, distinguished representatives of the Government. The task of providing personal security to witnesses in the pre-trial procedure, during and after criminal proceedings, where there is a legitimate risk to the lives of witnesses, has been ordered by 141.a. Article of the Criminal Procedure Act. This introduction of protective measures or a witness protection programme shall be introduced on a proposal from the State Prosecutor. The third paragraph of the Criminal Procedure Act states, "the law lays down the procedure and conditions for inclusion in the protection scheme and for the termination of the protection programme, the competent authorities, safeguards, records and data protection, financing and supervision of the implementation of the protection programmes." Thus, the proposal for a law on witness protection has resulted in this, as well as the commitments imposed on the Republic of Slovenia by a number of international conventions and other international instruments which also regulate the field of witness protection. The applicant predicts that the law will provide both for the protection of complainants who act as witnesses in certain proceedings and for witnesses who are at risk of testimony in criminal proceedings and injurers or victims of criminal acts who are acting as witnesses in the proceedings, with protection provided for their neighbors who would be at risk. The adoption of the law will ensure the cooperation of the competent authorities of the Republic of Slovenia with the competent authorities of other countries in the field of witness protection, since, in particular, the fight against organised crime can only be effective in the context of international cooperation or exchange of endangered witnesses. It is precisely this objective to ensure the safety of the witnesses and to increase efficiency in the prosecution of particularly organised crime that justifies the planning of the financial impact on the state budget, which the applicant predicts only in the first year of 358 million and half, that it is difficult to predict. Since the legislative and legal comments on the labour force were largely eliminated by amendments, the proposed solution in Article 16 of the bill remained questionable for the Group of Social Democrats. However, the proposer also ensured that the legislative and legal service was not in conflict with the criminal code. Therefore, the Social Democrats' Group will not oppose the bill's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u71	Thank you, Mrs. Patrati. Mr Anton Kokalj will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u72	Otherwise, it was written by Mrs. Moica Kucler Dolinar, but the difference is obvious, so it's me. It's not? I'm glad it's not. In Slovenian criminal law, we know several institutes that connect with witnesses. There are categories of persons who are exempt from the duty of testimony: a close, religious confessor, a doctor, a lawyer. A further step is to provide for particularly sensitive witnesses, such as the removal of the accused from the hearing, the prohibition of direct questioning of a person under 15 years of age and beyond. The Witness Protection Act is a step further and, in accordance with international conventions, provides for the special protection of those persons whose lives would be particularly at risk as a result of their testimony. The hearing of witnesses is an important means of proof. In all new forms of crime, such as international crime, drugs, corruption, extortion, there is a need for new forms of witness protection that have not been regulated in our country so far. Thus, individual procedures require measures to protect the witness, cover up her identity, move, video conference or economic and social support. This law will also lay down the conditions for scapegoats acting as witnesses as well as other witnesses who are at risk of testifying in proceedings. The draft law introduces two new bodies, a commission composed of judges, prosecutors and representatives of the competent ministries, will be competent to decide on the inclusion and termination of the implementation of the protection programme and other acts laid down by this law. The Witness Protection Unit will, in particular, carry out the necessary protection measures for witnesses and scapegoats. In order to be included in the protection programme, the person will have to meet the specific conditions. In view of the level of risk, the person will be adequately insured. A person will be able to move, arrange documents, change their identity. The person will receive economic and social support and the financial means of support will be exempt from taxes. It is necessary to ensure that the Witnesses do not fear for their lives and for the lives of their loved ones if they cooperate with law enforcement authorities. It is important to ensure protection before life is directly threatened. Surely, these changes will also help to encourage a number of people, which they did not hope to do before because of their own security concerns, thus helping to improve the outcome of the trials and to improve the legal security of citizens. All of this and other solutions seem appropriate and acceptable to us, so New Slovenia - The Christian People's Party will support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u73	Thank you, Mr. Kokal. Mr Franz Kangler will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u74	Thank you for your word. Dear Members and Members. The Witness Protection Act is very important for the Slovenian People's Party. I think that this is an important law that allows the judiciary to go a little deeper into proving in some cases those crimes that are the worst and which threaten the normal civil society of some countries. After its independence, Slovenia is located in the European Union, both between the east and the west, between the north and the south, and is very interesting and subject to certain international criminal associations that meet in any way in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. Therefore, the need to protect the Witnesses is much greater, and it was high time that we opened up the subject of Witness protection. The fact is that the practice so far has shown that so-called [[...]] [[Incomprehensible]] Witnesses in many cases were not possible or limited. Because of certain pressures and threats, the Witnesses did not properly carry out their witnessing duties. The solutions that we are considering go in this direction, so that in the future this area of evidence will actually be handled properly before the court and the witnesses will actually exercise their right and duty of testimony. At the same time, adequate protection will be offered to those witnesses who feel threatened within the institutions designated to protect and introduce the possibility of using interrogation techniques. All of this and other solutions seem appropriate and acceptable to us, so in the Slovenian People's Party we will fully support the law, as prepared by the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u75	Thank you, Mr. Kangler. Mr Boštjan Zagorac will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u76	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Your Honors are here! The proposal for a Witness Protection Act is the law with which the National Assembly in general, not just in this composition, meets for the first time. The first reason for the adoption of such a law is, at least in our opinion, the protection of the witnesses, in the opinion of the Slovenian National Party. Too many cases in the Slovenian justice system have fallen mainly because witnesses have simply been afraid to testify against perpetrators of crimes. We even know something in the Slovenian public about very resounding cases that have fallen mainly because of this. Further and perhaps not so important a reason for the adoption of such a law is the harmonisation of Slovenian legislation with international rules. The United Nations Convention against International Organized Crime, the Convention on Mutual Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters between the Member States of the European Union, the Council's Framework Decision on the Situation of Victims in Criminal Procedures, and some of them could be listed - they have put us on the road to finally obtaining such a law. The aim of the law is in particular to provide conditions for the protection of scapegoats who in certain procedures act as witnesses - we know that such cases are also very large and people do not hope to indict the main culprit mainly because they fear the consequences that follow after serving the prison sentence. The draft law lays down the conditions and procedures for the protection of witnesses and other persons at risk of participating in criminal proceedings. Protection is possible in the pre-trial procedure, which is right, during the criminal procedure, which is also right, and most importantly, after the completion of the criminal procedure. The financial consequences, as anticipated by the government, I believe and believe that the Slovenian National Party at first sight look great. However, in order to ensure legal certainty and to solve the most serious crimes, the most publicly exposed crimes must be overlooked. I believe that there will be some changes to the law, including during this term, due to the mandate by 2008. In particular, more attention should be paid to the fact that minors are also at risk in certain procedures. A more detailed explanation of the reasons for the transfer of powers to decide on the inclusion in the witness protection programme from the courts to the Commission will be needed. It should also be noted that there is a discrepancy between the duty of a protected witness to declare proceedings before a court in accordance with the content of the statement made by the State Prosecutor and the duty of the witness to speak the truth before a court and not to silence anything. I think that this article of the Criminal Procedure Act has been violated most of the time, and it is precisely because we have not provided witnesses with the security necessary to tell, I will say, with a calm conscience and with a sense of security that reveals the pure truth or all the facts that they know about a particular crime. In the Slovenian national side, we will support the proposal for a witness protection law mainly for the reasons I have stated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u77	Thank you, Mr. Zagorec. Mr Willi Rezman will present the position of the DeSUS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The DeSUS Group believes that, in the light of another regulation that tanges this area, the law does not have any strategic ambitions and is unlikely to have some very radical consequences or not to notice any very big news that should be feared by any prejudice. Surely such a marriage is necessary, so we will support it in our group. We will support it because it will be required under international frameworks because certain agreements require it. We will also support it because it predicts and hopes that it will be successful, including greater efficiency in detection, repression, and later in sanctioning evil deeds. However, perhaps something will help the prosecution, and let me remind you that, months ago, when the Attorney-General submitted a report, we may have asked whether, perhaps within a year, when she gives a new report, it is possible to find out that investigators and others are harder than villains, she did not hope to provide such assurances. It is said that we hope that something will contribute in this direction as well. As our investigators and others involved in these proceedings run faster, the Witnesses will certainly be indispensable, and these witnesses will certainly need to be protected. In doing so, many will have a dilemma, a moral, valuable prejudice, but it is likely that practical benefits, purely pragmatic effects, should also be burdened. This is about the need to protect the repentant, the need to protect those involved, as well as, of course, the protection of others, who, as we call them, are close or we judge that consideration should also be given to protecting others in these processes. Among other things, it was noted that judges were needed for protection. There are many threats to them, too. By adopting this law, we may limit the possibilities of various pressures, the possibility that people, because of fear or avoiding taking responsibility, would be somehow lethargic and that they would have too much tolerance for bad deeds or too much fear of revenge. Then, hopefully, less false testimony, less testimony out of fear, less what you might call a "new" distraction from the problem, because problems remain. When we decide in the DeSUS Group to support those who should run faster than those who do bad things, let me once again see to it that we wish that prevention would be better, that detection would be effective, that evidence procedures - with as much efficiency as possible - support this bill in our group.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u79	Thank you, Mr. Rezman. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles, so I conclude the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, the assembly will vote on the law on Wednesday, 30 November 2005, following the end of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 11. At the end of the day, this is on the eve of a proposal for a law amending the law on research and development. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the Minister for Higher Education, Science and Technology, Dr. Juret Zupan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u80	Dear President! Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The government has put into the procedure the amendment of the law on research activities, the amendment in Article 33 in the second paragraph, which provides that the number of government representatives in the boards of public administrations will increase by having a majority in the boards of directors. The exact text is in the materials. There are several reasons for this. The most important reason for this is the strategy for the development of Slovenia and the measures taken to do so, namely that Slovenia needs a single research space, just as Europe needs a European research space, we want to unify this space. We want to integrate it into the European Research Area and we want to do so in such a way that it will be as effective and useful as possible for the users of research services as it is for the researchers themselves. In the review of the situation, we have found that many changes are needed mainly from the point of view of responsibility, efficiency and coordination between individual public research institutions. When we examined this, we saw that since the seventeen public research institutions we have, none of them, that is, none of the founding acts of these seventeen institutes at the time of the law that we are now amending, so during the three years that law has been in force since 14.11.2002, and at that time none of the institutions' founding acts have been amended as required by law. This means that a third - a third - would be a third, which means, of course, that the institutions did not feel any need for this change and we also believe that there is no change for this situation. Therefore, we have amended this law to ensure, of course, efficiency and accountability. For what we think of this coordination and efficiency, let me just say that, of course, the acts that individual institutes have - and here is the problem, there are not so many problems in coordination within an institution, of course they are agreed on in principle, but there is a problem in coordinated action in coordinating all institutions, and that is what we want: unifying the research space. If we are talking only about mobility, which is one of the basic elements of the research space in Slovenia and of course in Europe, it is, let's just say, when reviewing the acts, how different public research institutes, i.e. the seventeen, how different they deal with the possibility of researchers, what are the conditions to go, what their pay is, how do they return, how do they work with different categories such as married, married, and what are the conditions for them to go, what their pay is, how do they return? In short, each institution has something of its own, and this, of course, significantly prevents mobility and transparency, the equality of conditions for all researchers. What does that mean, of course, across from Europe, we all know. So the essence of our proposal is that, of course, the government assumes the responsibility to ensure that those who will manage on behalf of the government on the boards of administration are in fact organised equally. Therefore, the boards of directors are, therefore, to organise the work of researchers, research groups in such a way as to be comparable and comparable to Europe. This is happening all over Europe, in short, we are coordinating this whole European research space. In addition, in Slovenia, we coordinate this research space with higher education research space, because we believe - and also in Europe, although this trend is not yet so pronounced - it appears - that the research space also unites with higher education and, of course, imposes additional responsibilities on research institutes to bring their activities and regulations into line. I think these are valid enough reasons for you to understand and accept this law. We also believe, of course, that with this law, the government assumes a greater responsibility than it has so far in organising the research space, while, of course, giving directors a slightly more chance to rely on the government's decisions not to be alone; in short, not everyone is looking for their own solutions and then not everyone is talking in certain ways. We believe that such guidelines are important and meaningful, and therefore I believe that honourable Members and honourable Members will support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u81	Thank you, Minister, Dr. Zupan. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Higher Education, Science and Technology Development as the parent working body. I ask the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Rudolf Mojet, to present the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u82	Thank you very much and very much. At the beginning of the Committee's meeting, Minister Jure Zupan said in explanation of the bill's proposal that, within the framework of the measures taken by the government in the field of economy, it is necessary to create such conditions in Slovenia in the field of research in order to approach the European Research Area, which is the main condition for the creation of a mobile, flexible and researchers-friendly labour market. One of the instruments to be implemented here is also the supervision of the boards of public research institutions and the new law provides for the majority of government representatives to be represented on the boards of administration, as they only adopt work programmes, financial plans, adopt a report on the implementation of work programmes and financial plans. The representative of the Council of State said that, with the proposed change in the composition of the boards of directors in public research institutions, they did not agree and supported the maintenance of their status under the law in force in 2002, as the proposal in the law would result in the loss of the level of autonomy that differs between the public and the state. The representatives of the interested public who participated in the committee discussion did not support the proposed amendment of the law. Thus, the representative of the University of Primorsk considered that the proposed amendment to the law was questionable and not sufficiently justified because it gave political control or centralised organisation of the research work much more negative than positive results. Involvement of policy in the research work of institutions, however, has a negative impact on quality of work. The representative of the coordination of the research institutes of Slovenia considered that the proposal of the composition of the boards of directors is a step backwards, given that research institutions would lose some credibility and it would be difficult for the public to trust the science produced by state institutes through national programmes. Research institutes from the government receive institutive funds representing 10 to 20 per cent of the Institute's total income and all the rest receive money on the basis of an invitation to tender in the form of project and programme funding or from private funds. All these funds are strictly intended and are not decided on by the Management Board or the Director, and it is therefore not appropriate to argue that, in view of the better review and use of the financial resources provided by the State, it is necessary to strengthen the role of the State in the Management Boards. The Union of Education, Education, Science and Culture of Slovenia opposes the amendment of the law and advocates that the structure of the administrative boards of public research institutions remain unchanged, as the proposed amendments would reduce the impact of employees on the decision-making of part of the institution, reduce their autonomy and increase political pressures and political decisions instead of professional decisions. In an extensive debate, opposition Members and Members considered the proposed amendment to the law to be inadequately substantiated and therefore unacceptable. Although the law explains that its adoption will have no other consequences, it is clear that in the field of research, politicisation and the removal of the partnership introduced by the 2002 Act is being introduced. The proposed law will also lose the autonomy of the scientific research sphere in Slovenia. The opposition also points out that the Government does not wish to take into account the opinion of the legislative and legal service, in which the relationship between the role of the National Assembly in the creation of research and development activities vis-à-vis the government is precisely defined. This opinion also rejects the explanation for Article 1, in which the Government considers that it is not now possible to ensure that the public administration adopts programming guidelines in accordance with the guidelines and priorities of the Government, which is also the founder of the majority finance of these institutions. Dr Slavko Gaber felt that we should not reduce the impact of the economy on the boards of directors, but that the state knew better what was in the interests of the users and that it would already ensure that their interests were expressed in the right or proposed boards of administration. He therefore also suggested that the Committee should adopt a decision that the proposal for a law amending the law on research and development activities was not appropriate for further consideration. On the contrary, Members and Members of the parties represented in the government felt that the effects of the cost of operating institutions covered by public funds paid from the tax money should be monitored more appropriately. It is therefore necessary to increase the influence of the State as the founder of the institution in the decision-making of their administrative committees. Following the debate, 7 opposition votes in favour and 7 positions against which no decision was taken. Furthermore, the members of the position rejected all amendments to the opposition and accepted only the amendment proposed by the legislative and legal service. With this, we have submitted to you a complementary proposal for a law and I propose that you adopt such a law in the procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u83	Thank you, Mr. Mohet. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Dr Slavko Gaber will present the position of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u84	Dear Mr. President! Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen! In fact, I am sorry to say very directly that we have a completely unnecessary and harmful law before us for Slovenian science. Change contains only one idea. In fact, the idea of supporting public research institutes in the 21st century and making them, as far as possible, the ruling policy of a submissive institution. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we join those who oppose this amendment of the law. Allow me to list them: the coordination of the research institutes of this country, the union, the SVIZ in the field of research, the State Council, universities and also the legislative service of this National Assembly warn that we are engaged by a company that is neither necessary nor even harmful. What are we doing with this law? The tormented three-partite structure, difficult to agree on, and I admit that it is not yet fully established in our heads, but only in functioning, in which we are to decide together what the work of these institutions, researchers and researchers, users and countries should be, we are trading for state domination, government domination in deciding on the work of the institutes. Instead of inviting them to cooperate and, in agreement with them, prepare them to make effective use of their knowledge as far as possible for the benefit of this company, to exclude them from the boards of directors or to give them such a place that the question is why they should participate in these boards at all. By doing so, the government has shown a lack of understanding of trends in the management of research institutions in Europe and around the world and, at least equally bad, has shown complete mistrust for those who are supposed to know what results we need in these areas and for those who are supposed to be able to contribute to this space at all. I do not understand, ladies and gentlemen, how it is possible not to trust qualified people to this extent, such as the scientific sphere. This mistrust will harm the country more or less with certainty. The Slovenian government by this law shows that it does not trust Slovenian intelligence or, rather, intelligence in Slovenia. He only believes in his true judgment. She'll coordinate, she knows what's right. That's not how science works. Quality in these areas is not achieved through a central command system. It is not easy to reach it, but one thing is certain, this path is certainly wrong. Which are true, this is a bigger problem, this question is not so easy to answer. In doing so, as a reason for sustaining, the reasons that are partly ridiculous are partly logically wrong, but the most frightening is that they are more than obviously harmful. We cannot therefore support this law in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. We even think that, on behalf of common sense, it would be wise for the Minister to propose to his Members and Members, or that they themselves decide that this law would not be adopted because it is unnecessary; science does not contribute to anything, but gives a lot of room for manoeuvre to aggravate the situation in this area.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u85	Thank you, Mr. Gabra. Ms Majda Potter will present the position of the Socialist Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u86	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Allow me to present the position of the Social Democrats' Group on the law, which covers only three articles, but which is one purpose, is to change the structure of the administrative committees of public research and infrastructure institutions. We Social Democrats have taken three steps to convince lawmakers that the bill is unnecessary, bad and harmful in its aftermath. We therefore expect that the debate at the plenary session of the National Assembly will be another opportunity for us to socially reject the attempt to sustain public research and infrastructure institutions. Why? In support of the law, the applicant stated that the amendment of the law did not prejudice the basic principles of the law on research and development activities. We challenge that fact. We deny because the proposed amendment abolishes the autonomy of research and development operators. The aim of the amendment of the law, the proposaler states, is to change the ratio of the number of members on the board of directors appointed or elected by the founder, employees and users of public service. The fact that internal acts have not yet been amended in all cases of 17 such public institutions cannot be the reason why we apriorously declare a solution bad. The amendment is intended to remedy the shortcomings of the law and to remedy the impractical or inadequate legal solution relating to the structure of the board of directors of public research and public infrastructure institutions. This was also the response of the distinguished Minister when I asked him the question why to change the structure of the boards. Discussing the three-partite structure of the boards can only lead to better results and there can be no argument that negotiating is impractical because it requires some effort and time. The proposal also states that, on the basis of practice so far, by amending the law, it legitimizes a solution that has proved to be appropriate and effective. I believe that, for an effective reason, because of the proposed solution, the government will have full control over developments in research and infrastructure public institutions. In fact, in the structure in which the Management Board is to count from 5 to 9 members, where it is required that the founders of the Administrative Board must be able to provide a majority on a second condition, i.e. the same number between the operators and the contracting entities of the activity, i.e. in this balance, by two representatives, are employed only on an administrative board of 9 members. This, however, is in full conflict with what the drafters of the public RTV law referred to when they like to refer to the Constitutional Court's decision as to how employees' interests must be represented in the world. The solutions proposed represent a step backwards with regard to the quality management of institutions based on the principles of state science autonomy and partnership with social society. This is a new tool for the state's science control and thus the subordination of Slovenian creative thoughts to the state's official office and to every policy. This is an expression of the desire to ethatise Slovenia, and this is also an intrusion of politicisation into science, so we will oppose this proposal in the Socialist Group of Members, and we are also giving thought to the amendments tabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u87	Thank you very much. The word is given by Mr. Master Franz Capuder on behalf of New Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u88	Thank you very much, Mr President, Mr Minister, Members and Members of Parliament. Slovenia's goal is to become a modern and competitive society in all its segments. This will be achieved through greater investment in the development of own knowledge and the implementation of accessible, foreign knowledge. For this reason, it is necessary to create such conditions in the research sphere in Slovenia in order to approach the European Research Area, which, in our view, is the main condition for the creation of a mobile and flexible and researchers-friendly labour market. The currently in force law on research and development activities, which entered into force at the end of 2002, sets out the principles and objectives as an essential principle and regulates the implementation of the policy of research and development activities financed by the State budget and other resources. It also lays down the organisation of research and development activities and the conditions for carrying out this activity. Research should not be the purpose of itself, as has been the case all too often in the past, but, above all, it should serve the full and even development of our society. This is especially true now that our country has committed itself to following the objectives of the Lisbon Strategy and will devote even more resources to this end than it has so far. One of the objectives that the government will have to pursue is to encourage research institutions to cooperate more closely with the economy. In Novi Slovenije - We therefore expect the Christian People's Party from the government to regulate the system of financing public research institutions in order to reward cooperation with the economy. The Public Research Institute and the Public Infrastructure Institute are managed by the Management Board. The task of the Management Boards is to adopt a work programme, financial plans, reports on the implementation of the work programme and other activities defined in the statutes of individual public research institutions. The solutions to the law currently in force do not allow the public administration to adopt policy guidance in accordance with the government's guidelines and priorities, which also, in the largest proportion, finances all these institutions and is responsible for the implementation of its programme. As we have heard many times today, these solutions have not yet been implemented, and so even now most of the boards in these public research institutions are made up in the way they used to be, that is, that the government has a majority in them. I come from such a institution and the government still has a majority, 4 governments, 3 employees, and in three years these things have not changed. That is why I think it is wise for the government to decide to amend the law on research and development activities in an article where the law defines the ratio of the number of members on the board of the public research and infrastructure institutions in such a way that it contains the majority of all members of the founders' representatives, while the remaining members are equal to the number of representatives of employees and users of the public service. It is obvious that the State is attempting to intervene with this proposal in the autonomy of public research institutions. Each public institution shall have a scientific or professional council dealing with questions relating to the scientific and professional work of the public institution. It shall decide on the professional issues within the framework of the powers, prepare the professional basis for the work programmes and the development of the public institution, give the Management Board and the Director opinions and suggestions on the organisation of work and the conditions for the development of activities, and carry out other tasks defined in the individual statutes. In Novi Slovenije - The Christian People's Party we are convinced that the change of law does not affect the autonomy of researchers and institutions, but it is the desire of proposers to ensure that public funds are truly transparent and, above all, efficient. That is why we will support changes in the law in our party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mr Mikhael Prevc has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u90	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The Law amending the Law on Research and Development, which we are considering, is very short, as it only refers to the amendment of Article 33 of the current law. The draft law amends the composition of the boards of public research institutions to increase the proportion of members of the board of directors held by the founder. Up to now, the administrative department has been made up of representatives of the founders, employees and users of services. In the Slovenian People's Party, we find that Slovenian science, compared to other countries with comparable gross domestic product despite a satisfactory number of researchers and infrastructures, does not contribute enough to economic development and general social progress. So far, the Republic of Slovenia has not been able to establish a relationship between science and the economy, which would provide a positive developmental spiral. One of the shortcomings of Slovenian science is that the innovation system does not work among individual factors, such as universities, research institutes, the economy and supporting institutions, there is insufficient cooperation. Many different opinions were made on the proposed amendment to the Higher Education Committee, in particular in terms of reducing the autonomy of the scientific and research sphere in Slovenia, politicisation and the abolition of the partnership, which is to be provided by a third of the boards. In the Slovenian People's Party, we believe that another fact needs to be looked at. The current third composition of the Administrative Boards dispels the responsibility for the decisions of the Management Board, while it is indisputable that research institutions are mostly financed from public funds and therefore it is entirely acceptable that the Founder has a majority in management and thus clearly assumes management responsibility. And in this respect, of course, we agree with the proposed amendment proposed by the Government or the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology. We believe that the Minister has well assessed the current situation in the field of research in Slovenia and that the proposed solutions will enable the Management Boards to help develop research activities in Slovenia within their respective competences. In this context, we also expect closer cooperation between research institutes and the economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Ms Barbara Žgajner Tavš has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u92	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The challenge of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is to create a knowledge-based society. I believe that there is little doubt in this respect that education, research plays an important role, so much more in the practical context of the economy. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, when presenting the amendment to the Law on Research and Development Activities, stressed the current practice in the field of research activities, which is supposed to be ineffective and inadequate. For the same reason or in a desire to increase the link between the economy and research activity, the Ministry has drawn up a present law. But at first glance, the government has not prepared concrete programmes and concrete solutions that follow, and I will say not only the government's desire, but rather the need for the implementation of the Lisbon strategy. The government proposal follows only government policy. This is a policy-making issue, or I will also say politicalisation in the field of autonomous research. And I'll explain this to you. The direction or policy of institutions, institutions, should be given by the government. The government will have in the boards of public research institutions - I stressed, public research institutions - the majority because, according to the Minister on the working body and today's meeting, the founder must also have a majority. But allow me, the legislative and legal service clearly emphasises that the government is not the founder and the financier, but only exercises its constitutional rights and obligations if it is the founder of the Republic of Slovenia. The National Assembly shall be the one that adopts the national research programme and is the responsibility of the Government. In addition, each individual institution is bound by a law or act establishing a national programme to draw up its own programme of work containing scientific and research guidance, a research activity programme defining the scope of the public service and research work. It is therefore not clear which orientations and priorities should be determined in a specific case, except, once again, I will say, express politicisation in the field of research activities as well. The proposed amendment raises serious questions about the legal autonomy of research in our country. The Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly made specific comments to both the substantive articles of the law or the amendment of the law. It also points out that there is a significant difference between the current regime which determines the unitary representation of individual groups on the Management Board. Allow me another important fact. Members of the parent’s working body received quite a few opinions. However, I will not list all those institutions, directly or indirectly involved institutions. Not a single opinion is positive, but it is, as we have already heard today, important institutions, important institutions in our country. It does not know similar arrangements for Europe. The closest type of organisation with political control or centralised investigative work is Italian, which it applies to, in practice, that the results of the work are rather negative than positive, so that interference of policy with the investigative work of institutions has a more negative impact on the quality of work than on the positive. It is also interesting to see the opinion of economists who do not see the view in this amendment. Even more, they stress the fear that today's change will allow the government to ignore and disregard opinions or professions or employees or economists in the enforcement of its requirements. You know, this fear isn't so twisted out of the vine, it's repetitive on the working body, and it's obviously going to happen again today at the meeting when we adopt this law. In the Slovenian National Party Group, we estimate that different substantive measures are needed to implement the Lisbon Strategy, to which the Republic of Slovenia is also bound. Nor is it possible to enforce a law that is formally questionable, bad, which does not respect the principle of the supermation of legal acts and which gives the government renewed powers past the national assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Ms Eva Irgle has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u94	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members. We will, of course, support the proposed amendment of the law on research and development activities in the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group. The practical implementation of the law on research and development activities since its entry into force in 2002 further shows that certain legal solutions are impractical or inadequate, which is most clearly reflected in the amendment proposed by the Government regarding the structure of the administrative committees of public research and, of course, public infrastructure institutions. The purpose of the amendment of the law is to change the relationship between members of the Management Board of the Research and Infrastructure Institute, who are appointed or elected representatives by the founder of employees and users of services. The current law on research and development activities has been in force since 29 December 2002, i.e. for three years. By law, I am speaking here of course of Article 47, and the deadline for the issue of the sub-legislative rules necessary for the implementation of this Act is one year, and two years have passed since that date. Article 33 of the Act refers to the three-partite structure of the board of directors, and today the coordination of the research institutes of Slovenia states, quote: "The boards of directors in a number of Slovenian public research institutes are structured in this instant, in accordance with the regulations before 2002 and because the previous Government of the founding acts of these institutions have not been in line with the applicable law, which I have already said was adopted in 2002." In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we therefore believe that this is also evidence that the current legal solution regarding the structure of the administrative committees of public research and public infrastructure institutions is impractical or inadequate. This is proved by another indication of the coordination of the research institutes of Slovenia, and this is that these institutes have been operating completely normally with administrative approvals, in which I stress that the founder also now has a majority. They even acknowledge that there are no users' representatives on these boards and only slightly less than half of the employees' representatives, for example in ratio 4:3, of course in favour of the founder's representatives. It follows from the above-mentioned amendment of the law that the government, as a proposal-maker on the basis of it, could say as far as the practice so far legitimates a solution that has proved to be appropriate and effective. We will therefore, of course, support the proposed amendment in the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u95	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled, which will be guided by the review of the amendments of 23.11.2005. We have only one amendment ahead of us. Article 1 of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is amended as I am putting to the debate Article 1 and the amendment of the Group of Members of the Social Democrats. Who wants a word? Thank you very much. The word is "ma'am mag." Spending. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u96	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! Allow me to explain the amendment before you. In the amendment, the Social Democrats propose a slightly modified structure of the Governing Board, in which we believe that the structure should be carried out in such a way as to ensure that workers and employers have, it is said, employees' representatives and service users' representatives, the same number of members and the number of those members should be greater than those appointed by the founder's representative. This is a different solution than we suggested at a meeting of the parent working body, where we actually wanted to maintain the same structure as it has been so far. This is another attempt, this is the third step in which we want to convince the bill-maker that dialogue is needed and we see both the debate on the labour market and the current treatment, as well as the question raised by the Member State, as some kind of compensation for the absence of dialogue with the scientific and research sphere, which, however, has strongly challenged the proposed change in the structure of the boards. Mr Minister used the words responsibility, efficiency and coordination in an additional explanation of the bill. I think that the latter, coordination, can also be provided by one representative of the founder himself to the Governing Board if he does his work well. More importantly, it seems to me that Mr. Minister is connecting responsibility only with representatives coming from among the founders. I believe that this is, however, an underestimation of the Slovenian research sphere, as well as of the users of services, because I think that so far public research institutions have used the funds responsibly, and that science, research activities need to be given sufficient autonomy so that we can expect it to be effective. I expect you to support the amendment of the Social Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u97	Mr Rudolf Moge has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u98	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Gryner Tavševa was right, this debate, which took place on the committee, will be restored here today and I will quote Dante, who wrote over the hell of "lasciate fire spranza voi chi enterate" - let go of every hope you enter. But because of the magnetogram and the wider public interest, I am prepared to speak a few words that support this amendment tabled by the Social Democrats. The first thing I would say is that in these debates, as we have heard many times today, these unfortunate public institutions in the field of research, which have not aligned their statutes with the 2002 legislation in force, are certainly responsible for two ministers and a team around them, first of all the previous minister and another minister, who is now here before us, who has been in this position for one year. I think it would be wise for him to issue, on the basis of legislation that is in force, a set-up act on the basis of which the statutes of all public institutions would be amended, and in these public institutions, because, on the basis of the amendment of the statute, he has to appoint new administrative committees, the government has delegated high-quality people who would pursue those objectives that the government wants to achieve in its strategy. But, "look at the devil," on the contrary, the government itself, with this law that it proposes, has hung huge millstones around its neck, and will then be responsible for the people who work here in these public institutions, so it itself will be directly responsible for what will happen as a spoil of the work of public institutions. If followed, see, the procedure, which is the main purpose of these administrative committees, is the procedure for adopting the work programme. The government would have been, if it had adopted a new act and statutes, the ones who would have appointed directors and those directors as the most responsible for the preparation of the work programme. These Directors shall propose to the Management Board a work programme, not to the Management Boards, and shall mainly be supervisory and, of course, complement, in accordance with the Director and with the Collective, such a work programme followed by this financial plan. And in this context, the law that is now in force is completely good and gives the minister a wide enough diapason to manage this sphere of quality. It seems to me, dear colleagues and colleagues, that the law that we are considering today is extremely contrary to itself. Let's look at the example, the law now stands for some public research institution that will have 8 members, which determines that the state will set up and bear responsibility, 6 people, 1 will set up an economy and 1 will set up employees. If there's any assimitry here, if there's any better action here than in the law that was in force before, it seems to me that everyone is clear. And because of the fact that we wanted to achieve by this law that public research space would turn more towards the economy, instead of attracting staff from the economy to these boards of directors, where these work programmes are being formed and they would represent the interests of the economy, that these programmes are such as to include more knowledge that is useful, which is important for the economy, we have achieved exactly the opposite with this law, which is now in the procedure. The smaller the impact of the economy on the work of these institutions and the smaller the impact of the senior experts who are at Joseph Stefan, who are at the Chemical Institute, in order to co-create the work programme of this institution in the Management Board. That's why I have to say that this thing is as unacceptable to me as it is. And unless this amendment is adopted, of course, I will not support such a law at the end. And next, it seems to me that this law, even as it has been so many laws so far - Mr Minister, don't blame yourself, it's not your fault, you're signing the laws they're preparing for you - it's extremely poorly done, it's very perfect article 1. And what I regretted at the board meeting, Mr. Minister, is that you silenced the truth that when you left, you were represented by the director of the director's duties, and you said you were the director. So he didn't even have the powers the Director has to speak to. And I must say that when you, Mr Minister, left, the ranking of the debate was, according to my personal assessment, inappropriately lower, at times offensive, and perhaps you could make the law in a different form to the end if you, or Mr Secretary of State, took the time to hold on to the committee once a month when Members needed you most in solving certain problems. Because of all the things I've said, I'd be trying to put one more thing out here. This is that the entire public concerned opposes this law. I also think that, in adopting this in the form that is discussed here today and that it is all contained in Article 1, this behaviour was unwise. It is unwise not to talk to the Chamber of Commerce, not to talk to Koris, not to talk to the unions, and what you have pointed out here, behind this speaker stage, is not true. When it was exposed to why the directors did not take part in this, the answer was that. As soon as the proposal for a law came to the public when the government adopted it, the minister also expressed his wish to speak with the directors and, of course, we were ready immediately for that reason and the first deadline we received was tomorrow. This is said to be the day after the Committee's consideration. I would ask the government, by making it impossible for us to have less work this time in the National Assembly, to at least think that it is not just her in the world, but that there is also some interested public and that the views she has, at least before writing them in legal form, try to reconcile with the public concerned and then we will not be in such an impossible position as we are today. If we have applauded the Minister before and we have all your laws that you have brought, but there have been few, that is, few, adopted by consensus, I must say that the adoption of this law has resulted in a complete division on one side between the opposition, which has defended the position that this law is not good and between a position which has, of course, defended by the arguments that one and the other sides here have announced before this segment. I would ask, in terms of what I have said, colleagues and colleagues, that what is written in Dante's verses is the past and we are trying to con grano salis, or with grain of salt to support this amendment, which they have given to the Social Democrats and also to the public research sector, to give that role and recognition that goes to autonomy, to respect. This law takes both of them and I cannot imagine, a respected colleague and colleague, that in this country we can give greater recognition, greater validity and greater autonomy to the primary school council than to this committee of the public research institution.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, Dr. Zupan, would you like a word? Here you go. I would warn you that under the rules of procedure, a government can always get a word. [[...]] [[Intermediate speaking.]] Yeah, I'm sorry, we're going fine. I've got it all written down. I'm giving the Minister my word. [[...]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u100	I apologize only to my colleagues, if I have violated anything, I have taken the floor just to respond to some of the concerns expressed by my honourable Members, honourable Members and Members. Here, in fact, I would say this first, because, of course, using words that may have a different sound in different ears, I would clarify everything. Supporting is, of course, a word that has a worse connotation in our space, but when we look at what it means, public institutions are state institutions if they are established by the state and are municipal if they are made by the congregation, and in short, they are all a public institution. And it is quite clear that they have always been and will remain public research institutes, we do not support them, their situation remains as it is. So, a word of support for something that has been maintained before, or is already a national one, of course serves in essence only verbal pleasures or, say, kindness to an audience that is more acceptable to such words. The other thing is, of course, negotiation and partnership. The partnership must, of course, define what this means, where the partnership is equal to the decision-making option and the ability to make or make executive decisions. If, of course, we have a partnership in such a way that any thought of anyone can be blocked, then of course, the matter is very beautiful and likeable as far as negotiation is concerned. We never, I repeat, have never declared, nor has the government intended to do everything with the decrees or whatever, we have always been open to dialogue and discussion, so from now on we will also, all the boards of directors, of course, contain experts, that is perfectly clear, but they will be appointed by the government. In this sense, it will not come to a conclusion that there would be no agreement, but, I also stressed this at the beginning, when we agree on a time frame, it is necessary to make a decision after the agreement, and when we agree on individual measures, it is always the case, with the individual rules, that we have all those who negotiate and do this all the time, of course the experience to agree on probably some, let's say 90% of the solutions that are acceptable to all, and then there remains 10%, 5% of the solutions that, of course, cannot be resolved by negotiation, because there are partners who are in a partnership with each other in their own territory and then there is, of course, the mechanism that we think the government must have. Of course, the government, I don't know, we don't think that the government here is something extremely evil, something that will work against the interests of the state of Slovenia, we all know that governments are working in the interest of the state of Slovenia, I don't think that there is a person who would think that governments are not working in the interest of Slovenia, I hope that we have been elected to do so, so we think that we will do so with our intervention, of course, and we are responsible for that and we want to do the substantive measures. Here it was stressed that this is not a substantive measure, the honourable Member said that the matter is not substantive, of course we agree, this is an organisational, systemic change, but that the substantive changes will follow when appropriate measures are taken, systemically allowing for the adoption of substantive measures. It is perfectly logical to first change the system's things, that the system can make substantive decisions, that is perfectly clear. There's something else I'd like to say. There's no way this is about underestimating the research sphere. I have worked alone in this research sphere for many years, and I certainly do not think that it should be underestimated. I don't think she's doing any good, and I don't think she's gonna do any good. Researchers are committed to their research and their work is guided, as has been well said, by scientific worlds. The scientific councils are those who make scientific decisions. The autonomy of scientific work is in the autonomy of the choice of research for a particular process and autonomy of decision, data assessment and the like, i.e. in the autonomy of research decisions. Researchers' autonomy is a fundamental matter that is important, but of course the autonomy of the institution is something completely different. The autonomy of the institution is committed to working in accordance with normal standards by its direction. The government is responsible for this because public research institutions or state institutions, if you want to, because they were established by the State, were, as I said earlier, state-owned, but because they lead the research space in the direction that we think the state of Slovenia needs it. And at this moment is the flow of opening up the research space to unify, this is the most important, and to creating conditions that are the same for all. And in our research space, there is not the same condition for all researchers. It was also said that you received a lot of letters and support that was not coordinated with the relevant authorities. I got a lot of support myself, but, interestingly, I got it mainly from younger researchers. Here is one of the important differences in the research sphere, which I know relatively well, that to a large extent the interest of the research sphere, such as in Slovenia and in the world, is very well separated - those interests of the research sphere, which are, as we say, more to the top, and the research spheres that are coming, that is, the young research spheres. And this research area in this discussion has been, I can say, mostly on my side. And here's what we want to give young researchers a little bit more space. This will also be done through our actions, this will be substantive measures, and for this we need ours, as it is called, the opportunity to implement a particular policy. As far as what Mr Moze said may not have been an appropriate discussion. I apologize for calling Dr. Bergant wrong, titled to be the director of the Directorate's duties. I believe that he has done his business well, of course, the assessments can be different. But it is true that it would probably be necessary for ministers to take this time. Unfortunately, it was at that time that an unfortunate event occurred that the Secretary of State was abroad, but I had an obligation from before, and I was unable to attend. I think you are right that we need to take the time and answer to the committees, and I accept this criticism. I believe, however, that the Secretary of State has given his answers in full and correct terms. Of course, performance reviews are individual. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u101	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Forgive me for reminding you, too, that the second time you speak before the National Assembly, if you can please stand up. Thank you very much. I didn't mean to bother you at first in your debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u102	I apologize for this lack of knowledge. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u103	Mr Ljubo Germić has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u104	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. So when I represented the position of the Member Club regarding the law on awards and recognitions for outstanding achievements in research and development activities, I pointed out that we had the text that we had amended on the Committee in the 24 articles of the 27th, and I also expressed the wish that, of course, such a bill should not reflect the situation in Slovenian research and science activities. And I, of course, expressed the hope that we would like better marriage proposals, and that an interested public would also be involved as much as possible in the drafting of these marriage texts. Today, we can assess that we have before us the text of a law which the public concerned actually claims in the common denominator that the text of this law is not good. We are reminded of this by all those who have expressed their views, namely, the whole research sphere. I'm sorry we didn't hear that. Above all, the government has not heard this. The opposition Members, who are trying to make this text different, more acceptable, even on the Committee and today, even after presenting the opinions of the ruling coalition groups, of course, do not expect anything to change. When I listened to you, Mr Minister, and since you speak for yourself, you have been in research activities and since I am also covering a certain part of this area, I have been following your research opus, and I must say that I have never seen in your works such a bad excuse for your work as, for example, the justification that is stated in the very explanation of the law, as well as in the justification that you additionally represent on the home work committee and as you represent it today. How, then, to understand that, of course, when you say that it is not a matter of changing the fundamental principles of this law, which, of course, we in the opposition say is not the case, and when we speak of justification, if we rely on the two basic content that you speak of, it is necessary to introduce a change in order for the public institution to adopt programme guidance in accordance with the guidelines and priorities, the tasks of the Government, which is the founder, also the majority financier of these institutions. You yourself have also said in your explanation today that, of course, certain systemic changes are needed if we are to upgrade in a different way. My belief is that we are doing this in a completely unconstant way, because we have systemic solutions. We have a law on research development activities where we systematically define the role of individuals and institutions in how we visit research development activities. And, of course, the justification set out in this point loses all meaning when we read the third paragraph of Article 7 of this Law, which speaks of setting strategic development areas and national priorities for financing research and development activities through the National Research Development Programme, as well as the content and scope of public service and the scope of research and development training activities for research work at universities, research and development organisations, in order to ensure a link between research work and the economy. Mr Minister, tell me how you will change what is enshrined in this law by changing what is stated in this law, because if you take decisions relating to this law and the law are bound by the institutional acts and the institution's founding acts, all important substantive parts are written down, for which a research institution is then responsible in its work, both in its content and in its finances, etc. And to this you give government approval, i.e. consent or confirmation. This means that the government is involved at the level where it has to assess the consistency of the founding act of a research institution, its programme, its financial operations and you agree to do so. You estimate that this is not enough, you estimate that you should have a majority on the board of directors. Having the majority in which you will have key partners, i.e. contractors, who will represent employees and users as statisticians. You do not want to introduce a width that is so important for research development. Therefore, a critical thought which should be very much weighed in making decisions, for how to understand then the role of an individual coming from the field of users, in order to contribute constructively to some measures which could be and assess, in view of the legislative proposals we receive from this ministry, is further condemned as something that is harmful and does not contribute to the work of a research and development institution. And here's my thought just this way. So it's not that we want to do something at this systemic level, but we want to do something about it. To reconcile something that might have a critical thought in this direction, that maybe someone wouldn't like it. Of course, it is sad, or very harmful, if it did not please the government, so it is a three-partite responsibility, where none of the partners themselves can have such a weight that they can arbitrarily, unwarrantedly, but arbitrarily without a deep, content-based explanation suggest a solution which could then also receive support. No, no, no. This is an arbitrary intervention to provide a majority of the boards where the second opinion can always be voted on by government representatives. I'm trying to discuss and understand your content well. So I'm not just looking for the things that I think are bad, but unfortunately I didn't get neither from the rationale, nor from your additional explanations of that core that would convince me that the debates and the proposal that was put forward on the committee and here today is no better than what you're offering. And what is the message of today's debate to Slovenian researchers? Somehow, in order to have a single research space, they must actually have the freedom of critical thought. What is the message to the partners with whom these institutions participate abroad? What is this message that those who represent these will always depend on the government when they represent their research vision? Here I think it's a big step back. What is the message to the economy for which we want to have a motivational signal in order to believe in the research achievements of our institutions, to co-finance and finance certain research projects that will eventually have the implementation of this technology, for example, in the final product that will have market value. And, of course, here, Mr Minister, even on everything that has been said today, reconsider whether it is not prudent to accept the amendment proposal from one of the opposition parties who is trying to respond to all these dilemmas, to these concerns, and to try to give their text an important role and weight to those for whom, in my opinion, it is impossible to imagine that Slovenia could stand, as a knowledge-based society, in the light of the future. It seems to me that deregulation should continue and that the content of this amendment is a small contribution on this path. If, of course, this amendment is not adopted, I regret to note that we can assess that scientific achievements can be reduced, which of course I would not like to do.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u105	Mr. Slavko Gaber has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u106	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. I myself will support this addition of the Social Democrats and Democrats for a very simple reason, because it seems to me that we are also giving the Minister the opportunity to reconsider what he is doing in an area entrusted with governance. I say that he was entrusted with management because I have a feeling that some people believe that something was given to them and that they are making a final and only substantive decision. For a while, I didn't believe it was a concept. Now, when I hear from the explanation for the explanation, I feel that some believe that the people have trusted them to directly regulate the subsystems in this society. That's how these people understand their mission. So they will tell what is right at the Institute of Joseph Stephen and what is wrong with it. This is a very premodern understanding of this world, it is such a deep belief in the power of the central plan that even those who publicly declared it to be faith did not believe in something like this in this respect, as is now the suit that deals with the interruption of Slovenia at every point. This illusion that the Ministry, on the basis of a provision in the law through the boards of directors, will achieve greater efficiency in linking the economy and research is totally incomprehensible to me. And I think that, as far as illusion is concerned, it would show a break as soon as possible, but if it's hiding another desire, of course, it's another discussion. You, my dear colleague, have enormously realistic possibilities within the framework of the apparatus in accordance with the law for influencing science policy. One is the national programme, which has already been mentioned by colleague Germič, and this law is thus written. The second is the impact on the agency's work programme, which has great autonomy and has no chance. Unless someone believes that the agency will have to be phased out. At the moment, I know that one part of the deal has already been lost by the agency, to start international work. I wonder whether the whole of this agency will disappear slowly because it is more important to you than to the government to manage science policy than these boards. In short, what this authority obviously does not believe is that we live together on this earth and that, if possible, and in important areas, it is necessary to agree on what is the priority, what must be done. Of course, it's too late, it's difficult, and it's annoying to talk to ministers all the time. However, it cannot be the logic of the agreement that we have heard here today - on what we can agree on, let us agree on what is usually the most controversial and someone who decides to go beyond such important partners as, for example, the economy and researchers. But we are talking about the meaning, for example, of research for the economy. There can't be a third person who decides on such a question. I do not understand why we are doing this if you really believe that this service needs to be done in Slovenia to make an important step forward in the application of science in various fields, not only in the economy, but also in the field of the economy, and this is a premodern concept, then it is necessary to connect and deal with this painful business of integration in the coming years, in which you will be obliged to do it as well as possible. But if you believe that instead of the economy, because we listened to it on the board, you better arrange things for the economy, then I wonder what kind of world these arguments are from. For her time, there was a structure in this country that believed that she was so smart and so avant-garde that she knew better than the people what was right. Now we get a ministry that knows better what the economy knows from the institutes than they know from the economy. Answer me this question, if you really believe that the impact of the economy needs to be increased, then get more people from the economy to the committees. There's no other logic here if you want to have pure logic. I know better what the economy needs, and it quickly leads to not only replacing directors, but research will also start ordering them. Why so much power? Except for one reason, if this one is at work, then let's not fool around, you want to take over all the areas in this society's life. That's gonna be bad. Of course, those who wanted to have it ended badly at the level of regime and power. This power was burned because it is obvious that it is not possible to think centrally instead of people how and how individual areas should be developed. You have argued, Your Honorable Fellow Minister, on the Committee, but also here that you need more insight, better coordination between the institutes. I don't understand how you get out of this that the structure of the boards needs to be changed. It is probably necessary to find a point of coordination between the institutes, unless you think that the same people will be sitting in all the institutes on the boards. Four, five, six, or how many of them will have to sit there under the law, will be everywhere, and then a small group of people will dominate the survey in the country. It limits it to horror movies and I don't think that's what you mean. But if you don't think so, then you need to find another way to coordinate work. Perhaps it would appear to meet these people more than once. My experience is that they're talkative. I didn't have these problems to keep things from happening for years. Of course, I didn't have the illusion that it would always be my way. If I had this illusion, then nothing could ever be arranged, and I wouldn't be surprised if nothing could be arranged. Let me put it this way. The LDS and the coalitions in which the LDS participated can be seen to be a number of things, some things very legitimate. In this area, in particular, we went too slowly in the direction in which we went with the 2002 law. We can see that. We can be seen that we are not together with the economy, together with other users and together with researchers, we have found enough effective mechanisms to say today that things are well arranged in this area. However, it is not possible to tell us that the direction we went in is not the right one. If you adopt this law, you will be sure to be told - and we will talk about it in a few years - that you have gone in the wrong direction. I would like to wish you great happiness in finding mechanisms to increase cooperation, how to increase the impact of science in areas such as social. I don't know if we're imagining together how important it would be to find mechanisms to reduce conflicts in society. Those who live in France today know that it is not just an economy in the narrowest sense of the word. But if that conflict were to be prevented there, it is reflected in billions of euros, it is a fact that it has not been prevented. In health, the environment and the economy in the narrowest sense of the word, we need knowledge everywhere. But if it is not agreed by those who produce it and those who use it when assisting the state, then it does not work; it never will and never will be. I think I can say about LDS that we're willing to work with you to find these answers because it's not true that we should just be on the table and we should just take them. It's a pain in the ass. But this short journey to heaven is only a disaster for this country. I hope it ends sooner than it brings it all to hell.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u107	Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Today, we have heard a great number of high-flying words and catchy Flosses about how everything in the field of scientific research is so far in order and how terrible things are going to happen with the adoption of this law. It is significant that what the economy wants, but how the economy should have an impact on research activity, is explained by ideologists and theorists who have never seen inside economies that have never crossed the threshold of this. And I doubt that at least in that part of the research applications relating to science and technical sciences, they know what the situation is in practice. I must say, it seemed very strange to me that colleague Gaber took the case of the Institute of Josef Štefan and taught the minister from there or from the Chemical Institute. And as far as I know, the minister has solid "science citation" indices, unlike many politicians in the previous structure who have always relied on their knowledge. But when some went to check, researchers, and what people in the international sphere mean, what indexes do they have, and they don't find anything. From this point of view, the current structure is also significantly more positioned in this ministry than some of the previous ones. And this terrible halo effect, which is married to these changes, is produced by quasi research artifacts, which you've been very supportive of, funded. Many have been backed up for the week, for the false representation of the public, what authority there are in the field of science, what they have done. Only I don't know their results. I have to say, I know some of these structures. I, too, was a registered researcher, got the highest national recognition for inventions, and I know what the economy wanted then and today.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u109	Mr Jerovšek [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u110	I'm talking about this. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u111	reminding us that we are discussing an amendment [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u112	I'm talking about what this amendment you're proposing can do again. What practice can follow? I do not argue that the current amendment has ensured that everything will be fine in this area. The fact is that the authors of these amendments are mainly linked to that part of the research sphere that literally spent some time at a cost, which built a false image, I don't know what kind of knowledge. And all the others went to the point that others weren't right. On this occasion, I must say that the previous Director of the Institute, Josef Štefan, at a meeting of the Committee on Science and Technology at this competent committee, stated that Slovenia had become a technology colony at the time of the LDS power. Yes, if the director of the Institute has observed such a significant deterioration of all standards, all indices and everything, the conditions of technological Slovenia, how do you have to claim that you had a good system? And he wasn't forced by the current power or anyone. Such a statement was given and said. In fact, in Slovenia you have enabled the closure of the technological and development sectors of many companies, which you have sold cheaply to foreign owners, to the very best, and the research institutes have shut down there. And in these, I have to say, there's a lot of good, a lot of knowledge in these institutes, but there's a lot of completely barren researchers. These barren researchers are the ones who yell the most. And they are, of course, I also understand that all these institutes will not admit on their own and say that something is wrong with their organisation in their structure. However, I agree with the Minister that young researchers, those who have already been established the most, are looking for and expecting changes. You know, there's so much ballast in these years your rule has been created in this area that something absolutely needs to be changed. I can't guarantee that's the best change. It is only everywhere in the world and everywhere in the economy that those who give most of the money actually also regulate governance in some way. You are now speaking with these comments to autonomy as if the research activity of the university, where the city is, is actually an autonomous place of critical thinking. And don't mix these two things up. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] or do not mix these two terms. [[...]] It is a matter of various matters and not of arguments that are particularly at stake when it comes to the university and the creation of the young generation, to meddle in the system when we talk about more effective public institutions in the field of research. This is where efficiency needs to be changed. Here are a number of questions about the design of structures, the expertise of these institutions. And I am firmly convinced that these old authorities within themselves, which will be difficult to change in any way or to prevent them from sitting, if they determine themselves, in these seats, and that they will be able to make any changes. I can't imagine your claim that the government that has to give the money that it costs so much will send some incompetent bad people to the boards of directors who will want to cause some disturbance that will cost the government even more. That's what you're talking about. But I'm very aware that these were the barren parts of these institutes, your allies, yes. That's mutual synergy. Those who did little but lived will now cry out that there is something wrong, that there will be a disaster, a cataclysm. Researchers, on the other hand, feel differently about those who are willing to do things differently. I agree that any other management model may be even better, but you have not proposed a better model with this amendment, or at least a model that would lead to improvement. You'd want to keep these forts any way and I think, again, I say, I see nothing wrong with that, nothing bad. In fact, in the field of research activity there was a change in the previous system every year, there were some [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] And this, I've even been a delegate in some things. [[...]] These were such pointless things, and in one of these you were also then as legislators, and I don't know what is present and you supported it and here went completely barren energy, but any reform was institutional up there on board by the same people. The same thing you've been changing all the time, and telling people how things are gonna get better, nothing's changed. In fact, once something has to be changed, including substantively and I think that there is some possibility that there will be serious progress, a serious step forward, is also with such organisation of the public institutions that are being proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u113	Mr Mitja Slavinec has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u114	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr. President-in-Office, Mr. Secretary-General. When I got acquainted with the proposal for a law, I immediately wondered why this regime was changing, which had been in force so far, and that was why I was even more pleased when I took note of the amendment proposed by colleagues from the Social Democrats. We can hear several times that the country is withdrawing from the economy, but then we wonder why its impact is always greater in the economy. Similarly, the country wanted to withdraw from the public service of RTV, and now we see that it is always less public. I am concerned that this law also means the same in the field of scientific research activities in public institutions, which will make them always less public. I've heard about the failure of the innovation system in our institutions. I fear that, like the country's worst master, it will also become the worst researcher and will be even less innovative. Following the objectives of the Lisbon Strategy is closer integration with the economy, but just on the basis of previous thoughts that the country is a bad host, we cannot expect it to be more effective with its greater impact and, of course, it will be faster to pursue the Lisbon objectives. Research activities have different characteristics and characteristics in different fields, according to different research spheres, and this certainly shows respect and I am also aware that it is difficult to set one single model that will be fair and successful for natural sciences, for social, communist, in short, for all. However, one basic position we can certainly have that policy should try to direct research priorities, research activities, but not to interfere with implementation itself, leadership, because I am concerned that this law will make it exactly the same. I've listened to you very carefully before when you said that most of the agreements were agreed unanimously, 10% remained about 5%, 10% that the majority was agreed. That is also true, but I am very afraid that now that the state will no longer be forced into agreement, it will be quite the contrary that only 10% will remain an agreement, and the rest will simply, after the shortest procedure, be taken into account by the state with researchers how and what. I would understand that this is okay, such a law as it is, there after World War II, when ambition was to work like an atomic bomb, then the state must of course have a key word here and run the institute of Joseph Stefan, run all the chemical institutes and all the scientific research sphere that is focused on this goal, but we do not have these ambitions for a long time, so it would certainly be more confident to trust what it already is, research activities at a level such as has developed, our researchers, at least for some areas can argue this, are supreme and at the top of the world science both by the number of articles and, more importantly, by the number of quotations, as far as their articles, their works elsewhere are used. However we lay down the laws, it will still be in research to make this pencil fall down. In serious science, the facts are independent of political decision-making, so it would make sense that politics does not think that in finding the fundamental truths and, of course, this is the most important part, and that, of course, policy should not interfere with scientific research. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u115	Mrs. Majda Shirtz has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u116	Thank you very much. A few minutes ago, my colleague on the right literally confirmed what the Minister said in other words, kinder and substantially more comprehensively wrapped in words, said that it was a well-loved law between a fellow Member and our party saying that it was actually a lustration law. For the lustration law because we have heard that institutes, scientists are barren, and that they are ballast and are incompetent and barren, then it is necessary to define them differently and to place them on other solid and fertile soils. This can be done by the state and this is a message from this law. And also a former researcher, Comrade Jerovšek, who instead of being ordered by law to land in the economy, has apparently remained and landed in politics. Of course, after the 1980s, there was a very well-preserved book, and I think it's time for the replay to take place, the book of philosopher Foucault, who was talking about control and punishment. And by this law, more and more, and not just you, Mr. Minister, but the government is at all persuading that the country wants every wedding of public life. He wants to land in the economy, he wants to go to school, he wants to go to the media, he wants to go to science, it's only a matter of time before he's in the bedroom. This surveillance is, of course, unproductive, because every control of intellectual potential and to tackle this segment of society is said to be a scientist, as the greatest intellectual and potential that has knowledge, then the control of only this has always been a severe blow back. And when he wanted to be controlled, of course, the system always went down. Today, it has been said, and also the whole discussion and debate at this amendment is being established at this point, when it has been said that Slovenia has not been able and knew to establish a relationship between science and the economy, and that this law, of course, can, with supervision and with the majority of the country in control in the board of directors. Of course, in this context, I say that I support such an amendment because it brings it down. In short, if it was not once possible to establish this relationship between science and the economy, now I wonder whether, once we have a different relationship, the state will establish a relationship between the state. Is it possible that scientists will now carry out research tasks that will be conducted for, I don't know, Petrol, for the Friday climate, for example, for the government, I don't know. In short, if the state once failed to establish this relationship, I do not understand that it can be established in a so-called one-party relationship when the state controls the country. Of course, because, after all, Minister, this is about cleaning, cleaning can take place in many ways, with a change of law. Some cases have been very obvious, fast and, of course, also effective, society has changed, cleaned up and replaced by changes in laws, of course, can be subject to change of commissions, and this can also be seen in science and within the Agency, when commissions that decide on research tasks are drastically modified and supervised and can also be named, as has already happened in the institutes in the field of science, in particular in the field of humanities. These cleaners are short breath. And that is the problem, and that is why I appeal to you once again to reconsider when we vote on this amendment tonight. The minister says that it is necessary to believe in the goodness and not the evil will of the government, that the government thinks everything is right. But Kardelj once considered everything good and worked for the welfare of citizens or then citizens. And how did it end?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u117	Mr. Horvat Joseph has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u118	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State! In history, the Slovenian people have conquered and survives many excellent researchers today. Today, they work at home in public research institutions or other institutions, and many of them work outside. Of course, it would be much better for me if we all worked at home, but for those who work outside, some other time. All of us here surely agree that Slovenian research activities must still be nurtured and looked after, as it should actually mean engine in the development of the Slovenian economy. Of course, I very much agree with Dr Gabro's distinguished colleague that this is not just about research in the technical or natural field, that it is also about research in the humanities. And what's my problem? I am convinced that there is not enough interaction, that there is a lack of business partnership between public research institutions and economic companies. There is a lack of implementation of research results in the economy. And I'm also sure there's too many good research results that end up in files or videos. We will provide prosperity, respected colleagues and colleagues in Slovenia, mainly through the development of the economy and with quality jobs at European level. In itself, prosperity will not provide us with research activities if the economy does not find sufficient opportunities in its results for new products and new technologies. And if there is not enough partnership between public research institutions and companies, then it is the responsibility of the founder to take action. To do so, for example, by reorganising the management body in public research institutions. I am convinced that the direction is the right one and I trust the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology and the Government that it has thought very carefully when explaining the amendment of this law. I also expect more market philosophy in Slovenian public research institutions. It's not good if we're just tied to a budget manger. It should also be placed on the market. No, now the retired university professor has told me something like this. When they threw me on the road, it wasn't until I got a lot of new ideas. Unfortunately, I cannot support the amendment proposed by my fellow Social Democrats. I wouldn't feel good about myself if I didn't have a dominant influence in the administrative body. I don't know if anyone among us is willing to set up a public institution, so any institution, private, if I'm talking about us, and I would like to say that I don't want to influence the functioning of this institution. So once again, unfortunately, I cannot support this amendment. However, I will, of course, support the proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u119	Mr. Milan Petek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u120	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. I will, of course, support the amendment tabled by my colleagues from the Social Democratic Party. I must say, I kind of feel sorry for you, Mr. Secretary. I am sorry for the fact that I would expect this right-hand side, which you belong to, which has also actually led you to the position of minister, to sit here massally and help you enforce this law in a way, so that it can be reasoned, of course, with all the expertise, with all the intelligence that should be gathered here, enforce this law. I'm sorry to say that in some way "reparation" because with such clear and flat-rate discredits, that is to say, by valuing everything that has been and what is good, by valuing the people who have done these good things in the past, I think it's really not an honor and it's really no help, so I feel sorry for you. So why are you running away from me, Mr. Minister, when I'm reading this marriage and what I'm actually announcing? I am convinced that with your work so far, you are a part of the upper Slovenian mind, or of that part of your mind that you could call it the upper Slovenian mind. By turning your back on your colleagues, when you're actually thinking about how to put politics in these institutions, you're actually running away from me the most. I'm ignoring the fact that because of, probably more confusion, you forgot to stand up and express respect. I'm ignoring that, it doesn't have a special weight, but it has a weight on what it does. So this is how you turn your back on those with whom you haven't done it for a long time, those with whom you know the best about them, what it means to be a member of such public institutions, that is, public institutions. And that's where you're running away from me next time. You use the term state institutions, they're already state-owned. You obviously used or adopted the terminology that Prime Minister Janša first used on TV when he accidentally lost state television. Today, obviously no more mistakes, you're using the term state institutions. Mr Minister, what is, of course, the difference between state and public, I am sure that you are fully aware of this and of course I will not give you these explanations, but be careful, for in this way you are only proving in some way what your purpose is, to get these 17, as far as I have information, 17 public institutions from the state level actually into state government. In doing so, you missed a few analogies with some institutions that you could quickly tell them, either public or municipal, but they are not. They're still state or municipal or they're not, they're kindergartens, they're schools, I don't know how Mr Horvat can argue that they have to manage all these public institutions because they're founders or financiers. In fact, you will find this analogy that no one at the lower level has the ambition to master either any school or any kindergarten. Thus, in these institutions, there is a majority or parents or the public, and very few politicians, very few representatives of these founders, and I therefore think that even in these research institutions there is no fear that institutions would not have performed their functions, which, according to my opinion so far, they have performed very, very solidly, in that some have not actually succeeded in this time of year, so they will adjust or actually come into a position as they were two years ago. As far as I'm concerned, God help you who do not have the support of the coalition in such a way that you can reasonably try to explain to us why you actually went into this story and it seems right to use what the Socialist Group has offered you to convince at least a few of your Members that you were wrong to have the arguments that the opposition has listed for you today so that you can actually get out of this situation most elegantly, which I am sure you do not, therefore, believe that it is good. That's why you have to do this one more time.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u121	The word is given by Dr. Paule Gantar. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u122	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I will, of course, support the amendment, because it has actually tried to eliminate this Article, Article 1 in this Act, which, in my opinion, is unacceptable and will cause great damage to research activities in Slovenia. I remember years in college, this is long ago, when my fellow students, my fellow students, are quite famous and famous professors, as Dr. Veljko Rus taught that individual social sub-systems, when, say, cultural, educational, research, economic, that these subsystems have relative autonomy and specific and also relative autonomous logic, that we do not simply need these subsystems, in this case research, to simply submit to another subsystem, so let's say a political subsystem. If, for example, the economic subsystem aims to maximise profits, the research subsystem shall have the aim of maximising new knowledge, new technological solutions and new applications. If this also contributes to maximising profits, it is so much better, but if it is directly controlled by another system, whether one or the other, especially political, it is bad for research. That is why, of course, I am concerned exactly what my colleague Jerovšek has pointed out, that he knows who the barren researchers are and that he will say as a politician which are the barren researchers and politics will tell which people need to be removed from the research system, from research institutions, because researchers themselves cannot do this because they cannot appreciate themselves because they cannot analyze themselves because they cannot compare research projects, tasks, achievements and solutions. And that's what I'm really worried about right now is that politics is going to define what's good and what's bad and what's bad and what's bad and what's bad. Of course, Slovenia is not a technological colony, even though it was said by the former director of the Institute, Joseph Štefan, whom I value very much and I know very well. Slovenia is in a wide range of areas in the research summit, and it is also at the summit of certain technological innovations. It would be good if there were more, and we all want it to be more, and we want it to be better. Of course, we are a small country, and we are probably never going to have all the segments of research as strongly developed as we have large countries and large international corporations. This fact, that after a long and long time, condemns Slovenian research, that it is bad, inappropriate, that researchers are also barren, that politics will solve it, of course this logic is unacceptable, and we must actually face this logic today and prevent it from being enforced. The government by this law is actually quietly becoming the owner, not just the founder of institutions that are so powerfully subjugated. Instead of partnership, we will get domination and control, and this will reduce the autonomy of this sphere and probably also creativity and results. This has already happened in Slovenia and the price of this was relatively high. Don't let my respectable colleague Jerovšek tell me about the PORS and I don't know what, because I have to say that I have some references to not criticising the PORS 25 years later, but when they were, and when we also paid a certain price for such criticism. We can look at the references if you want. And in the end, what really bothered me was that, in fact, the Prime Minister and the Prime Minister didn't know what was public and what was state. To simply align and bring under the terms of the state also all public. That state television is the same public television and state institutions are the same public institutions as my colleague has already talked about. Of course not. If that were the case, we should stop the notion of civil society, we should abolish the whole area of autonomous spheres of social action, from the church, if you want, to the smallest alternative group. In fact, we should say that the whole world has focused on politics and that politics is the one and the country that gives real meaning and meaning to everything that exists. The logic behind this is scary, mentality, not just logic. This logic is weak and the need to control everything that can be controlled and that is not yet mastered. And this salt, this desire to control everything, it will come back to you sooner or later. Today's society and today's systems in society do not allow this, and so should politics. That is why this amendment must be adopted and prevented from this great disaster, which is promised to the Slovenian research sphere. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u123	Thank you very much. The word is "ma'am mag." Majda Potter. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u124	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I would like to use a few numbers to complement what I began to prove in the opinion of the Group of Members. If we take both conditions into account from the government proposal, then the government or the founder will appoint three to six members to the boards of directors. Thus, operators and users will have one or two representatives on the Management Board. If we carry out the operation even further for the amendment proposed by the Social Democrats, the representation is more unbalanced: the founder of one or three can appoint and performers or users have two or three representatives, on the condition that the implementation and user side are equal, while the condition for representatives of the founder is that they do not have a majority in the public research institution. In two cases, the three-partite structure of the Management Board would be completed by six or nine members of the Management Board. This is no longer what was recorded in the current law in Article 33 as tripartite in all cases, but would point out that Article 33, paragraph 4, states that the composition, method and task of the Scientific Council or the Professional Council shall be determined by the statute of the public institution in accordance with the Act establishing it. It is said that the founder is also responsible for amending the statutes in accordance with the law. If it were the will of the government, the current government - the founder - to handle it, I would. What is surprising is that, without any practical experience, an administrative board structure automatically receives the label unacceptable, poor, ineffective, while the same government and the same coalition, which is now so involved by a different board structure, would like to draw attention to the definition or principles that this government or coalition has expressed either in the coalition contract or in the subsequent speech of Prime Minister Janez Janša, where it has stressed that the greater role of the economy in the knowledge that financial investment in science must also be greater and in the research of the economy, while reducing the possibility of participation in the boards is indeed not the most credible and most convincing. There will probably be a number of changes in the national research and development programme if things go this way, as announced in both of these acts, or in the direction of the government, or in the coalition contract, where applied sciences or research are to take precedence over fundamentals. What the European Union notes if it wants to become competitive if it wants to take on a leadership role, then if I have listened to the Commissioner for Science and Research, it will also have to invest significantly more in basic research. I would not have dared so much with my left hand on researchers to strike and declare them unsuccessful, to be ineffective, to say no to any other mark, but probably those who have a year more than those who have written to the distinguished Minister and supported his changes. If I remember correctly, Mr Minister said that he had received support from a number of young researchers. What could also be seen is that efficiency is, above all, an economic category. The criteria by which we measure efficiency are important. But at least for the Social Democrats, it is probably necessary to point out at this point that the social model of society, even when it comes to research activity, is of great importance to us, and this is an integrated model. When I was talking about partnership, I was thinking that all human resources should be integrated, that better results could be expected when they feel involved in the activity, that they have the ability to influence, decide, to inform. Surprisingly, it is from this scientific research area that warnings come that some research programmes have already been abolished. At the same time, it can be observed in a public hearing that it has received financial support from a particular scientific resource, which cannot be claimed to be so different or deficient for its purpose, that it has had to dissuade any of the project’s researchers for years. I'm talking about projects that took place at the Faculty of Social Sciences that dealt with parenthood and family. And on the other hand, I'm talking about a project that the Franciscan order has declared. It is not possible to shake the feeling that some things in the paradigm need to be completely changed now. I don't understand the term "supporting", "stately" differently than was previously explained by honourable Member Gantar. In fact, the state, in contrast to the public-state, in this case rather governmental than anything else and not stately contrary to the local. And it is not always possible to equate the marking with the public interest. And for a whole range of things where institutions act as some kind of supervisory authority, I say some kind of supervisory authority for what is ordered by government policy is in such a composition of administrative committees as are now proposed, but it is hard to believe that they will gain greater credibility.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u125	Mr Matjaž Han has the floor. You're giving up? Then Mr. Tomaž Strabe.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u126	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! A similar debate is under way as it was during the debate on the RTV law. It means changing the composition of that institution in the institution that decides and assumes responsibility from the institution that it established. At the outset, I would say that here in this Chamber, if they were all, I think there is no one who has as much experience in the scientific development field as the proposer does, Mr Minister. I don't think he's here. But if there's anyone, I apologize. Mr Minister has proposed this change. Probably from his long experience and from the references he has and from his knowledge, he is competent to be trusted, we trust that he has taken over and decided to propose such a change. Moreover, the responsibility is now quite clear. The responsibility lies with those who, on behalf of the founder, decide on the policy and the results of the work of such public institutions. I believe that the Minister is well aware and that the Government will also have to make a responsible decision. Otherwise, like the current situation, and all of you, those who have proposed this amendment, are disturbed by this change in composition, which will result in a number of other changes, particularly in the area of those who will carry out the tasks of the Management Board and the tasks that follow and will be recorded in the National Research Programme. I believe that a large part of those, not only those responsible for carrying out matters as executive, say, the directors of the institution, but especially researchers expect such changes to be able to prove themselves in this country, in these research institutes, not only by quoting their scientific achievements and research within institutions, but mainly with those works or fundamental or applied achievements that will prove themselves on the market. But in a challenging, competitive market. You know, Slovenia and Europe also have a major problem that is, in fact, very rare opportunities, or a significant lack of opportunities, especially for young researchers when they start their careers in those most creative years, and just hungry for research that not only fits their ambitions or personality traits, but mainly by proving themselves. And those who have opportunities, either family or any other, or hope, often go where these options are. That's mostly -- we know where. Where society is the most research and development oriented - America. Unfortunately, this needs to be made clear. So I don't see any other problem here than repeating, scaring with different things, I would say directly, with different flossules, that now the world is going to collapse, because that founder who is responsible for all of this is actually taking on definitive responsibility now. And this is actually a huge responsibility that the proposer, the government, the ministry, assumes. This responsibility is not only on the Minister, because in our society the main problem is that there is not enough human capital that is capable of undertaking serious scientific and applied research. I'm afraid that's how it is. And there are two ministers who will have to make major changes in the values of this society, which have gone in the wrong direction in these decades, namely the Minister of Education and Education and the Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology. Because if the values in these young people do not change, there will be as many highly educated and as many real researchers as we have in Slovenia today. And I'm not just talking about numbers, I'm talking about the results of these researchers. Unfortunately, that's the way it is. We always take just a few shiny cases that have worked. However, we need a host of such shining examples to jump into the knowledge society and so forth. Now that we have read that Slovenia has reached over two million, at the same time we realize that we have significantly fewer children in primary schools - in our congregation and in our school 30% fewer children in the first grade of primary school than we did ten years ago, I wonder how we will be able to go to a knowledge society without importing educated people. And this Slovenia, which is at a significantly lower level than, say, some Sweden, where I know the situation in the Malmoe-Koebenhaven region, where in this Swedish region every fifth highly educated person from abroad is a foreigner with his family. The restructuring of their economy by abandoning shipyards, heavy industries and so on is possible only with new forces, with new knowledge, with better products and services, so that they can go, as is the case with the government's development strategy, when they try to generate income not only for competitiveness, but also for the protection of those acquired social rights. And we've already turned around. I could still say a lot, and the fact is, by such a decision and by a competent man who has good behaviour and knowledge and is a top scientist, that in this way he assumes a clear responsibility of the founder in these institutions. And this clear responsibility means that, of course, it also has a mandate given to it in the elections, which means a substantial change and an essential opportunity in this direction. Of course, as I have already said, this is not the only thing that needs to be done in order for the development research sphere to be successful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u127	Thank you. Mr. Kokalj Anton has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u128	Thank you very much. The bill, I think, is trying to normalise the situation in the article on which the amendment is tabled, which is currently abnormal in Slovenia, not only in the field of research institutions, but also in other public institutions, for example in the field of secondary and primary schools, where we have a case where the founder does not have the main word, which is abnormal. This means that the responsibility taken by the establishment of either the municipality or the State is not harmonised or not in line with the competence it should have. I think this is perfectly normal, as the Minister has proposed in this law and, of course, I absolutely disagree with this amendment. I do not understand why to maintain such an abnormal situation, to operate our sociological experts with different deadlines, which sometimes are, I would say, stained with Slovenian science, which has been and is still heavily financed by public funds and toying with public, state, government, civil society, which in Slovenia is not even remotely comparable to the normal concept abroad, seems to me to be practically humiliating. Before that, a public television case was given. If we say public in Slovenia, I don't know, I really don't know what that means. It could mean a lot of things. The public house in Slovenia means a lot, and the state house clearly means that this is a matter of which state is the founder and which country is responsible. Therefore, I do not think it matters at all now whether it is called public or state, it is important who is the founder, who is the main financier and who is responsible for the operation of a public institution. In this case, it is clear that the Government is responsible on behalf of the State. The concept doesn't matter here. Any company would set up its own research institute [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u129	Mr. Kokalj has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u130	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u131	Once again, I would like to point out that Mr Bones has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u132	whether this company would allow experts to decide on the policy of the research work of this institute. [[..]] Experts are there at work to do what the founders tell them to do. It's the same situation. Nor can a teacher at school teach what he thinks he should teach by determining what he needs to learn, nor does it interfere with the autonomy of his professional work. That's the way it is in this case. If the majority of the representatives of the founder are on the Management Board, this does not have an absolute impact on the autonomy of the researchers' work, nor on the policy in this way that the expertise would be reduced. Of course, it is not acceptable for experts to do just what they want to do. If I make a very specific case. I would like to ask representatives of the previous government what they have achieved with these public research institutes following a decision in Lisbon in connection with the Lisbon Strategy in 2000. This must also be one of the instruments and the result should be somewhere. I understand the current government's proposal in this context to try to achieve the results of the Lisbon Strategy also by better managing these public research institutions to achieve a slightly better result than it has achieved in the past five years. From this point of view, I must say that this is the right approach for which the government is responsible and is the only logical step, so of course I cannot support this amendment in any way by any logic.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u133	Mr. Ivan Grill has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u134	Thank you for your word. We have discussed this very much already on the Committee on Higher Education, Science and Technology. There I have witnessed many of the debates of fellow Members and Members. I wanted to check all this stuff out then in some way even with the people that were most concerned. I had the opportunity to be present at one of the most successful events or among the most successful companies in Slovenia, this is Krka, where more than 40 prominent scientists, experts who have contributed greatly to the development of this company in the past. In the debate that was before me, I also discussed this possibility or this bill with some of them. I was pleasantly surprised that practically all of them received the answer: "Science and research are not meant for themselves." It's been a while since something like this has happened, because this demagogic thing that's been introduced here, it's not true. The country will really have the opportunity to put people on the board of directors, but these people will not be politicians, I believe that this will be respected experts from the institutions of the economy, who will certainly contribute to development and also probably determine which research is needed in Slovenia. This has convinced me further, and I am happy to support this law, or I will not support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u135	Mr. Aleš Gulič has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u136	Dear President, esteemed colleague and colleague! I will support this amendment, especially because it contributes to this or is some kind of security guard that preserves as much autonomy as research. I also believe in these, for example, personal well-intention, also Professor Zupan, whom I value as an expert in his field. I also know how much he is valued among his colleagues, but on the other hand, I do not trust the country as a collection of institutions, and therefore I think it is very important that research activities, higher education, etc. maintain as much autonomy as possible. Is it possible to mix the state and the public? In fact, this is how these things get mixed up in practice, and because they like to mix, it is good that they are separated. Of course, Mr Kokalj correctly notes that the state house is not a public house and therefore the continuation of his sentence cannot be that it is not important but important. And the public toilet isn't the same as the state toilet. Of course, we can play with words indefinitely here, but I don't want to talk about it. There's something else I'd like to say. If they will, of course, not the method of research, but also prescribe the results of research slowly, and if everything from basic will go into application because it is more important in the short term and can even be placed within a given mandate, then in Slovenia it is very bad for us. We will have, say, at the end of the escape of important researchers, new, young people who will go where it will be more autonomous. And we're going to lose our big brains, and we're going to have only a small one in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u137	The word is "ma'am mag." Spending. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u138	Thank you. My failure to adopt the proposed law is not intended to undermine in any way the scientific integrity of the distinguished Minister. But Professor Dr. Zupan is here because he's a minister. The ministerial function is a political function and it with its solutions points to political solutions. I also find it completely unacceptable and impossible to do what has recently become normal practice: the country is a company, the institution is a company, the school is a company. I'm sorry, it's not. Because the school is a public institution, the research institute is a public institution, it is not a company, it works according to different principles. Quality criteria, for performance, grow from other criteria, from other assumptions, whose economy, efficiency is also one of the criteria, or have also measured, but not the essential criteria. Scientific, research achievements are also measured by values, by humanistic dimensions. And what I hear here is that the criterion should be only what is good on the market and, if possible, on the American market, I am deeply concerned about all those research projects that do not have a market orientation, but are essential for the existence and development of the country and nation. It may sound pathetic to someone, but it will not be pathetic in any of the following contexts that we will talk about, perhaps in the context of tomorrow's national celebration at the Maister's Memorial. Some things I find really unacceptable when we talk about such important things as the composition of the board of directors of the public research institute. Public interest is a criterion here, and this is defined in the national, research and development programme. This will be re-accepted by the National Assembly. In the National Assembly there are MPs and Members elected by the coalition voters and opposition voters. And, excuse me, the equation to work on that what is now government is also the will of the whole people, forgive me, it is not. And it would be good to remember that famous Indian chief's speech about how we got the land on loan. And it would probably be good if some policy ever thought about getting the voter confidence on loan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u139	Dr. Gaber, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u140	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u141	Excuse me, replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Although not mentioned by name, America was indirectly mentioned and its success [[....]] [[Laugh.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u143	It's a replica. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u144	Mr President, I just want to say two sentences.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u145	I'm sorry, I didn't hear if America was right, but to be mentioned by you, I didn't hear.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u146	I'm saying I wasn't, but I was talking about America in my own debate. If you'll allow me a replica, if not a replica. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u147	I'll give you a brief replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u148	Thank you very much. I just wanted to tell Mrs. Potter what's bad if she's a minister of politics. This, in my view, is nothing bad, even very good, that the Minister with such references is also a politician and that he will contribute to this society through political decisions. And another thing is, it bothers you that companies are supposed to be companies, and they're not supposed to be business. See, this is why it is in Slovenia and also in Europe so that entrepreneurship and politics are not bad. Even the opposite. In R & D institutions, those who are entrepreneurial enough and who have, in particular, entrepreneurial and real, real cooperation with the economy is also the most successful. I am glad that one company, such as Sandos, which includes Lek, a shareholder company, has opened three top technology plants in our municipality over the past two years, which are built with the help of the capital of the entire multinational, but the technology used, and the projects used, and a large part of the equipment, unfortunately not the most difficult, originates from Slovenia. And projects and knowledge originates from Slovenia. And that's what we should want, not just another sentence, Mr. Chairman! But not that one of the most capable young students at the end of the study goes to work in Germany, in Muenchen, I know this man, and in Germany works for the American corporation. [[...]] [[...]] That's what we don't really want. We want something completely different, Europe and Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u149	Mr. Gaber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u150	Dear Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. See, it is necessary to look for mechanisms that allow for a partnership in this area, that was my point, by which I try to justify my vote that the boards at the institutes are partnered. There was no level of partnership that we needed, but if you throw people out of some bodies, if you don't put serious weight in your bodies, then they don't really take their membership in them, if you can always vote them out, then they don't take responsibility for themselves. And Slovenia is in some way in a worse position than it could be, because we are responsible, we do not give people to those points where we should really take this responsibility. In a way, we allow ourselves to be lazy, irresponsible at this point. And the fact that we give someone absolutely certain responsibility, dear fellow Zupan, with all due respect for your scientific effluence, and here you are in this area, where it is not a question of scientific work, but of political responsibility, you are imposing too much responsibility. The state takes our responsibility, which should be shared with users, who should share it with scientists. We're giving them an alibi here. This has been said many times today, and now the state will take full responsibility for us. As a politician, I would never hope to say such a thing to the scientific sphere, for they will immediately thank me for taking full responsibility for myself. Why would they have it if I'm taking it on myself? That's a mistake. A mistake, I'm sorry, regardless of any other reputation. This is another typical proof that cultural capital cannot be represented in this way between areas. You may be a great musician, but that doesn't mean you play football well. And someone can be very good in some area, and there's nothing special about another area. He can make a big mistake there. We should work together because working together in this area is a very fundamental feature of the public. What's the term "public"? Mr Kokalj has a problem with these internationally established concepts. This is a field in which it meets stately with social, group and individual. But it's a state field. There are no big secrets. If we think that everything needs to be concentrated in one hand, then the term "public alien" is ours. Those who meet in this field also assume responsibility for what happens in it, and this society needs more and more public fields, rather than reducing these fields. It's okay, take all the responsibility of yourself, just remember that you took it, that someone won't be guilty, that the previous regimes won't be guilty, the weather, the gods, and, I don't know, who else will be unfavorable. No, it's the wrong system! It won't all go well, but it won't evolve optimally. You promised better, don't take the wrong way.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Mr. Kokalj, you have a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u152	Because I was mentioned. I don't have a problem with the public. I think you have a problem. I have only explained that the state is responsible because it is the founder, not the system takes responsibility, but the state is already responsible. Now I ask, who takes responsibility for what you said, unfortunately partnership is not, that these institutions, if I understand you correctly, are less effective than they could be, less than they could expect under a law like this. Who's responsible now? I think that the state, the one that is the founder, even if it has gone to the administrative bodies for partnership, and that this does not reduce responsibility. That's not what I'd say. If experts want to convince those who are responsible, they will have to work even better in administrative bodies if they do not already have the required voting words of users and researchers, as is the case now.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u153	Thank you. Would you like to discuss it, Dr. Gaber? You've got about a minute. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u154	I'll answer because I think it's right to answer. Look, the responsibility in the field is shared, it's an axiom to discuss it. Of course, political responsibility to Parliament is the responsibility of the government and the state. But this is not the only responsibility in this society. Social systems don't work by going all the way to the commander. It's not a command system, it's not an army, but everyone has to take their share of the responsibility. Although our science is solid, there are people who have led it in this sensitive area. My colleague Zupan has always been quite high in the hierarchy of scientific governance in this area, and I think that the Vice-President was the most important body in this area. They have taken some steps forward, too, I hope, with the help of Parliament and the country. Is there anything else that needs to be done? Yeah. But just walking through these achievements of this science, it's too easy to say how our science is not worthy of respect or anything like that, it's too easy. I propose a constructive discussion on the search for mechanisms that will improve this further. Sustaining means a shadow for those who should otherwise participate in decisions. It's not just an opportunity, it's a commitment to them. Don't untie that sphere of responsibility. I don't think it's wise. But it will be as you say.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u155	The word is "ma'am mag." Spending.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u156	Thank you. Last week, I attended an 80-year-old National Affairs Institute. There it was possible to hear what was too often in our minds that science was, that it was the profession that helped us to make decisions also to politics. When I listen to this debate today, and to the niche with which you are following the achievements of the institutes and the arrangements so far, I am amazed by the disdain that is wrought from all of this. Demeaning achievements, however, never contributes to development. And I understand today's work to find a solution to how it would be better in the future if we are not satisfied with what we are now doing. But what I am listening to and what is being offered is a step backwards in my eyes and in the eyes of the Social Democrats, because ethatisation in this society in the past is an experience, but an experience that is not considered a positive experience. So we have done with it and we are working to find solutions now that would mean integration, not exclusion. And in an administrative committee composed as it is now speaking, it is not possible to prove or find elements of integration, but elements of exclusion. I have previously proved with numbers, and that is all the Social Democrats would like to achieve, because I am sorry, entrepreneurship can also have a negative impact in addition to positive importance. As with the property or the fact that someone is found, in addition to being positive, can also have a negative impact on the enterprise that has ever been discussed in relation to the public institute, entrepreneurship has no first purpose. But it certainly seems to me that scientists, researchers are certainly entrepreneurial people, because they sometimes know from nothing, as we say, even what to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u157	The list of panellists is exhausted. Anybody else want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u158	Thank you very much. I'm sorry again for not getting up for the first time. I kind of missed it. Although I usually have to sit down, I'm getting up. As I have heard, this debate seems to me that in some context it may have gone in the wrong direction. In fact, it prevailed on the part of the esteemed opposition in some way, or association with the country, as Kardelj has it, and that name was also said. In a way, we believe that the country should be associated with names such as Kennedy, Plato, Pitamic and Mr Pučnik. These are names that give the country some importance, which is of course noble and in some sense we want to do so. That's what I think the country does. However, in the substantive work, of course, we must be aware that what we are doing now is essentially what we want to achieve with this amendment so that we can regulate the conditions for scientific work. So it's terms. Many times my work has been mentioned, thank you very much to all who have appreciated it nicely. However, here it is necessary to say that in this work I have come to know this organization, I can say in essence, so I know that we are not taking advantage of all the potential. Slovenia is small [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u159	Mr. Minister, you don't have the time. It was just a minute 33 seconds. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. The amendment will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 18th agenda or at the latest at 20.45. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 12. Period of the day - this is on a defensive proposal for a law on amendments to the law on the provision of navigational services for air traffic, a short procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to a government representative for further explanation. Good afternoon, Minister. You have the floor. Please. Mr. Minister Janez Bozič, Minister of Transport.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u160	Good day to you all, Mr Vice President and Members and Members of Parliament. The Government has drawn up a proposal for a law amending the Law on the provision of air navigation services with the aim of ensuring the long-term flexible and stable functioning and provision of air traffic services for air telecommunications and air information services. In order to achieve this objective, it is necessary to change the cash flow of the charges charged on air routes by becoming a direct source of revenue of the public company Air Traffic Control Slovenia, d.o.o., in the share represented by the revenues from the services provided. This and the implementation of the European Union rules on the single European sky are also linked to the proposed amendment of the competent authority for managing the cost base for the Republic of Slovenia. According to the new report, this is the Civil Aviation Administration of the Republic of Slovenia. The changes regarding the conclusion of the collective agreement and the shortcut for the public company Air Traffic Control Slovenia, d.o.o., are proposed for reasons of simplification of the public company Air Traffic Control Slovenia, d.o.o. With the adoption of this law, the state budget will be burdened by approximately 2,730 billion tolars, as is evident from the 2006 draft budget, which is already under consideration in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. [[..]] We believe that the proposed funding system for air navigation services has sufficient reserves to ensure the long-term stable development of public service providers, as well as their material and organisational bases. As regards the preparation of the cost base for the Republic of Slovenia for 2006 and the related calculation of the unit price, we find that the unit price has fallen from 73.78 euros for 2004 to 57.13 euros for 2006. The decrease is approximately 11% year-on-year. With regard to the explanation of the financial implications of changes in the law, in particular the need to introduce so-called summer charges, I would like to add that we expect that their introduction, which is under preparation, will not have a significant impact on the overall cost of air traffic management in the Slovenian airspace, as we see a slower increase in the cost of air traffic management compared to the increase in the number of services units. As stated in the Transport Committee report, the Transport Committee has adopted several amendments that have complemented the proposed text. With regard to the amendments adopted by the Committee on Transport, we have no comments and we agree with them. Thank you so much for saying that.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u161	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Transport Committee as the parent working body. I ask the chairman of the Committee, Mr Frank Kangler, to present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u162	Thank you for your word. Dear Members and Members! At its 10th meeting, the Transport Committee held a second reading of the proposal for a law amending the Act on the provision of air navigation services submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for legislative procedure by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. As the legislative and legal service has pointed to the conclusion of a collective agreement at two levels, i.e. at the level of individual navigation services and even at the level of the company, the legislative and legal service has assessed that such conclusion [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] a view of the scope of the agreed rights and obligations would not, in all likelihood, contribute to the resolution of trade unions’ differences. [[...]] With the proposed amendment to this Article, these funds are also the revenue of the state budget, i.e. they are the earmarked resources of the state budget. With the proposed amendment to this Article, these funds are no longer the revenue of the budget, but the revenue of the public undertaking. At the time of the proposed solution, it was also noted that there was a lack of clarity regarding the State's commitment to Erocontrol. The following comment was made on Article 5, which raised the issue of the explicit reference to the transfer to date of the Ministry of Management and Maintenance of the common cost base for the establishment of the competent navigation services of the Republic of Slovenia Civil Aviation Authority. The point was made to take account of the provisions of the State Administration Act, which provides that the authorities in the Ministry are not specifically mentioned, but given the specific role that this Administration has in the performance of the tasks imposed on the State by the EU Regulation, it is, of course, appropriate for the Administration to become [[....]] [[Incomprehensible.]] the text of the law. Following an introductory explanation by the Transport Committee in accordance with Article 126, 131 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee held a debate and a vote on the individual articles of the draft law. Mrs Pecanova has tabled an amendment to Article 2, Article 3, of the law. However, the Transport Committee adopted its proposal for an amendment to Article 2. The Transport Committee has also adopted the following amendments, which have been aligned with both the legislative and legal services and with the Government on Articles 3, 5, 6 and 7, and having regard to the adoption and adoption of all articles and amendments, the Committee has decided that the law is appropriate for further consideration and adoption.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u163	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Janko Weber has the floor on behalf of the Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u164	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to the Minister with colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law amending the Law on the provision of air navigation services is governed by the financing of this service, in such a way that fees will no longer be the revenue of the Republic of Slovenia’s budget, but directly of the company. Of course, it is important that these fees are properly shared then for the financing of navigation services, part of the administration of the Republic of Slovenia for civil aviation, for the costs of the air meteorological service and, last but not least, for international obligations, this is the coverage of the obligations to Eurocontrol. This is a key change. In addition to this amendment, an attempt has also been made under the law to eliminate disagreements with trade unions, namely workers of these services by entering into collective agreements at the level of navigation services and even at the level of the company. We have considered this duality to be inappropriate, so we have also proposed an amendment to delete such solutions, because we believe that there is a need to establish common positions on both the rights and obligations of the employer and on the workers' side. However, with the proposed amendment of the law, we would like to draw attention to a very important fact that is not adequately taken into account and resolved in the practice of the implementation of the Aviation Act so far, and not in this proposal to amend the Navigation Services Act. The Ministry of Transport runs and maintains a common cost base for the design of charges for air navigation services. The cost base for the Republic of Slovenia is then approved by the Minister. This is what the amended bill, which was adopted by the mother's working body, states. In doing so, we need to know that Slovenia has a national airline which is facing very severe competition, expensive fuel in Slovenia and well-known major financial problems. If we add to this the potential overexpenditure of operating costs of one of the smallest flight management and control services, an even greater economic inefficiency of the Slovenian carrier could occur. Therefore, the proposed amendment to the law should also include an assessment of the costs related to the operation of the national carrier. To make it even clearer, under the current law, a public undertaking must draw up a 5-year business plan to ensure the safety, regularity and smoothness of air traffic, develop air traffic control services and comply with the guidelines of the national civil aviation development programme. And it is the national civil aviation development programme that is the key document in this area that we are missing, so we are the social democrats who think that we should urgently adopt a national civil aviation programme, so that a public undertaking can draw up an appropriate business plan and that the Minister has the basis for a cost base for the Republic of Slovenia to create charges for air navigation services. Without taking into account all the factors in the field of civil aviation, the sectoral resolution of navigation services' policies is sometimes extremely problematic precisely because in other sectors of civil aviation we can achieve quite the opposite effects. And if the funds of fees are already being pooled after the new whole in this public company, then this should certainly also affect the more efficient work of these services, including the rational work of these services and, consequently, the reduction of the costs of our civil carrier. We believe that this is one of the shortcomings of the law, or the law is acceptable.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat, New Slovenia, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u166	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Mr. Secretary of State with his associates. Initially, I would like to say that in the New Slovenia Group we will support the amendment of the law on the provision of air navigation services. We estimate that the basic purpose, namely to ensure the safe and efficient delivery of navigation services, is achieved by the proposed amendment of the law. Quality delivery of such important services as navigation services can only be achieved through careful planning and implementation of the necessary updates, and repeated factors need to be addressed, of course. Restricting the financial resources of a public undertaking. Air traffic control of Slovenia, d.o.o. It benefits from an activity carried out on behalf of the Republic of Slovenia and, nevertheless, must be provided in an appropriate form in order to ensure safety, it is certainly a factor which should not affect the functioning of air navigation services or to infuse services due to unnecessary indebtedness. Our support for the new law is based on some of the good solutions that the law brings. These are: a direct and stable source of revenue provided by the public company Air Traffic Control Slovenia, d.o.o. for the provision of services and the negative effects of a rigid financial system are eliminated; the specificities of the work processes of each particular air navigation service in the conclusion of the enterprise collective agreement are taken into account; the operation and presentation of the public undertaking is simplified. Moreover, a more flexible way of financing ensures the accelerated development of air navigation services and removes backlogs in this area for neighbouring countries. The adoption of the proposed amendments to the Act on the provision of air navigation services means a reduction in the revenue and expenditure of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia in respect of the 2005 budget by approximately 2.7 billion tolars and will not have a direct impact on the total amount of airway charges, that is to say the price per unit of service. As it is said, the New Slovenia Group will unanimously support the proposal for a law amending the law on the provision of navigation services. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u167	Thank you. Mr Franz Kangler has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u168	Thank you for your word. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will also support this law, the law amending the law on the provision of navigation services. The law has prepared a good and effective public company Air Traffic Control Slovenia, d.o.o. with a seat in Ljubljana. The essence of amending the law following a reduced procedure is that the fees charged for crossing the airspace of Slovenia are directly charged and transferred to that company and no longer to the state budget. Such a system of financing for air traffic control companies is in line with European standards and standards applicable within the European Union. It is important that they thus have a permanent source of funding, which is a stable potential for the further development of the infrastructure itself within that company. We all know and know that the infrastructure in the field of electronics and technology develops from year to year, from month to month, and that it is also necessary to develop electronics and techniques. This ensures that, with some of its own resources, the company can follow such safety of the flight of the airspace of Slovenia, so thorough and effective and stable control of airspace in the Republic of Slovenia and in some ways by law ensure the stability of the company's operations and certain investments that are necessary to follow certain standards that are normal in the European Union. In the Slovenian People's Party, we will fully support the proposed law.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u169	Thank you. Mr Zmago Jelinčič has the floor to the nobles on behalf of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Have a nice hello to you all. The proposal for a law amending the law on the provision of air navigation services in short-term procedures has actually come to the National Assembly late, could have come substantially earlier, in the end it would have saved those restless unions that have made major moves and all together on their side. To some extent this law regulates everything together and even though it is questionable whether this model is really the best, but it will show up later, it is more debate between experts than anything else. Basically, we belong to the Slovenian National Party that the law is adequate enough to support it. But there are other issues here, and in the end it is said that Slovenia should plan about €60 million of high investment in the new control centre, and we are moving away from the "Single European Sky" project, which in fact dictates a reduction in the number of control centres in Europe. By comparison, there are 20 control centres in the United States and significantly greater traffic in the larger area, while we have more than 60 in Europe. In addition, we must be aware that Slovenians have in the upper segment over 9,000 metres, in fact, one of the smallest airspaces in the world. And with certain errors, if we are not careful, it may happen that in short all the "major airlines" will pass through Slovenia, which means we will lose those fees that the Republic of Slovenia should receive. It might also make sense to look at some IATA acts supporting "Single European Sky" and these starting points. Perhaps it would make sense to correct another matter, but I think that now the matter as it is, is better than the one before, corrects certain matters and regulates them. Or we may have to adopt another change of law in a year or two. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Mr Zvonko Černač, SDS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u172	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Today, we have heard several basic solutions to the amendment of the law, both by the representative of the proposer and the chairman of the home committee, and those amendments adopted by the committee. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, too, we have supported the amendments on the Transport Committee and we also support the adoption of a law amending the Law on the provision of air navigation services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u173	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles. That is why I am concluding the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. In accordance with the timing of the meeting of the assembly, we will vote today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 18th item of the agenda or at the latest at 20.45 hours. This concludes this agenda item. Thank you very much to the guests, to the Minister and to the coworkers! We're moving on to 13. Period of the day - Defence proposal for a law on the amendment of the law on business, a summary procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of Members with the first-signed Bogdan Barovic. With regard to this law, the Commission proposes to the National Assembly that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. On the basis of the third paragraph of Rule 134 of the Rules of Procedure, I give the floor first to the representative of the bill-makers, Mr Saš Pečet, for further explanation of the bill. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u174	Your Honors are here! In the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, we have introduced the same law for the third time in this mandate and also in previous mandates. The reason why we have already tabled similar material three times is the response of the legislative and legal service, which has always sent us to another law, that the law governing the incompatibilities between the parliamentary and mayoral functions is, for the first time, appropriate within the framework of the law on local elections, the second law on local self-government and the third time of the law on Members. This is how the National Assembly meets today with the law referred to by the legislative and legal service and, last but not least, by the previous government. As part of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, we are indeed disappointed when we met a few months ago in this term with the law on Members proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the National Assembly, but as you probably know, this article has not been opened, so today we are meeting again or for the first time with the mother of the incompatibility of the mayor- MP. While we were confident at that time that we would be able to include the constitutional category of incompatibility in the amendment form. Unfortunately, that was not possible, so today the National Assembly is meeting with this. As it is said, incompatibility is a constitutional category, the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia as the highest legal act defines incompatibility in the six articles. Thus, Article 82 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia defines incompatibility for Members, in Article 100 incompatibility for members of the Council of State, 105 for President of the Republic of Slovenia, 166 for Judges of the Constitutional Court, 133 for Judges and not least in Article 136 for Prosecutors. According to the applicant’s assessment, that is to say, according to the assessment of the Slovenian National Party’s parliamentary group, the basic basis for incompatibilities in motherhood or on the relation of a member of the Court in Article 1 of the Constitution in the introductory provision of the Constitution, which clearly refers to the national regime in the Republic of Slovenia, is what the State should be in the form of a government and in the form of a political system. In the context of the implementation of this Article of the normative part of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the principle of the division of power into the legislative, executive and judicial branches of power has been established, which is clearly stated in Article 3 of the Constitution, which speaks of the constitution and enforcement of the division of power or, in other words, the division of power is the implementation of the preliminary provisions of the normative part of the Constitution on the democraticity of our country. According to the Constitutional Order, in the view of the constitutionalists and all of us, who have tried and continued to make the Constitution the highest legal act that we must follow, it makes sense that the power should be shared and balanced at the same time; the emphasis is shared and balanced at the same time, which means that, under these principles of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the legislator cannot be the enforcer of the legislation at the same time. There is no doubt in this law and in the context of the constitutional order of the Republic of Slovenia that the mayor is also part of the executive authority. Part of the executive authority is the mayor, because, like the government and the state administration, it enforces not only its own regulations, i.e. local regulations, but also laws and all other regulations. The mayor is part of the public administration, which performs an important part of the administrative tasks in parallel with the state administration. Thus, in the case of the simultaneous exercise of the mayoral and parliamentary functions, there is an absurd situation in which the mayors themselves, in a single role, regulate the laws themselves and perform them themselves in this role, which is contrary to at least three principles of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Also allow me to point out, within the time available, also after our assessment of the violation of Article 82 of the Constitution, which clearly states that Members are representatives of all people within the Republic of Slovenia. However, the mayors are known to be representatives of a local people, i.e. a local community. And there is already a contradiction between the mayor's and the MP's role here. According to our assessment, it is imperative to adopt the law to the extent that this National Assembly wishes to respect and follow the guidelines of the highest legal act within our country, namely the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u175	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Aloise Sok, New Slovenia, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u176	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear fellow Members and Members! The law, which is to be considered today, has been assessed on the working body as a law that is not suitable for further consideration. We have met with some complications in this law. After hours - I think that more than three hours of discussion - we have taken such a decision, although I must say that the opinions of Members in this regard are shared. And also in Novi Slovenije - The Christian People's Party we are thinking and we are convinced that the National Assembly, after all, should resolve this matter once and for all and close this chapter once and for all. Indeed, we have already tried, twice or even three times, in the previous term, to resolve this matter in fact and make the functions of the mayor and the MP incompatible. In New Slovenia, we also think that this is actually incompatible, but we have never succeeded before. Of course, we believe that the reason is very simple. There are still too many mayors in this National Assembly to accept this. At the beginning of this mandate, we have done a lot of work on whether it is possible for a Member to carry out a profitable activity, such as scientific research, teaching and other professional activities. We've spent a lot of hours on that. Finally, to all those who have come with a role, we have somehow approved in the Commission on Mandated Questions that they can carry out this activity for up to one-fifth of the time, but we have never, of course, touched on the mayor's functions as a Member of the same person in these debates. The national party has proposed a solution this time, indeed very briefly, in three articles, but the legislative and legal service has had a number of concerns on this proposal. Some of them were also considered to be not entirely valid because, together with the mayor's role, they proposed that the incompatibility be narrowed down for other local officials. On this basis, the proposer came in second reading with a few, in our opinion, unfortunate amendments, which were also intended to make it incompatible to declare the function not only of the mayor but also of the sub-districts. However, we are convinced that the mayor is not directly elected. In fact, before the change, the mayor's council voted on the mayor's proposal, and even after the amendment of the law, it is no longer necessary, but simply among the councilors the mayor is appointed. This way the parishioners can quickly change and actually change quickly, we can now see what is happening in the Ljubljana City Council when it comes to the fact that the parishioners have left their posts and will appoint other parishioners without major problems. For this reason, as far as New Slovenia is concerned, we were unable to support the amendment proposed by the Slovenian National Party and in this way it has somehow become inoperable, inconsistent with what the legislative and legal service has proposed. This is also why we voted against the content of Article 2, because some members of the opposition have also greatly cheered them up, and I note that they are still happy today, but we are no doubt still in our position that this relationship will need to be regulated by the mayor- MP, because whenever we discuss corruption in Slovenia, it is also always important to think, in fact, whether it is not also part of what we call a common way of corruption. For if anyone is an apostle and a mayor at the same time, [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] You don't have to cover your eyes. [[...]] That's a lot more chance than that. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u177	Time is running out. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u178	a lot of things for your congregation. [[...]] Thank you very much. I'll be done with that.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u179	Thank you. Mr Kristijan Janc has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u180	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! The proposal to amend the Law on Members provides for the incompatibilities of the mayor's and the MP's function. The Commission proposes that the law is not suitable for further consideration, and the Members of the Slovenian People's Party will support the Commission's proposal. The incompatibilities of the mayoral and parliamentary functions have been dealt with several times throughout the term of office of the national assembly, and many more have been heard about the constitutionality of the existing legislation which allows for the simultaneous exercise of the parliamentary function and the non-professional performance of the mayor's function. If this compatibility is really unconstitutional, as the motions for this amendment to the Law on Members point out, the Constitutional Court may, of course, decide to do so, which therefore has the necessary competence. We will also respect the decision of the Constitutional Court in the Slovenian People's Party. Even though we understand certain arguments in the Slovenian People's Party about the incompatibilities of the mayor's office, we would also like to stress that the existing regime brings a number of advantages that we cannot ignore. In the Slovenian People's Party, we often stress the necessity of decentralisation and consistent regional development of Slovenia. The fact that the mayors are also Members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia can, of course, be very positive in this respect. Those Members who are mayors at the same time well know the problem of the local community and, as a result, can also represent the interests common to all local communities in this work in the National Assembly. In doing so, we note, of course, that we strongly oppose the fact that individual mayors, as members of the National Assembly, act solely in the interest of their own congregation. If this were to take place outside the framework of the law, of course we have competent authorities that could also act. For greater decentralisation and for faster and more equitable development of the Republic of Slovenia and the local environment, the current regime is therefore fully acceptable. If we assume a situation in which there would be no mayor in the National Assembly, in our firm belief, the National Assembly would certainly make a number of decisions in its work that would be contrary to the interests of local communities. Recent experience has shown that it is those Members, who are also the mayor, who have often pointed out those solutions in the bill proposals, which pose a danger to the decline of the municipalities. With what the municipalities have contributed to the more equitable development of Slovenia, I believe that everyone here in the hall understands this. Dear colleagues and colleagues, don't be afraid of mayors in the National Assembly, because I have and I think we have a lot of experience with reality at the micro level of our environment, which we can use with our experiences and with our positive energy in implementing the legislative branch of power and the lives of people in all our Slovenian municipalities. To those mayors and Members who simply cannot do this work, I propose that they withdraw from one of the functions as soon as possible - either as mayors or as Members. I am also sure that I must stress this: that the mayors are not loved by Members as holders of the executive function of local self-government, but rather by other Members, i.e. as representatives of the electorate. The National Assembly is a representative body whose members come from a variety of local backgrounds and, despite the lack of commitment to the parliamentary mandate, express the interests of this environment by their very nature. In coordination, the position of Members, who are at the same time mayors, is not different from that of Members who are subordinates, members of municipal councils or who are not municipal officials. In short, in the Slovenian People's Party, we are convinced that in the end, the electorates and voters are the ones who decide who will be the mayor, who will be the MP. And if voters decide that their mayor will also be an MP, they are right in the end; voters are usually never wrong. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Mr Sašo Pece has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u182	Say good-bye again! Hold what was said to be the right voter. But then from this place, I wonder why you were so much opposed to the former President, Mr Kučan, when he wanted to perform or to stand up for a third term in elections, if the voters were always right and if that was the case. Gentlemen, the Constitution is just a constitution and no matter what you say today, none of you who have come forward and who will still be cannot deny that the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia divides power into executive and law and that the mayor is part of the executive power. However, if this mayor is still a Member of Parliament, he shall act as the legislative branch of power. And there is a conflict of interest, which the Constitution opposes in several categories and principles. One of the representatives spoke of the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, which was largely opposed to the proposal of the Slovenian National Party Act. It's not true to a large extent. The national party even took into account part of the legislative and legal comments and came to the home labour body equipped with an amendment. And it was the gentlemen who referred to the opinion of the legislative and legal service that you did not want to support the amendment, which was based on the opinion of the legislative and legal service. And one more thing. Those of you who were on the committee will probably remember that the representative of the legislative and legal service softened his position when he initially tried to use the term rather heavily that the mayor was not a representative of the executive branch. This would, of course, lead to some form of constitutional crisis in Slovenia, when the legislative and legal service of colleague Pavel Rupar, I am pleased that you have come to work this week, at least once, but allow peace to reign in the meeting room, and that only those who speak about the speaker would speak. [[...]] Well, let me get on with it. Two or three more things need to be highlighted as regards the parent’s working body. First of all, it is not the reason for not adopting the law today, but simply the truth that certain political parties do not want to leave their reading at local elections. So you don't want to let go of the control of individual local communities. This is in conflict with the Constitution, but it is not disputed by the egotistic beliefs of individual political parties and parties. We just have to be so honest here, and we all have to admit it for ourselves. Furthermore, what makes sense is that the government has not given an opinion on this issue. And if that question is raised, it makes sense to ask why she did not. Because the Government of the Republic of Slovenia knows that the proposal follows the Constitution and that the proposal positively implements the constitutional principle of the division of power. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has not given its opinion. Therefore, she did not hope to write that she did not support the bill because, of course, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia would go against the constitution in this case. And this part, this negative part, is left to you, Members and Members, who will oppose this law. Allow me to make a point below, which has been said several times, that those municipalities where mayors are representatives of certain local communities live much better and better. Then I ask you why there are not all 190 or the remaining 180 and some mayors of Members, because if we agree to your theory, we are putting in the unequal position of the municipality, that is also a problem, not only the mayors on the one hand and the Members on the other, but also the municipalities, of course. Based on your theory and if we accept it, we agree on the theory that certain congregations are privileged because they have a man in the legislative branch of power and, ultimately, a man who distributes and sets financial resources. The budget shall be part of the executive branch of the Authority and shall be part of the legislative branch of the Authority. It has also been said and I am very sorry that the individual representatives of the political parties who have already come forward do not know the Constitution or so well that they know that we have a special institute called the State Council, which is intended for preservation, or that I will properly express myself, the State Council, where representatives of local communities are also. And that is why they are reserved in the state council for representatives of local communities to highlight the aspirations and aspirations of individual local communities. Here, let me introduce you to another novelty that you probably do not know, namely that these are not just representatives of one municipality, such as the mayor, but a certain circle of municipalities, where the electorate system of elections is special, in order to come and defend the interests of all local communities from that area. I say again, regardless of the speech - I said: those who will vote against it will vote against it because of selfish political interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Mr Willy Rezman has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u184	Thank you very much. Let me just say in the introduction that I am in an awkward position when I perform both tasks, the mayor and the MP. This will not prevent me from voting for these two functions to be incompatible. This is what I have done before the elections, and this is how I will do today, and I will try to make more reasonable arguments when the time is right for this to happen. We don't have enough time in these five minutes. For a period of time, those who participated in the Commission's mandate-holders had. However, it seems to me, at least after the report, that I did not cooperate there, not excessively intensely and not excessively deeply, and therefore I regret that at least two other interested working bodies have not been given the opportunity to discuss this, namely the Committee on Internal Policy and the Committee on Local Self-Government. There too is a debate on this issue. But this problem is in the air all the time, and I also agree that the time must come when things will be resolved and closed. I will support the basic intent of the bill's proposer, and I think his argument is very weak. If we held back the argument, then we should feel uncomfortable with those in the National Assembly, and at the same time we are mayors. Be it because some people tell us that we are not doing enough quality work, or that some people think that we cannot because this work is too much, or that some people are judging and reading us if we are only fighting for their narrow localist interests, or that we are listing any other arguments that, in my judgment, at least everyone can't resist. But it's all right! These too are likely to have to be overlooked, but there are probably many other indications of the incompatibility of certain other functions, of the incompatibility, for example, of sent functions or ministerial functions with functions in the supervisory councils or of the functions of a Member and a Councilman in the municipal world, etc. This is probably lacking mainly because it is based on an obvious possibility to perform both functions, as I see it, that this is literally and actually a build-up of power in a smaller number of hands. And it certainly can't be good, at least not for democracy. But democracy elsewhere knows this situation, and it is unlikely that some other European countries have been selected to support this bill, but in fact they speak quite the opposite, except for one German case. So I don't know why such cases were chosen: either on purpose, or really just after the accident, or after some recklessness. However, let us see what the main point of view is. The main observation is that there is too much weight in Parliament for the mayoral lobby. I must admit that I don't know this lobby, that I don't see it, that I as a mayor have no use for it, and I know that the many mayors and mayors who are sitting here today have challenged me when I proposed either any law or any amendment and I have indisputably found that the impact and integration is linked on a different line, not on the mayoral line, because some mayors and mayors voted against the laws and amendments that were in favour of the local communities. For example, in the Social Protection Act or in the Offences Act, etc., when we emptied here from the National Assembly of Municipal Budgets, the mayors supported it. So, this perception that there's an overpowered mayoral lobby here is completely insufferable because it can be rejected by empirical examples. Secondly, it is possible for a very individual mayor or an individual Member to act in a narrow manner only in accordance with the interests of his municipality, but there is no difference between mayors and Members. It also seemed that some Members were very localistic to see how individual amendments or laws are linked by regions, not even by parties and not even by coalitions or opposition. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] I see this danger somewhere else, not in this. [[...]] But let's just say one more argument to why I don't think I can vote for the motion of a mandate-holder commission that said that this law is not suitable for further consideration. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u185	Comrade Rezman, I am obliged to interrupt you. Your time is up. Allow us to proceed with the meeting, you've exceeded the time, you know the rules. The following shall be the representative of the SDS Group of Members, Ambassador Franz Sušnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u186	Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, and Mr President, Mr President. Allow me to present a brief position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group on the legislative proposal that we are considering and to express my agreement at the outset with the proposal for a decision of the Commission on terms of office, that the proposal for a law amending the law on Members which it has referred to in the parliamentary procedure, as we have heard for the third time, is not suitable for further consideration by the group of Members of the Slovenian National Party with the first-signed, Mr Barovic and Mr Pečet. Moreover, in our Group of Members we are convinced that it is proposed: the law is completely inadequate, inconsistent, inappropriate way to solve this so-called problem of incompatibility, which is unjustifiably and unjustifiably devoted to such and so much attention, but it is certainly being given too much attention to this issue. In the parliamentary group, we are also of the opinion that the actual and fully questionable need is to reopen and question the issue of the incompatibility of the parliamentary and mayoral functions and that the current regime, which leaves the electorate and the electorate to determine the appropriateness of both functions at the same time, is entirely sufficient. In the fact that our Law on Members in terms of non-compatibilities and the conduct of gainful activities is significantly tighter than European regulations, this claim is even more true and is an entirely inappropriate case of the incompatibility of the Member and the Mayor with each other when they are faced with incompatibility problems at the same time with other professions, as we have already heard today. In any case, we also fully attach to the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia that the proposed amendment to the law is inappropriate and inadequate and could encourage different interpretations and disputes concerning the attempt to determine precisely the circle of officials in local communities whose performance would be incompatible with the function of a Member. On the basis of the above, I hope that this subject is exhausted in this mandate, and I reiterate my intention to vote in favour of the proposal for a decision by the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u187	Thank you for your position. The following is a presentation of the position of the Member Club of Liberal Democracy, mag. Borut Saiovic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u188	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word. Colleagues and colleagues, nice greetings and greetings to Ministry representatives! At the LDS House of Representatives, we have examined the bill amending the law on honourable colleagues from the Slovenian National Party in depth and in detail and can be a source for a good and interesting debate. This is a question that has already received a beard in this National Assembly, as this has been discussed in all references, in each mandate and in every reform of local self-government. The incompatibilities or compatibility of a Member's function with the performance of a function in the local self-government system is a topic on which many valid arguments have always been presented, both "for" and "against". We never made the final decision out of a crowd of dilemmas. We are confident that today, too, there will be no difference, for the view of this subject obviously changes greatly, depending on whether someone is in opposition or position. In view of the many legal facts and positions that the legislative and legal service is also attaching to them, the issue of how far this compatibility should go is not resolved in this experiment and in this proposal. We wonder if this may end with the mayors who, on the basis of their powers, can perform individual functions under the mayor's authority, even replace him, and even perform his functions until the call for replacement elections if the mayor's term of office is terminated prematurely. If the motive for amending the law is really only a legal conflict of interest between the executive and the legislative authorities, for which we also have some conflicting opinions of eminent legal experts, but unfortunately so far no constitutional one, then the status of municipal councilor or even further to the third branch of local authority is also questioned in this role, that is to say, participation in the municipal supervisory committee. Of course, if we draw a sharp and firm line here, we are faced with a new dilemma: how or how well local interests are presented and represented in this national assembly. We all have clear dilemmas and unfinished stories, both through the establishment of landscapes and regionalisation, as well as the question of another home or of this eternal dilemma in relation to the state world. And from here another small step forward, we are in the electoral system, where we will come up with a dilemma, whether all parts of our country and all citizens are adequately represented. Now it is only from this brief presentation of issues that much more than a solution. In the LDS, we are convinced that this proposal does not have all the answers, so Members will vote in accordance with the personal vision of the problems already presented. Regardless of the outcome of the vote, which is largely predictable, we expect the ruling coalition and the Ministry of Public Administration to draw up a comprehensive solution to this problem, in accordance with pre-election promises, as far as it deems necessary. At that time, our reflection can be based more on facts than on personal and political beliefs, which also lead to a better life for our citizens and citizens, which is our main task and we are fully aware of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u189	Thank you. Here comes a presentation of the position of the Socialist Group of Members. Ambassador Dushan Kumer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u190	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'm in a bit of an unenviable position because three mayors and one mayor spoke before me, but I'm a clean, clean MP myself. However, I will try to present some reason for the incompatibility of these two functions from the point of view of work and, above all, the effectiveness of this national assembly. So this proposal for amendments to the Law on Members is not the first to address this issue, as my predecessors have already said. Therefore, on behalf of the Social Democrats Group, I must repeat the position that we have repeatedly said that we are aware of the importance of this issue and have repeatedly expressed our position on the incompatibility of the parliamentary and mayoral functions. So we support this bill. At the same time - with three amendments already taking place - it has also been said that this change is also necessary because of the principle of power-sharing, since the legislator cannot be someone who also enforces laws within its mayoral function. Today we have this opportunity to implement this forecast and direction. There was no such thing on the election committee and the appointment of your will. Moreover, even though the initiative to amend the legislation on the non-compatibility of the parliamentary and mayoral functions has already been introduced for the third time, the government has not identified or considered it opportunistic to participate in the Commission's own meeting. Otherwise, it was just a meeting and just a meeting of the true farce, which almost ended with a vote on the title of the law, which was no longer available. All that's left is the address. Perhaps this is also due to the fact that the chairman and the chairman of the meeting are the mayor. However, despite all these misgivings and grave concerns, the issue of the incompatibility of the mayor's and the MP's function remains only a question of our own naivety in this national assembly. In doing so, it must be said that this incompatibilities in practice run from congregation to congregation and are also being enforced. On the contrary, and here I would like to say that it is not in the sole interest and the interference of voters and voters to decide which of the mayors will be the MP and who will not. In fact, it is within the jurisdiction of the municipal councilors to decide whether they will have a professional or non-professional mayor and the mayor. With this provision in the Statute, they shall also decide whether their mayor or mayor, if she has gained the confidence of the electorate and electorate, may also be a Member: "yes" or "no". So they can do this in the congregation, and of course we are not prepared to do so in the national assembly. In the Social Democrats Group, we tend to clear as much as possible of any additional obligations as possible. The mission brings regular daily obligations, requires attendance at committees, commissions, meetings and meetings, requires the preparation of acts and, last but not least, a presentation of this work to the general public, a full working schedule in the National Assembly, a full salary for it and then a full car seat and half a full-time employee in the local congregation, it is possible only in theory, in practice people cannot do it. That is why we have the practice in this National Assembly to gather fully only on the evenings when we have the votes. And since the examples are drawing, I have the feeling that there are increasing numbers of Members who receive a full parliamentary salary only for the vote and perhaps even a few more hours devoted to it in this House. We do not support the Commission's conclusions in the Social Democrats Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u191	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The proposal for a decision will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 18th item of the agenda or no later than 20.45 hours. This concludes this agenda item. And we're moving on to 16. Period of the day -- it's on a defensive proposal for a resolution on the National Environmental Protection Programme. In doing so, I remind you that the time for discussion is set to be 2 hours and 40 minutes. The motion for a resolution was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I therefore give the floor to the representative of the Government to further explain the motion for a resolution. On behalf of the Government, the Minister for Environment and Space, Mr Janez Podobnik, will do so. Welcome.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u192	Dear Members and Members. Mr. Vice President. I am pleased to present the brief content of the Resolution on the National Environmental Protection Programme proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption. In opening, I would like to point out that this motion for a resolution on the national programme of environmental protection, which is before you today at the parliamentary table, is the main strategic document of the Republic of Slovenia in this area. The national programme for environmental protection is the starting point for the environmental dimension of the strategy for the development of Slovenia, which defines the vision of the future of Slovenia and the guidelines and measures for the implementation of this vision by 2013. Both documents were produced almost simultaneously and that is good because they are very, very coordinated. This means that environmental protection programmes will be key in integrating environmental issues into sectoral economic and social development policies, as well as the cultural development of Slovenia. The main objective of the National Environmental Protection Programme is to generally improve the environment and quality of life and protect natural resources. To this end, the programme sets targets in specific areas for specific time periods and priorities and measures to achieve these objectives. The national programme is prepared on the basis of the Environmental Protection Act and is in line with the 6th European Community Environment Programme 2002. It is ready for the period up to 2012 as it is said. However, we have identified specific priorities by 2008, although in some areas the objectives and measures are also set in a longer term. The basic orientation of the environmental protection policy already laid down by the Environmental Protection Act and the first national environmental protection programme in 1999 - I stress that the first national programme was adopted in 1999, the second national programme is ahead of us - the basic orientation of the environmental protection policy is focused on ensuring sustainable development. In the environmental field, sustainable development means organising an economy and infrastructure, moving and lifestyle within the framework of environmental and natural resource capacity and striving to promote the integration of environmental content into other sectoral policies, in line with the principle of integration. However, appropriate incentives in different policy areas to achieve the objectives set are made up of a series of measures that we have written down during the strategic orientations. Here we should draw attention to the promotion of the development and transfer of new environmental technologies into or into use. We have therefore announced in the national programme the preparation of a specific operational programme to encourage the use of environmental technologies for next year. Particular attention is also paid to sustainable consumption and production. This requires an integrated approach. It is a matter of integrating the principle of integrated policy into products, including environmentally friendly economic instruments and legislation. If I mention green public procurement, environmental management systems such as EMAS, ISO 14001 and the introduction of environmental and energy labelling products. Particular attention is paid to the rehabilitation of degraded areas, which are also defined as one of the basic guidelines in Slovenia's development strategy. I refer to the re-priority rehabilitation of the Upper Mežica Valley due to lead pollution by preparing a special programme already this year, or the start of the implementation of the rehabilitation in 2006. On the basis of an assessment of the state of the environment and trends, the ciliium and priorities are defined in four bearing areas. The first area is climate change. The aim is to highlight climate change as an important challenge in the coming years and to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and thus contribute to the long-term objective of stabilizing greenhouse gas concentrations in the atmosphere, as well as to reduce emissions of substances causing ozone layer thinning. The second framework area is nature and biodiversity, with the aim of protecting and preserving natural systems, habitats, wildlife and plant species and of halting loss of biodiversity, genetic diversity and further degradation of soil. A third important area is the quality of life with the aim of contributing to a high level of quality of life and the social well-being of citizens, by ensuring an environment where the level of pollution does not adversely affect human health and the environment and by promoting sustainable urban development. This objective has also been complemented by the Committee's debate on water, and I quote: "In particular, ensure measures to establish a good state of surface and underground waters and to manage and manage water in a sustainable manner." The fourth basic objective or area is waste and industrial pollution with the aim of managing waste and using renewable and non-renewable natural resources that enable sustainable production and consumption to help reduce environmental pollution and energy consumption by not exceeding the bearable capacity of the environment. It is important to stress that an integral part of the national programme is also a national nature protection programme, which is the basis of the nature conservation law and the national water management programme. And here's the water law. These areas in the national programme have been taken over and are also in line with the EU environmental programme, but we have, of course, taken into account certain Slovenian specificities. We added two areas. The first is industrial pollution. Due to important measures in the implementation of the Directive on the integrated prevention and control of environmental pollution from large industrial plants and the introduction of an environmental permit. The second area is the area of public environmental services, especially in the area of environmental infrastructure management in the areas of drinking water, waste water and waste, where there is a visible developmental backlog for some more developed areas of the EU and where visible structural changes are taking place and will take place during this period. The national programme also sets out the main environmental actors: state administration, municipal administration, operators of state and municipal public environmental economic services, NGOs and, last but not least, the economy. Guidelines and priorities are also identified in the field of international activities with a view to including environmental protection requirements also in foreign policy and development cooperation, the effective implementation and enforcement of international environmental-related treaties and the accelerated cross-border cooperation with neighbouring countries and regions. Measures in the field of communication with the public and education in the field of environmental protection are very important support measures to successfully implement programmes that can help change social customs, value and unsustainable lifestyles. In this regard, access to environmental information, public participation in the design of environmental policies, public information and awareness and environmental education should be ensured, thus ensuring conditions and conditions for an equal and lasting reduction of negative environmental impacts. A good example of public participation in the design of environmental policies is actually this document, whose preparation has been carried out at all times in an open and transparent manner and has already been provided to key public participation in the earliest stages of preparation. A plan for the preparation of the national environmental protection programme and public participation was drawn up, published in public, with all the expected deadlines of the preparatory phase and also the form of cooperation with the public at various stages of preparation. The process of public participation in the preparatory process was intended to ensure transparency of the process, better information on environmental policy in the European Union and Slovenia, as well as better information on the content of the national programme proposal itself, to obtain additional arguments, views and information provided by participants in the process and to provide greater support for the implementation of this national programme. A direct follow-up was also carried out after each event and, at the end, a comprehensive assessment was carried out with a selected group of participants. All information relating to the process and the performance assessment alone is also available on the Ministry of Environment and Space website. The main focus for achieving the objectives of the programme is, in the context of funding, a fairly well-established fundamental principle of environmental protection, followed by the principle of payment for environmental burdens. The programme therefore defines economic instruments and environmental benefits as a basic source of resources and also provides for further guidance in the environmental financing system. The main sources of resources are identified: state budget, municipal budgets, environmental benefits, European Union investment funds, private sector loans and funds, which are also assessed for key projects, and are defined in more detail in the framework of operational programmes. So far, the following environmental taxes have been introduced in the Republic of Slovenia, if only briefly summarised: water load fee, water reimbursements, air load charge with CO2 emissions, environmental load tax for waste disposal, environmental charge for spent motor vehicles, and environmental charge for use of lubricants and liquids. In the next short term, however, the Ministry of Environment and Space would like to check first the effectiveness of existing environmental duties, for example, the CO2 air load tax, the water tax, the water refund - we will therefore check the effectiveness of these instruments, and also promote a sustainable waste management system and reduce the amount of waste at source. By doing so, we will reimburse the costs of environmental damage caused in the past and thus become an imperative or commitment to sustainable economic development. Furthermore, the policy will focus on the establishment of legal and economic mechanisms to implement the economic price of water use and sustainable management with natural well-being. Environmental protection also requires changes in the structure and direction of individual environmental duties already introduced, as well as the extension of the range of economic instruments for environmental protection, in line with certain new environmental regulations. If I mention emissions trading, financial guarantees for environmental protection purposes, joint investments in environmental protection projects or, for example, the introduction of an environmental sign and an organisation environmental management system. In line with the guidelines of the Sixth Community Environment Action Programme, the key priority of the National Environmental Protection Programme is a long-term closure for the protection of the environment of negative subsidies, and therefore a high priority for environmental protection policy in the next short term by 2008 is also to maintain the dedicated use of environmental duty-based resources and to extend the environmental duty range, if I mention the introduction of an environmental tax due to the generation of waste electronic equipment and products of white technology - on this issue, you can read something in today's media - and environmental charges due to the generation of waste batteries. Dear Members and Members! In order to monitor the implementation and evaluation of the programme, the final chapter sets out the tasks and deadlines for their implementation, indicators for the international comparability of achievement of the objectives and the state of the environment. As Minister, I have also decided to set up a working group to monitor the implementation of the programme and to report on this to me. If I make my own assessment, I will also report to the National Assembly or to the National Committee on Environment and Space. On regular monitoring and reporting, up-to-date and effective measures can also be complemented and amended in the event of their inefficiency or lack of achievement of the objectives. Allow me to thank the Committee on Environment and Space, all those Members and Members, the President and others who, with the proposed amendments, have improved the proposed resolution on the national environmental programme and I propose and expect you to support it after the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u193	Thank you. The motion for a resolution was addressed by the Committee on the Environment and Space as a parent working body. I ask the Chairman of the Committee, Rudolph Petan, to present the report and the position of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u194	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary, Your Honor! At its regular session, the Committee of the National Environment and Space Assembly considered a motion for a resolution on the national environmental programme prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the basis of the law on environmental protection and sent it to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration and adoption. In addition to the basic material, the Committee also received the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia and the conclusions and views of the Council for the Protection of the Environment of the Republic of Slovenia. At the hearing, Mr Janez Podobnik, Minister of Environment and Space, outlined in the opening presentation the basic data and highlights of the motion for a resolution on the national programme for environmental protection. The National Environmental Protection Programme is a key strategic document in the field of environmental protection aimed at overall improving the environment and quality of life and protecting natural resources. The programme provides a framework for environmental policy in Slovenia to achieve a high level of environmental protection, taking into account the fundamental principles of environmental protection and conservation and nature. The programme is a starting point for the environmental dimension of the strategy for the development of Slovenia and contributes to the integration of environmental issues into sectoral policies. The measures adopted in favour of environmental protection and conservation are consistent with the objectives of the economic and social dimension of sustainable development. The programme also sets targets in specific areas for specific time periods and priorities and measures to achieve these objectives, based on an assessment of the state of the environment and the prevailing trends in the environment. The national programme is prepared on the basis of a law on environmental protection and is in line with the European Community's environmental programme, which addresses key environmental objectives and priorities in the European Union. The National Environmental Protection Programme includes the concept of sustainable development, as a development that enables the survival and supply of needs to future generations, and in addition to ensuring the prevention and reduction of pollution at source, it also highlights the smaller and more prudent use of natural resources and the preservation of biodiversity. In the environmental field, the actions of the programmes are aimed at sustainableness and constitute the organisation of the economy, infrastructure, migration and lifestyles within the framework of environmental and natural capacity. The programme fully takes into account the measures adopted at the World Summit on Sustainable Development and the goal of promoting the integration of environmental content and other sectoral policies. The Minister gave a brief update on how to prepare the national programme. The opinion was also given by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. The opinion was also delivered by the Council of State of the Republic of Slovenia, which in its opinion supports the motion for a resolution on the national environmental programme, drawing attention to the question of defining the document submitted only for the period until 2008. The Council for the Environment of the Republic of Slovenia adopted certain conclusions and views and proposals for specific additions to Chapters 1, 4 and 8 of the draft resolution when considering the motion for a resolution on the national programme for environmental protection. In the context of the general debate, Members pointed to some things. It was not clear from the document submitted what was going on until 2008 and which objectives and measures were set in the longer term, the need to implement the socio-economic instrument to ensure the economic efficiency of the measures, the Government should draw up a separate document on the national water management programme. This opinion was also given. Water management should stress the concern for water balance. Special care should be taken to maintain water quantities for drinking water supply. Some water protection areas are over-polluted, warning that drinking water is still used as technological water. The question was also raised as to the justification for the expected increase in the Natura 2000 share in certain areas in relation to the current relatively large proportion of these areas. It was also pointed out that spatial acts in Natura 2000 areas were not harmonised. At the conclusion of the general debate, the Environment Committee decided that the draft resolution on the national environmental protection programme was appropriate for further consideration. The Committee then moved on to a second reading and, on the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and some other opinions, amendments to certain chapters were adopted. In the light of the amendments adopted, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a supplementary motion for a resolution on the national environmental programme, which is also an integral part of this report, is prepared. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u195	Thank you for presenting the report. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Member Josip Bajc of the Slovenian People's Party shall have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u196	Mr Minister with colleagues, Mr Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, nice afternoon! For the Slovenian People's Party, the regulated environment represents an environment of living space for everyone on earth. It means a prerequisite for doing work, creating income and a decent life for a man. The use, especially the preservation of the environment, must be the objective of all our policies. Each Slovenian is obliged to contribute to this goal in his or her neighbor's yard. In line with this recommendation, Members of the Slovenian People's Party welcome the resolution on the national environmental programme, which in fact also covers the protection of nature and water management. In Slovenia we still have a relatively well-preserved nature and clean environment, which is of course extremely important for quality of life in our country, as well as the fact that Slovenia wants to become more popular as a tourist country. The proposed resolution follows the provisions and guidelines of the European Union. In this way, Slovenia follows the objectives of the European Union's environmental programme. The biological diversity and landscape diversity of Slovenia is our comparative advantage within the European Union. Its continued existence and development is therefore a priority for all of us. The environment should be burdened to the maximum of the upper limit of capacity and capacity, taking into account also the natural recovery capabilities. We need to offer Slovenians healthy food, to the maximum extent possible organic and processed food of known origin. The government has recently adopted a framework for economic social reforms to increase prosperity in Slovenia. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are convinced that there is a need to ensure sustainable, co-ordinated development or optimal economic, environmental and social factors for social development. Ecology is becoming increasingly important, as we have finally come to appreciate or appreciate a healthy environment. In this area, we have a lot to do together in Slovenia. Above all, we think it is important to educate and inform or, if you want, educate our citizens so that they can understand the meaning and try to maintain a clean living environment themselves. Permanent environmental education and education from kindergarten to university, and then throughout life, must be based on informed and informed citizens. It should provide a basis for the wider implementation of new environmental ethics and morals. In addition, clear criteria and standards need to be set where industrial pollution is concerned. These provisions also bring about the resolution that we are discussing today. Members of the Slovenian People's Party will support the resolution in the belief that it is a good foundation for sustainable development and the preservation of natural balance in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u197	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the position of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group, Ambassador Zmago Jelinčič Plemeniti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u198	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your warm welcome to all, to the Minister and others. The resolution on the national environmental protection programme brings together good wishes at one end, which I fear will not all be fulfilled. The fact is, if we look at paper, it's all the same if we look at reality, it's all different. Let's do it in a row. When we talk about nature and biodiversity, we observe or notice that the former Minister of Nature 2000 simply reduced and narrowed down because he wanted to place wind centres on one of the most prominent parts of the karst landscape in the world, not just us. Then another issue, when we talk about nature and biodiversity, we cannot go beyond the problem of the Ljubljana Barrier. After all, the Ljubljana Barje is an entrenched environment sown with black constructions, sown with black landfills also dangerous waste, various accumulators, batteries and I do not know what else. No one has yet done so, and despite the fact that we have already warned in previous mandates that it is imperative to start and prepare the law on the Ljubljana Barrier, this has not happened. I hope the future minister will do so, and we are ready to help him absolutely, because we have already prepared some things ourselves. When we talk about water protection, we must not forget the irregularity of the watercourses, especially of the torrential watercourses. As a result, the operation of the poles resulted in a rapid decline in the soil level and, in fact, the soil is now in grave danger. In addition, all possible pigs run into the soil and eventually become Slovenian water, which once became synonymous with good water, increasingly worse and worse. The rehabilitation of the Sava swimming pool should also be regulated in this context. The minister was already aware of that. The Sava swimming pool not only means the rehabilitation of this work in Slovenia, but also the rehabilitation of the Sava to Belgrade, where Slovenia can enter with its knowledge, with its framework programmes and therefore receive huge funds from the European Community. It is necessary to make an effort, the experts in Slovenia are, only to be done, pulled together and started to work. The third issue, or we must not forget what is usually happening, the spilling of chemicals into the water, the killing of fish, and then no one can figure out who poured the pork, the chemical, the poison into the water, but there's one factory by that water. No one's been punished yet, no factory's been shut down, no director's been hanged for any matter, and no one's ever seen it happen. Nature suffers, people suffer, they poison and nobody gets hurt. If we are going further into the area of noise, there is no doubt that the issue of urbanisation of the Republic of Slovenia should also be addressed in the area of noise. In particular urbanisation in the field of rail transport. Slovenia or its capital, Ljubljana, is probably the only capital where we have a railway run all over the top. We don't know this in European cities and we don't see it. If you're going to Brussels, you don't know where the railroad is going, but there's a train station in the middle of town. This creates, for the first time, huge urban growth areas, urban neighborhoods are involved and connected to each other, while rail infrastructure is put underground and thus reduced noise to a negligible level. Similarly, in relation to noise and urbanisation in the field of road or infrastructure connections, consideration should be given to underground railways in Ljubljana. Today we need to think about it and today we need to do projects, not like some stupid mayors who want to reintroduce a tram in Ljubljana, but I am not quite sure if even a tram with a horse's weight, because here is the level of their understanding. As far as the air is concerned. Air protection is a very important issue, as emissions of greenhouse gases, especially CO2 and some others are present here, are largely due to trucks on Slovenian roads in Slovenia. It happens that trucks, in order to save money, do not take the highway, but pollute everything around them. We have been in the Slovenian National Party for a long time, and I think that we have already proposed three times that we should legally define the issue that all trucks crossing Slovenia must go to the railway and be transported through Slovenia by rail. However, this did not happen because of strong truck lobbying that sent money here and there to certain addresses. As far as waste is concerned. The problem of waste is horrifying in Slovenia. In Cyprus, a huge number of asbestos plates have disappeared, and I don't know where to go, because some company has crushed these asbestos plates, mixed them among other construction wastes and scattered them around. Construction waste was also poured into certain places at a depth of two feet [2 m] and then over a half - meter [30 m] or a quarter [3 m] of ordinary land. And, of course, inspection services that don't do their job the way they should have discovered nothing. After all, one thing has to be achieved at the inspection services - that the Maribor inspectors will control the problem in Cyprus, the Koper inspectors in Murska Sobota, the inspectors from Murska Sobota in Slovenj Gradc, the Slovenes in Nový mesto and Novomščana in Maribor. This would result in the absence of these clientele connections, where huge money is pushed into pockets, huge money is being used, but everything goes to the detriment of the health of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. The general urbanization, the settlement of the Republic of Slovenia, is certainly also a problem. A shit nest like the Republic of Slovenia, if we look at it from the plane, it's not in the world. It's all over the place. We have a wall where someone has an uncle, a friend, a relative or something, or an open pocket in some municipal office. It's a terrible thing! Horrible! And nothing happens to anyone. Croatia is significantly more advanced and significantly more advanced in this area [[...]] [[Incomprehensible]] The country, because even those who are usually very afraid of being demolished by buildings. They demolished five-, six-story buildings and the case was settled. I don't know if it happened with us, but I think there were two cases in the entire mandate of Mr Kopač that he had some buildings demolished. Everything else happened so that the inspectors escaped from those residents who lived there. Where is the state's arrangement now, and where are the inspection services? Inspectors who don't do their job, get on the road! But let them walk on the roads if they're not capable of anything else! The inspector must be the one carrying out the tasks given by the Minister and prescribed by the Ministry, in accordance with the laws of course. This has not happened until today. I don't know why, maybe some gentlemen were getting some money in their pocket, and I know a few cases. It also went to a great extent for political clienteleism, when some equally friendly, politically oriented Februarys allowed some other gentlemen to do so, to say the least. After all, these segments include various high-level police officials, who should be asked how it is possible, how they built such houses in that very place, and how it is possible that they built houses that do not belong to any wall plan or other environment, both legally and naturally. However, another matter needs to be clarified, co-natural farming. Today's agricultural programs use terrible amounts of insecticides, pesticides, repellents, I don't know what else. If we look at the burden of Slovenian land, we see that in some cases it is beyond the burden of Vietnamese areas where Americans have been throwing repellents in the Vietnam War. That's terrible. Some insecticides have also gone to the soil, causing - this will be well known by fellow doctors - causing cancer, causing infertility, which is in the Slovenian population, I think still one of the painful syndromes. We will support this resolution. I've already said that I hope it's not just a bunch of nice wishes. We propose cooperation to the Minister, we are always ready for cooperation and assistance. We have a lot of data, and we hope, of course, that the Minister will put inspection services first and reward those who work, and throw those who don't work where they belong, among those dangerous wastes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u199	Thank you. Following is a presentation of the position of the DeSUS Group of Members. The Magnificent Messenger. Franz Gniedarsich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u200	Dear President, Mr Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! The National Environmental Protection Programme is a key strategic document in the field of environmental protection aimed at overall improving the quality of life and the protection of natural resources where we live. To this end, the programme sets out targets in specific areas for individual time periods and priorities and measures to achieve these objectives. The programme is based on the law on environmental protection and is in line with the European Community's environmental programme. It follows the directions of sustainable development in the environment, in the organisation of the economy, infrastructure, migration and lifestyles within the framework of environmental and natural capacity. The principles and strategic orientations of the programme shall include appropriate incentives in different areas of environmental policy with a view to achieving the objectives set by a range of measures, including consistent implementation of legislation, with strategic orientations and instruments. The assessment of the state of the environment is based on the 2000 report on the state of the environment in Slovenia and talks about climate change, natural and biological diversity and quality of life. The situation identified is the basis for defining the objectives and priorities of the main chapter in four areas: climate change, nature and biodiversity, quality of life and waste, and industrial pollution. The achievement of these objectives requires urgent measures to reduce greenhouse gases, to protect and maintain natural systems, free living species and plants, to contribute to a higher quality of life in a given environment that will not be harmful to health. By promoting sustainable development in cities and in rural areas, we must protect surface and groundwater and ensure its rational use in terms of this most important natural resource. Among other things, waste management, the use of renewable and non-renewable resources that enable sustainable production, consumption and energy use by helping to reduce environmental pollution with limited capacity is crucial. The programme also identifies the main environmental actors, including state and municipal administrations, operators of state and municipal economic services, environmental protection and non-governmental organisations. It also sets out their role and main orientations. Directions and priorities are also identified in the field of international activities and in the implementation of international treaties and commitments, which is also an important part of our foreign policy and cross-border cooperation. In the light of what our Group has said, it considers that the document in terms of content and the necessary measures in the future is good, perhaps too extensive and therefore somewhat less transparent. However, it would be even better if it were accompanied by an overview of the achievements of the first national environmental protection programme, at one time, and a review and analysis of the unfulfilled objectives and errors in the past period. Finally, our Group believes that our country in the field of environmental protection is very good at a girl's or formal level with regard to legal regulation. However, we lack some implementing documents and results at lower levels, as this can be seen from the report for the first period where a number of priorities remain unrealised, such as: excessive energy consumption, reduction of agricultural areas, groundwater pollution, rise in greenhouse gases, freight transport, CO2 emissions, noise and more. Nevertheless, in the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we are prepared to support this resolution, from which we must make many promises and for it and for its implementation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u201	Thank you. Here comes a presentation of the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Member Daniel the Slayer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u202	President, Honourable Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! The protection of the environment in Slovenia certainly has a valuable tradition, which is also reflected in our preserved environment. It is based on systematic study of nature by monitoring environmental phenomena and regulation in activities, from education and protection of natural and cultural heritage, to technological processes and waste management. In the second half of the 20th century, two development processes, industrialisation and urbanisation, have progressed so quickly and effectively that caring for the nature and protection of soils has not been sufficiently effective for nature interventions and the management of the human environment. On the one hand, Slovenia behaves with beauty and biota and landscape very varied and preserved nature, while some denser populated areas are affected by soil, air and water pollution and waste management. This certainly affects the lives of the inhabitants. The National Environmental Protection Programme is therefore a key strategic document in the field of environmental protection, aimed at overall improving the environment and quality of life and protecting natural resources. The main objectives of the environmental protection programme are: Second. To highlight climate change as an important challenge in the coming years and to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, thus contributing to the long-term objective of stabilizing greenhouse gas concentrations in the atmosphere, as well as reducing emissions of substances causing ozone layer thinning. Another time. Protect and preserve natural systems, habitats, wildlife and plant species, with the aim of halting the loss of biodiversity, genetic diversity and further degradation of soil. Third time. To contribute to a high level of quality of life, to the social well-being of citizens by ensuring an environment in which levels of pollution do not adversely affect human health and the environment by promoting sustainable urban development. Fourth time. Waste management and the use of renewable and non-renewable natural resources that enable sustainable production and consumption help to reduce environmental pollution and energy consumption by not exceeding the portability of the environment. The growing environmental crisis around the world is changing both social values and people's behaviour, and it encourages research on environmental threats and the development of new technologies. Slovenians should certainly not be lagging behind in the protection of the environment, so we support the resolution on the national environmental programme in our parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u203	Thank you. Here comes a presentation of the position of the Socialist Group of Members. Ambassador Janko Weber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u204	Thank you for your word. And once again a nice hello to everyone. The resolution on the national environmental programme contains other national programmes: protection of nature and water management. We believe that this is unacceptable because each individual national programme is so important and so extensive that it should be adopted separately and, of course, to produce a specific material that would be significantly more quality than what is now contained in the resolution on the national environmental protection programme. Social Democrats agree that it is necessary to integrate environmental requirements into all policies and activities. In adopting policies, strategies, programmes, plans, plans, countries, regions and municipalities, the country must promote such economic and social development of society that, in meeting the needs of the current generation, enables the preservation of the environment. While the motioner stated in the resolution that equal possibilities for meeting the needs of future generations should also be taken into account. Here we are asked who among us knows how the next generation will think and what needs it will have. I think they're rare enough to assess these needs. However, we believe that one of the instruments for integrating environmental content into sectoral policies is the implementation of a comprehensive environmental impact assessment. A comprehensive environmental impact assessment shall be carried out for all those plans, programmes, policies that have an important impact on the environment. It certainly includes all the plans that include projects for which environmental impact assessment is required. For example, plans in Natura 2000 areas, spatial acts and various sectoral programmes both at local, regional and national level. All fundamental principles of policy, environmental protection, such as the principle of integrity, prevention, precautionaryness, professional and general public participation, admissibility of interventions, the principle of sustainable development, are fully enforced through the development of comprehensive environmental impact assessments. Unfortunately, the overall assessment of environmental impacts in the resolution can only be seen in chapter two: Principles and Strategic Guidelines. If we look only at a table showing the monitoring of the implementation of measures and the achievement of targets by area, a comprehensive environmental impact assessment is in fact not to be observed. This means that, at this point, the resolution under consideration on the national environmental protection programme can close its debate and, in fact, close the substantive debate, as there is a key element missing that brings together all sectors or thinking in space in a way that we know what we have and what we should decide. However, we would like to point out in the debate that the shortcomings already mentioned in the national environmental protection programme talk about the use and purpose of a comprehensive environmental impact assessment, and in practice they are becoming completely different. The full assessment of environmental impacts is in practice applied at the level of implementing spatial acts, i.e. national and municipal local plans, which is something else entirely, as set out in the basic principles of this resolution. The following can be found that the resolution does not provide for a risk related to industrial accidents. The National Environmental Protection Programme does not tell how spatial planning issues and problems related to these problems will be addressed. The problem is similar to that of threatened areas with natural disasters, especially when we are talking about areas that are in the flood zone, which are sometimes also settled in black. The solution is done only by paying compensation and compensation. The policy of insurance, financing of protective measures, resettlement and the like remains fully open. Due to the shortcomings mentioned in the resolution, there is also no mention of what it means to intervene in a degraded area and what it means to be in a protected area and why someone should actually have an interest in living and creating in a preserved area. That is why I am asking us how the proposaler represents sustainable spatial development in preserved areas, where the resolution provides for only greater protection measures than those already in force today. The resolution also discusses environmental technologies. Environmental technologies are technologies whose use is less harmful to the environment. So these are technologies that protect the environment, pollute it less, ensure the sustainable use of natural resources, enable better recycling of waste and products. In terms of economies, they are important because they reduce energy consumption and other natural resources, and mainly because they reduce emissions from the environment. In view of this, they must take effect in all economic activities. As we have read the content of the resolution, we have, of course, also seen a weakness in this area, so we propose that environmental technologies be placed as a priority in areas important for the conservation of biodiversity. Such areas are defined in Slovenia in Kočevska, Kalpe Valley, Notranjska, Kras, Ljubljana Barje, Pohorje. In short, areas that, at least after all the documents, when they speak of biodiversity, are extremely important for the preservation of this natural order. However, we do not see in the action that the resolution would follow this important natural order. Such thinking, we can say, is also contrary to the Lisbon Strategy, which provides in its programme for the introduction and promotion of environmental technologies, for priority consideration of areas where nature and biodiversity are preserved. Thus, the lack of comprehensive environmental impact assessments is shown here, as the resolution provides for the means to remedy the situation in degraded areas and for the protected areas it provides for only compensation for the owners of agricultural land, for the owners of forests, but it is not sufficient to see what the economy in the preserved areas will have to be able to do to facilitate the introduction of environmental technologies as soon as possible. This is not what the resolution is talking about. The resolution also does not speak of people in protected areas who would need to be able, in the context of appropriate environmental technologies in the economy, to provide the best possible conditions for education, so that they can follow all those measures that help to preserve nature. If we add to this the fact that the 2006 and 2007 budget reduces funds or merely preserves at the level of the 2005 funds, that is, funds earmarked for renewable energy sources and does not provide resources for environmental impact assessment, in particular in many spatial plans or acts that local communities will have to adopt due to new legislation, and that we do not see what we can do if the issue is not resolved after 2008, when some municipal landfills are closed. We do not follow these concrete answers in the resolution, and we fear that we will adopt a resolution on the basis of the resolution in the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u205	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the position of the New Slovenia Group. Ambassador Drago Koren, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u206	Thank you, Chairman. A warm welcome to the Minister with his fellow Members, Members and Members. In the Parliamentary Group of New Slovenia - the Christian People's Party, we are pleased with the motion for a resolution on the national environmental programme. The resolution contains a programme to be valid for a longer period from 2008 to 2013. In New Slovenia, we hope and wish that the resolution on the national environmental programme will not only be a dead letter on paper, but will be implemented responsibly, as well as adapted and complementary. We believe that the proposed resolution sets out both the objectives and operational programmes of action to achieve these objectives. We propose, however, that the Ministry of Environment and Space monitor closely the implementation of this programme at all times. Well, not just that. They should continue to complement the programme set up and also seek new solutions to achieve it. In Nova Slovenije we sincerely want to see real improvements in the environment and quality of life in Slovenia. The protection of the natural resources that Slovenia has is particularly important in this regard. We are aware of the importance of a clean and healthy environment. We note that this awareness has been increasing in all entities in Slovenia lately. However, we must make particular efforts to properly inform and raise awareness of the general public, which is very important for raising the level of environmental awareness and increasing the knowledge of environmental issues. The resolution should give more attention to environmental education and education, as this represents one of the fundamental measures to achieve the objectives of the national environmental protection programme. We would like additional environmental content to be prepared and integrated into the natural and social content of education at all levels of the education system. Young people need to move closer to a system of values in the area of conservation of the natural environment, thus affecting changing social customs and a more environmentally friendly way of life. Slovenia is part of Europe. Europe, however, is part of a global world where environmental pressures do not know borders. The European Union promotes the integration of environmental protection requirements into all Community policies, and this also makes the European economy uncompetitive. On the other hand, countries, in non-compliance with environmental conventions, such as the Kyoto Protocol, retain an economic advantage while at the same time preventing the reduction of negative impacts on the environment. This is particularly true in the field of air pollution, where air does not know the limits. In addition to industry, transport is certainly the largest air pollutant. The steady increase in urban and road freight traffic requires measures to help reduce emissions from transport. By shifting freight traffic to railways, the situation would be greatly improved, but we all know that things cannot and cannot move in the right direction here. Besides the air, we think it's a very important area of water. Slovenia is fortunate that it still has sufficient clean and quality water. But this fact must not put us to sleep, but it gives us an even greater responsibility to preserve such a condition for our offspring. It is therefore a very important national water management programme and water protection, use and regulation. All inhabitants of Slovenia must first supply drinking water, and then we must also take care to remove and clean waste water. At the same time, we must be aware that we cannot have these goods for free and must pay them as well. Finally, I would like to touch the fields of electromagnetic radiation. This area of nature protection, especially people, is quite new, although electromagnetic radiation exists all the time. The public's legitimate concern is that exposure to electromagnetic radiation causes different health effects, as the intensity of artificial radiation has increased strongly and the scientific and technological revolution continues unabated. At the same time, it seems very important for us to take care of the installation of various antenna stations so that they will not be in the immediate vicinity of an intensive settlement, especially not near schools or kindergartens. In the Parliamentary Group of the New Slovenia-Christian People's Party, we believe that the resolution on the national environmental programme is good and we will support it. It is true, however, that we are afraid that all that is written in this resolution will actually be implemented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u207	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the position of the Member Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Dr. Pavel Gantar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u208	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr Minister with fellow Members, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The LDS Club will support the motion for a resolution on the national environmental programme. We believe that this is basically a good and acceptable document and in fact continues with the tradition of environmental programming and planning in the Republic of Slovenia. In a substantive sense, it also relies on the 6th European Union Environment Action Programme, although in our view it would be better to follow it even more precisely and in detail. While commending the well-designed document, I should only point out some shortcomings that may have a negative impact on the effectiveness of environmental policy in Slovenia. First of all, I should point out that the initial national environmental protection programme or resolution covered the deadline until 2008, although some programmes are defined by a longer period of time. The legal profession also warned of this. The amendment has been corrected in the resolution, but this has not changed in any way only the text of the national environmental protection programme, which may imply that the objectives are now extended from 2008 to 2012 and, if I may say so, the programme itself has dissolved to a certain extent. The national environmental protection programme or resolution largely summarises partial strategies such as the biodiversity strategy, then summarises operational programmes that are ready to implement individual directives. These partial strategies and operational programmes also have, understandably, different time periods, even until 2015, and therefore operate at different levels, while summarizing these objectives and measures after unnecessary burdening the document. The proposal in the work on water is obviously replacing, as has already been said, the national water management programme. This seems very questionable to us and we do not support it. In short, we believe that water is such an important natural resource, such an important element of our living environment that we need a specific national water management or management programme. Especially since the proposal sent by the government to the National Assembly has ignored the water problem in the reference to the basic objectives. That is why we have proposed that the improvement of the water situation should be placed as a special indent among the main objectives, which has not been adopted on the Committee as a special indent, and the Committee has adopted the third indent as a complement to the need, I quote: "In particular, to provide measures for the presentation of the well-being of surface and underground waters for sustainable management and management of waters, including the care of water balance and for the prudent use of water as a natural source." We believe that such a compromise solution is still good enough to support it, as the water issue is, however, included among the main objectives of the national environmental programme, especially since the applicant considers that the NGO or the resolution at the same time constitutes a national water management programme. In the motion for a resolution, we have warned, it is a highly under-appreciated issue of environmental efficiency. This is a big question that emerged after we had to find that the fifth European Union environmental action programme was very well designed, was a very beautiful document, but poorly implemented and the effectiveness of environmental policy was not exactly exemplary. The question of how much resources we can measure, inter alia, in money or in other elements, must be used to reduce the level of environmental burden for a particular unit of measurement. Only if we compare how many cartridges we need to give to reduce the burden on a given measurement unit could we find out whether this environmental policy is effective. We could prevent some major investments from taking measures, but in fact they are slightly improving the state of the environment and diverting resources to measures where substantial improvements can be achieved. The last part of the resolution also addresses the role of individual environmental policy actors, including the country. We believe that this role of the country should be more precisely defined and differentiated as the role of the country in policy-making, in the implementation of policies and in the monitoring and verification of the achievement of objectives. This also applies to the local community. In this way, we could more easily share responsibility and competence between individual elements of the state administration and local communities. In addition to complementing the basic objectives, Members of the LDS on the home committee have proposed, as has been said, a number of editorial supplements that have been adopted and are already in the copy of the motion for a resolution. Finally, let me stress and commend that the document underlines the particular importance of environmental information, access to information of a public nature in the field of the environment, and that this topic, and this is correct, extends also to the issue of partnerships or the participation of residents in the design of environmental policies and the resolution of environmental problems. This orientation seems appropriate and useful and will play an important role in the future in mediating and solving environmental problems. So let me conclude that, despite some of the shortcomings that I think are serious, and even in certain conceptual differences, whether or not Slovenia needs or needs a national water management programme - in the LDS we believe that - this is a document worth supporting and will also be subject to change and complementarity in the coming years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u209	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members. The first is Ambassador Aurelio Juri.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u210	Thank you, Vice President. I will be very brief, very specific and will ask the Minister a few questions on the water issue. We like to talk, of course, about the economic cost of water, but you know that in Slovenia we have situations that show great differences in the price paid by consumers. I come from an area that probably has the most expensive water in Slovenia for the household, it is said that it is 10 times more expensive because of all the contributions accompanying the price of water than the Market, and no one has ever proved that this is the fault of the local community. The circumstances are such, we know that the coastal area is deficient, as far as water is concerned, that much investment has to be made in the past. When we talk about the economic value of water, I am interested in what measures the state could contribute to simplifying the price of water as the price of some good to which we have the same right and, of course, the same duties. The second issue concerns the protection of the marine area. You have announced, on one of my previous questions about the ecological zone, the acquisition of an appropriate vessel, the appropriate means, and I am also interested in this concern, this control of the sea and coastal area, whether it will follow an idea that we have been developing for a long time and the government has already identified itself in the previous mandate, namely, a service that will integrate with other services that carry out tasks in the maritime area. I mean the idea of the Coast Guard. Is the Ministry of the Environment and Space active in preparing this or continuing the implementation of this project? I myself believe that its implementation depends very much on what the quality of action and control of the sea will be. Otherwise, I do not have much comment on the document itself, the main one has already been submitted by my colleague Weber. It is difficult for him to challenge, but we also expect appropriate concrete measures to be taken if the resolution is not intended for itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u211	Thank you. Member Marjetka Uhan has been announced for the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u212	Thank you very much for your words, everyone. The resolution on the national environmental protection programme shows the trend towards sustainable development and the concern for the legacy that we will leave to our descendants. This, however, will be ensured by the prudent use of natural and other resources at our disposal, including intelligence, otherwise this is not reflected in the resolution. Science has progressed so much today that it has been said of a cloned man. Whether a girl was born or not, this is no longer a question, it is the ability and courage of scientists who do not think about where the human race will lead and the whole world that has subjugated mankind. Although I was a little far away from the topic, I was thinking about one of the sensitive topics in agriculture, as well as the issues of consumer society, these are genetically variable organisms and food. Genetically variable organisms are here, there are facts, plants and food with altered genes are on the market. How much control they have in production is a question. The resolution states that, for the time being, genetically modified organisms are in closed circles of scientific institutions and that the issue of release into the environment is likely to need to be addressed before a regulation or directive is adopted with us. On the other hand, we are talking about indigenous biodiversity, nature that has exceeded and restricted over 35% of Slovenian territory, which is more than in any European country. Even for the purpose we have written down that we want to have at least one third of Slovenian agriculture or farmers farming in an ecological way in 2008. I hope that we do not replace organic farming by abandoning farming and that we are not wrong about the fact that organic farming is not only left to ourselves, because it is dying out the family of Slovenian farmers who have grown out of need and love, from tradition and awareness that the land must be processed. The resolution states that we want to preserve the current stock of agricultural areas processed. I am pleased that much has already been invested and is also thinking about educating pesticide users, fertilising, but I am saddened that it is much less designed to educate other environmental pollutants. I remembered the pollution from Kidric's, where farmers had to ask the competent institutions for a long time to take any action to admit that something stinks in that environment. Industry, diversity, construction, health care, automotive, consumer habits and customs are the ones that dig for all of us. I come from farmers. They say the water from the well isn't edible, it smells like tap. Juliana, Oda, Zala, and, I don't know what else is probably less controversial. But these are in the bottle. And for that sip of water, you need a bottle, and for each glass of water, you need a new bottle. I think this is the problem of consumption and the environment today. Bottle, not water. Unfortunately, high standards are also burdensome for the environment, especially awareness, education for all people and at all levels. Lifelong learning in cradles, not only in the third life period, will be able to contribute to conservation and sustainable development. I support the resolution on the national environmental programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u213	Thank you for your thought. Member Christian Janc has the floor. It is the turn of fellow Member Boštjan Zagorac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u214	Thank you for your word, chairman. Your Honors are here! Environmental protection is certainly an important segment in our society and it is difficult to oppose the material we have before us. It is difficult to "press against" today when we are talking about a national environmental programme, but I fear that it is not a national programme, as we have before us, just a letter on paper. Two cases may be considered by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the competent minister and his co-workers. The first case is certainly a poetry dump of waste oil, waste petroleum derivatives, which we know has been launched by a call for help on this landfill. He was also selected, I will be a river operator, but the contractor, in my opinion or in my opinion, has changed the way to solve this problem by pumping oil or waste from this landfill, draining it, taking them to a nearby pennies railway station and then further to Germany. You know, taking these things to the train station means a strong, strong threat to environmental protection and transport to Germany and destroying these wastes in Germany an additional cost. We know that we also had a Slovenian, I will say, our Styrian supplier, who would dispose of the waste on the landfill itself. My fellow Member, Victory Jelinčič, has already mentioned air pollution. In the Slovenian national side, we have proposed several times that trucks should simply get on the railways and, as the saying goes, we will kill two flies at the same time. For the first time, we will regulate environmental protection and contribute something to air pollution, and for the second time, we will relieve the traffic of all those who travel from Prekmurje and Styrian end to Ljubljana to work. And the third case, which is most important to me, I will say, is definitely a waste dump in Maribor. We know that in Maribor, as far as waste disposal is concerned, we do not have a problem. We have a temporary landfill that will be full, I think in the next 6 months, but for a new landfill, it's a simple municipality - and before that someone has talked about cooperation between the country and the local community - just doesn't have enough resources. In order not to withdraw the item from the municipal budget, the municipality dedicated 1 Slovenian tolar. I don't know why 1 Slovenian tolar, but probably because the item stayed in the budget. Maribor is the second largest Slovenian city, and if someone deserves an orderly arrangement for waste disposal, it is certainly Maribor. In the Slovenian National Party, we have already made efforts in the previous mandate to manage the waste dump in Maribor somehow through European funds. And also, I will operate with names, Dr Genorio was the one who offered us a program to implement, how to obtain European funds, so that we can have a waste dump in Maribor, financed with money from abroad, with grants. And here's an epiphany for you, Mr Secretary-General, Mr. Tauzes. You were the one who prevented this from happening back then. It was you who withdrew this programme of European funds. And from here, my fear that this national program that we have before us today is just a letter on paper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u215	Thank you. Only Bevk has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u216	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear assembly, Minister Podobnik, Madam Undersecretary, Mr Secretary! Although light is defined in Article 3(3) of the Environmental Protection Act as one of the possible emissions into the environment, light pollution in the resolution has not gained its place; it is not heard of in the resolution. Light pollution is due to uncontrolled and excessive emissions of artificial light into the environment with complex consequences, including in particular biological, sociological, economic, health, safety, legal, aesthetic and astronomical consequences. Let me present some of the effects of light pollution. In the framework of the bio-system in Slovenia, emissions of artificial light in the natural environment are increasing due to the mass use of ecologically inadequate lamps. Many foreign and domestic studies have demonstrated the negative impact of artificial light on many animal species. In particular, animals are exposed to the night light by replacing it with the moon or the sun, such as bats, birds, insects, and so on. In the field of public health in Slovenia, a large part of the population is exposed to aggressive artificial light during the night. A number of medical studies, however, demonstrate the link between exposure to artificial light in the night and biorhythm, the end result of which is more frequent disease for certain types of cancer. In the field of traffic safety, unshaded or poorly shaded road lamps light up drivers in the eyes and cause glamour to which older drivers are particularly sensitive. The glare of road lighting is excessive and reduces road safety. When it comes to electricity consumption. In Slovenia, in the field of external lighting, we have inadmissible large light or energy losses. The result of the use of non-shaded lamps is the leakage of light outside the illuminating objective, resulting in energy losses that comprise a quarter of the installed power. At an annual electricity cost of about 4 billion tolars in Slovenia, we lose about a billion tolars. The use of inappropriate lamps also indirectly increases greenhouse gas missions, contrary to the principles of sustainable development and the Kyoto Protocol ratified by the Republic of Slovenia. In the field of astronomical observations. Because of the unshaded lamps in Slovenia, we put directly into space each year, as we say, for a billion tolars of electricity. This passing of light into the sky or into space at night manifests itself as the glowing of the sky over the larger cities, so in Slovenia we have an over-lit sky, where we see only a few hundred more than a few thousand stars. By inadequate lighting, we destroy an important part of our natural heritage and make it impossible for future generations to see the dark night sky or look into space. This also prevents astronomical observations. I presented my first initiative to adopt a government regulation on the prevention and control of light pollution at the meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on 8 May 1997. It was also Thursday, since then 8 years 6 months and 16 days, or 3122 days, and at that time all the governments that have been in Slovenia since then have not had enough time to prepare this regulation, even though everyone has promised to do so in turn. At that time, regarding the threat of astronomical observations due to the emissions of light into the sky or to the joy of saying that Idrija is the Slovenian window into space, I made this claim because there are two observatories in the territory of the Idrija municipality, one of which is the largest in Slovenia and the most important observational observatory for comets in Europe and among the first reference sites in the world. Herman Mikush, an astronomer, Idrian by birth, discovered the two new celestial bodies of an asteroid as the first Slovenian in history and could have named them himself. Mikush's comet footage Bopp Hale [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] All the world’s largest television houses, CNN, were broadcast and published by all the biggest newspapers and magazines. [[..]] Due to increasing light pollution in Slovenia, then universities for mathematics and physics and astronomical-geophysical observatories warned that this activity would be seriously endangered or even disabled. Today, the profession warns that the situation is already alarming and almost uncontrollable. The condition worsened by about 300%. As it is said, in the field of light pollution, the situation in Slovenia has deteriorated greatly, particularly because of large investments in various infrastructures and because of non-professional lighting such as highways, industrial zones, new residential areas, etc. In Slovenia we install about 20,000 new lamps annually, which is also more than the number of newborn children; information worth thinking about. Of course, we are not against lighting because we urgently need it for safety, but let it be directed in the direction we need it within reasonable limits and as little as possible to the environment, to the ground as possible, not to the sky where it is lost. Therefore, the Ministry of the Environment and Space of Light Pollution should recognise one of the important elements of environmental burdens and include them in the national environmental protection programme and, as soon as possible, prepare a regulation on the reduction and control of light pollution. Similar regulations are also being adopted in other European countries, irrespective of the fact that this area is not yet regulated by European Union environmental legislation. As an example, I should point out that such a law has the Czech Republic and that the current field of light pollution has as many as 12 Italian provinces and could also mention that I am not talking about other countries outside Europe, in South America and North America. Therefore, on the basis of the above findings, I have today given the Government of the Republic of Slovenia a renewed initiative to adopt a regulation on the prevention and control of light pollution. The adoption of an appropriate regulation for the control of light pollution will contribute to reducing greenhouse gas emissions, reducing energy use, improving the quality of life, preserving biodiversity and the dark sky for future generations, all of which are fundamental items of the national environmental programme. It is also essential to realize that the dark night sky is part of our natural heritage, which we owe to future generations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u217	Thank you. Member Willie Rezman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u218	Thank you very much. I, too, will first support the resolution for the introduction of short-term thinking. I think it's right to support her. But it probably would not be right if we just supported it and didn’t think about it. The debates so far have shown that we are dealing with these resolutions with different optics and depending on who has the optics, the attitude towards the resolution has also been shown. I think it's right that something small has been complemented by the committee, but not by something radical. The more the world for environmental protection in our national constituency has said meaningfully, and it would show more consideration, but in no way do I think it is possible to take into account those who have found only words of criticism that have not seen what has happened to us in the past decades, even though we have not eliminated everything that has been bad. Some simply abuse it so that they can be medialy present. We also have such civil society movements or entities in our possession. Some people do things by listing each individual case that's burning, but that's too much, you wouldn't be able to write everything down, you wouldn't be able to comment on everything, even though it's also right to point out individual things. I think it's possible, or it's justified, to think from different optics, in a holistic way, so we can see what's actually what we're not doing. In my judgment, we have the conduct, the knowledge, enough to eliminate the further too quickly endangering our environment, not just the Earth. In my judgment, the main problem is that we, as elsewhere in the world, do not have the strength to do what we know, will, and fear. This is then shown on individual occasions. In the emperia, it seems that we have programs, we know what we should do in a particular area of burden, but we do not hope for them, we do not have the power, we do not hope to carry them out for political and other reasons, because those who should be actors are too afraid that the neighbor will start collecting signatures and will, the signatures will gather like snow on a snowdrop and they will trample us under these snowballs. But actors will have to make a decision and someone will have to defend common interest against individual interest, which is very often so to say, just not behind my fence or near me. Here are the municipalities and mayors weak. We have also not seen here, nor have the mayors, excessive will and determination to help the country. At least it wasn't in the past. I hope something changes here, too. And of course, this fear goes to all ends and places, not only do we not hope to make decisive moves to draw the visas of individuals, the visas of neighbors, the visas of some settler. We do not hope to make fundamental moves where they are most needed in the field of the economy. Nevertheless, the economy is the one that perfets, which restores old life-style models, and it is most threatening to us as well as our natural environment. And when we talk in the natural environment, because it's not a water problem, because it's not an earth problem, because it's not an air problem, we're a problem with our attitude towards this water, with our relationship to air, with our relationship, I'd say, to diversity, with our attitude towards meeting such conditions that it's possible to live healthy, but we don't have the power to implement what we know, even realize. With an example, I can tell you how very easy we can be - not necessarily - to be of service to economic profit. For example, in a balance sheet in a given year, a water economy is shown to be reduced, say, by 30, 40% water consumption, and this is a sign of alarm. This is not a sign of satisfactory reflection that we have reduced the losses in pipes, it is not a sign of satisfactory reflection that perhaps someone has decided to save that perhaps no longer uses drinking water for technological processes and so on and so on. Because there is something else at the forefront, because what is at the forefront of the economy, as far as our normal - unfortunately, this is the way of thinking - is a way of thinking about profitability and not a way of thinking that would give nature right that it should be. Nature, that is exactly what we are and we are under our very own foundations, and if this paradigm of the way of life, as we now know what mass practice we are, continue, nature will do with us. She'll sweep us off this Earth, just like some hurricane sweeps us into some smaller local area. And that's what we're most afraid of.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u219	Thank you. We continue the debate, the next on the list of applicants is Mr Bojan Kontic. He's not here. Messenger Lucky Friend. He's not here. Ambassador Anton Kokalj.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u220	Thank you very much. The resolution that we are considering today is satisfactory at a declaration, informational level, and we can assess it positively, as my client colleague has already said, but in spite of everything possible more accurate information and also further procedures that will follow the adoption of this resolution, which I am convinced will also be endorsed or adopted in the National Assembly, would like some comments, for I think they are crucial to the more effective development of real environmental protection and nature. The first thing I have seen in the resolution itself is an assessment of the situation. In my assessment of the situation, I must say that I am missing - and even in preparing the resolutions and partners or institutions with which the Ministry communicated or verified the draft resolution itself - representatives of local communities. They are defined under the heading of those operators which can affect only the implementation of the resolution, but under the title of the Municipal Administration, which is, in my opinion, a very narrow framework. On the other hand, as I said, in the analysis of the situation or the assessment of the situation, I very much miss last year, virtually on the list of long-term plans adopted, the old long-term plans of the municipalities, which, in an implementation sense, are extremely anchored in the status of environmental protection or the state of environmental protection, as they interfere with space based on the consent of many state institutions. However, the key word in this regard is the Office for Spatial Planning, which gives the final blessing. This year, I have already warned once that a team at the Ministry should urgently review and look in particular at environmental protection conclusions or changes that have been officially approved. In fact, in practice there are extremely large anomalies on the ground. Steps, for example, into forest areas at a distance of five kilometres, some negative consensus for an attack on one hectare, some other positive agreement to intervene on dozens of hectares, because it is clearly a completely different concept than a professional and professional approach to giving these consents. That is why I think it is imperative to revise - and I have already said this once - in some way what happened to the long-term plans of the municipalities, which were under pressure from the continuously amended legislation last year also "implemented". I will continue to do so until I am a Member in this National Assembly and I will come to the conclusion of who and under what conditions has agreed to such disproportionate circumstances, which have obviously been motivated differently from professional ones. That's the first thing. That's another thing. The electromagnetic radiations that have already been mentioned today, I think they are summed up very flatly. My colleague Koren also stressed that this matter is very positive, but I think that this matter should be treated with extreme care. In fact, in public, until electromagnetic radiation, this moment, I think, is an unreally overly negative negative opinion. The point is that the antenna towers, of course, radiate. However, it follows from the profession that low-frequency waters are those with clearly defined consequences and also limit values. And these, I think, are relatively fine in the resolution itself, even with the cards. The bigger problem is with high-frequency transmitters. Above all, my assessment of the resolution itself or of further procedures should make people aware of what the use of mobile phones means in particular. I think that the average citizen in Slovenia deserves a clear explanation and an explanation of what radiation means. Because the profession knows that cell phone is actually the only problematic source in this whole matter. I would therefore suggest that the public be clearly informed in the procedures in question on the basis of the professional basis and the measurement of how this is done. As I mentioned earlier, it has already been said that water or water management is one of the key chapters, at least I think it is extremely important, but above all it seems problematic to me that the environmental benefits mentioned in the resolution are, in fact, not adequately regulated at this point in time, in particular in those environments which are not defined in the EU association agreement with a sufficiently high density of population. There are problems with returning money or spending money in investments, for taxes that are collected. As we know, these are different levies for water loading and so on. Here I think that - in the resolution itself, it is probably not possible, but forward with various legal acts - this issue on the periphery must be dealt with in particular differently. I would mention so much about this, as I have said before, a more general and girl-like resolution. Once again, I would like to mention that if we are to achieve anything serious in the environment for greater protection, for local communities or to invite together, if they do not want to participate, it is necessary to commit the legal basis to participate in these matters, because in the final stage they are the ones that are ultimately targeted and must be implemented. And if there is no adequate support at all levels, as Mr DeSUS has previously mentioned, it is pointless to adopt resolutions and laws that we do not implement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u221	I give my word to Dr. Paulette Gantar. Ivan Yelen. [[He's not here.]] Ambassador Drago Koren. [[You're giving up.]] Mojca Kucler Dolinar's emissary. Member Martin Mikolitch.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u222	Thank you for your word. A well-known distinguished minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I'm going to touch one part of chapter five, bearing the title Important Environmental Protection Actors. In principle, I agree with the finding, as stated in the resolution, that the situation in the field of municipal public services of environmental protection relating to drinking water supply, municipal waste management and the removal and treatment of municipal waste water is worrying. That is also what this resolution says. This is due to the dispersion of these public services, which cover small areas and therefore are not economically efficient, and they are also not sufficiently qualified for ever more demanding tasks in all areas where they provide their services. As a result of these findings or the current situation, the Ministry of Environment and Space, with greater control over the determination of its own price for public service services and that part of the price of public service for investments, will establish it under conditions resulting from the integration of these services within the common interests of several municipalities. I believe that this is a good thing, and in this direction we will have to continue our activities. However, I am more concerned about the continuation of environmental benefits, which are now providing a dedicated source of the state budget for co-financing the construction of municipal infrastructure for compulsory municipal public environmental services. Otherwise, the implementation of both environmental taxation regulations will be prolonged for one year if I am properly informed. I am talking about regulations which, among other things, define in paragraphs 22 and 23 how the funds collected from the state budget will be returned for investments in local communities. I also - and I repeat this because I have already pointed out this problem - this resolution states that the State will provide financial resources for the implementation of the priorities arising from the documents already adopted, namely the operational programme for decommissioning and cleaning municipal waste water and the operational programme for the disposal of waste. These documents set a priority by 2015, which means that those municipalities that are not urban are said to be in an undeveloped area will have difficulty obtaining funds within five to seven years. Again, I would like to draw attention to this with regard to coherent regional development in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u223	Thank you. The next on the list of applicants is fellow Member Cyril Testen. [[He's not here.]] The next on the list of applicants is Member Janko Weber. [[He's not here.]] The last on the list is Ambassador Alojz Sok. [[Back-up advertising.]] Then I give my word to the Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u224	Thank you very much. Dear Members and Members! Allow me to begin by thanking you for your substantive debate, both the representatives of the groups of Members as well as individual Members and Members. I appreciate that your debate was substantive and requires some comments and answers. I will not be able to respond to everything on my own. Perhaps the director of the Magi Directorate will be able to contact you shortly. Tauzes. First of all, I would like to say that the thought that one of your fellow Members has said is that it is not just about supporting the document, but also thinking about it. This is the right direction, and I support it. You know, Slovenia does not have to blush in front of its European partners and countries on environmental issues in Slovenia. This does not mean that we can be content, but we do not need to blush. Some colleagues have highlighted some of the problems that actually exist in today's consideration of the resolution on the national environmental programme. [[Then I'll give them a brief comment.]] . However, globally, we should risk assessing that the environment in Slovenia is relatively good and this could be an excellent starting point for Slovenia to make progress in this area. I'll go through some of your discussions for a while. The thought expressed in the debate of the Slovenian People's Party's Group that this document is also an opportunity to strengthen new environmental ethics and morality in Slovenia is a thought supported. And it is also important because the National Assembly is also a key political place where such a message can be made public, so I would like to put it in particular. Then came a representative of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, Mr Zmago Jelinčič, who mentioned some of the problems that actually exist. Here I can inform about his concern for the Ljubljana Barrier. On my initiative, we will now revive the idea, and we will go together with the Ljubljana Municipality and the Ljubljana Municipalities to the establishment of the Barje Park, with all the dimensions of this issue. The highlighted issue of noise was raised. A special regulation has already been adopted and would support its thinking here that it is also necessary by regulation to ensure that citizens of Ljubljana or residents living along railway lines have a quality stay. And it is a matter of excessive noise, and here the government has already decided that in the new rail infrastructure development programme it will support the construction of modern rail links and those going through cities will no longer go - but they will go in such a way that they will not increase noise and thereby reduce the quality of life of people. A negative experience in Cyprus regarding construction waste was mentioned, but this may be an opportunity to say that yesterday we began to implement the Skocjan Bay rehabilitation treaty with the implementation of a decision 6 years ago when a special law on the rehabilitation of this important Slovenian wetlands was adopted. The issue of co-natural agriculture, organic agriculture, was then raised several times in various colleagues' performances. Just today, the government has adopted a document called the Action Plan for Regional Development [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u225	Mr. Secretary, if you'll excuse me, please. Peace in the hall. Allow those who are interested in the minister's response to listen to him, who is not interested, to leave the meeting. Thank you. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u226	Thank you very much. So today the government has adopted an action plan for the long-term development of organic agriculture in Slovenia. The document, which is important, also mentions such topics as: to combine the interests of the various sectors of organic farming, to sell and promote eco-food, or to increase public confidence in organic food and organic agriculture, or to include organic agriculture in educational and advisory programmes, as well as some other orientations. The holder of this item on the agenda of the government was, of course, a resource for agriculture, forestry and nutrition, with the participation of other departments and a number of experts in this field. If I move on. A number of you have considered that this document is too extensive and imprecise, and many have found that it does not resolve certain specific issues. This dilemma is a classic dilemma for a document that is a resolution. You are in a dilemma between the general and the specific resolutions you are preparing. It is my opinion that the team that prepared this document at the Ministry of Environment and Space - I was only the main coordinator - has prepared a good document and it is understandable that some specific executions are just following up. Therefore, it was not possible to include all specific annexes in this document. It was also repeatedly said that there was a lack of an assessment of the situation or an assessment report as to how the previous resolution had been implemented. Here is where the following information is needed. The assessment of implementation was made for each measure separately and as such part of the 2002 report on the state of the environment and was also adopted in 2003, every four years this document is being prepared. It's a report on the state of the environment. In our resolution, however, there is only a summary, i.e. a summary of the report on the state of the environment. Next year will be next year. The municipalities, Mr Kokalj, were also present in this document in the report on the state of the environment, particularly in a very detailed presentation of the material on the implementation of local public services. However, if Slovenia had already active regions or regions, some elements could, for example, mention only the issue of regional waste centres, this is the typical competence of regions or landscapes and let us hope that this step will continue in this mandate, so that we can succeed in achieving it. Mr Weber, as a representative of the parliamentary group, made some critical remarks on the overall environmental impact assessment. He also consistently reiterated the debate he had already had on the Committee. Of course, we understand the comprehensive assessment of environmental impacts as essentially an administrative procedure, which is very complicated, can be over-complicated. Of course, this is not a classic software material which, as such, would appear in this document, but in the administrative process, the full environmental impact assessment also takes into account the content of this document. Several colleagues mentioned spatial issues, sustainable spatial development. It has been said that in some areas of spatial content in Slovenia - the thing is chaotic, etc. First of all, I am aware of the seriousness of this subject, but I must say that, in a meaningful sense, the national environmental programme is not a topic that addresses the fundamental strategic issues related to spatial development. In some elements, it touches them. There we mentioned them, but otherwise we have other documents, we have strategies for the spatial development of Slovenia, which is very young, and we have a law on space regulation. These very days, the issues of this law will be published on the website of our ministry, as we are going to amend this regulation. On a few specific questions, if you don't mind. My colleague Yuri asked me about the economic value of water in Slovenia or on the coast and how we will actually try to remedy this unfair situation. The fact is that different Slovenian environments and municipalities pay a very different price, consumers of drinking water. There are several reasons for this. It's a inherited state from the past few years. The most country can do is that it will successfully implement - I think one of the biggest drinking water projects in Slovenia, this is the project "Liquid water supply of Slovenia's Istrian and western Crassus" - we call it Padež. Things are progressing well, and if this project succeeds, then this area of Slovenia will have for centuries to come, I hope to say, quality drinking water, but we will also lower the price of drinking water. With regard to the protection of the coastal sea, I would ask if Mr Tauzes would answer that question. With regard to issues related to genetically modified organisms. I think this document is touching this issue. I can tell you an experience from two environmental worlds. We have dealt with this issue twice. Slovenia has been on the side of those countries in the European Union that we are relatively conservative about these issues. So be careful. Some countries are braver. Slovenia has so far been on the side of those countries that have entered these decisions with great care. This was particularly the issue of genetically modified maize, as well as some other topics. You mentioned Kidric's question. It is known that this summer the florida affected crops near a factory with a name. We know this factory. When I was informed by the agricultural chamber, I have actually taken the initiative and I also, I am coordinating the resolution of this issue, and I also hope that we will find ways to enable farmers to be part of this feed, which is now useless, to receive compensation for it of course, but those who have caused this pollution must pay for it, this pollution with the florida. The procedures are in progress. Mr Zagorac asked me or mentioned some questions related to the problems of Maribor. In these days we will sign a contract with the contractor regarding the solution of the Godon Cave at the Posnica. It will be - I as a minister just continue the project that my predecessors started. The source of this is the environmental reservation of Petrol, then the special duty we receive from waste oils, and we will resolve this issue. It's a big project. The special expert group was, which has also chosen then the contractor, and I think that in technical terms the solution is such that it will not pollute the environment in any way when it is resolved. I hope and wish that this will be a story that will also be publicly supported. You mentioned the questions of landfills or municipal landfills in Maribor. Yesterday I met with the new director of the Municipale Maribor, we talked about the issue of the landfill of hazardous waste of Metava in Maribor, here we will try to find solutions with them, with the public company Strength in Maribor, the municipality of Maribor has made some decisions in recent years, which now have the effect that Maribor will be ahead of the big question of where with the waste. I ask you whether it is the responsibility of the minister, if this is not resolved in Maribor, whether it is also a key responsibility of the municipality of Maribor and others. But, of course, that doesn't mean we won't be looking together for a solution. There are a few. I hear that in the coming days, the Prime Minister will meet with the mayor of the Maribor municipality, and this will also be one of those who will attend this meeting. It's a question of electromagnetic radiation. On page 99 of the report, this is a matter of quality, I think. My colleague Kokalj says that the issue of electromagnetic radiation and mobile phones should be dealt with in particular [[...]] [[Intermediate conversation.]] - I'm sorry. [[...]] In particular, I would like to draw attention to the commitment contained in this document to draw up a map of burdened areas with electromagnetic radiation in Slovenia. That's what we're gonna do. This is one of the first steps to be responsible in this area. Mr Mikolič and some others have pointed out a question which is related to the very nature of environmental duties and their purpose. I must warn you, and I consider this to be a success in the coming two years of environmental taxes. This is a big incentive especially for smaller municipalities, because it means that after the financial year, this money will not be lost, that smaller municipalities can connect and some investment is planned together, because one year is too little - these environmental benefits. But you also mentioned those settlement patterns where there are smaller places, smaller neighborhoods. There remains an open question of how we will deal with this. Here I see more possible resources, one is structural resources, not cohesion resources, the other is still part of the state budget and the integration of municipalities. In particular, we support the integration of municipalities according to the principle of watercourses, so that at the individual watercourses of a larger water body, a number of congregations can be joined together, both in drinking water and in wastewater treatment. I would therefore like to conclude my answer to some of your questions. Yeah, buddy Bevk. Comrade Bevk raised the issue of light pollution. This is also a civil issue, an attitude towards a way of life. This document does not in itself have certain commitments which the government will adopt. It's an annual work programme. It has been for 122 days since its first initiative and says it will persist until such a regulation is adopted in the national assembly. As he himself has found and said, there is no European directive or imperative of the European Union behind us. This is a conscious decision of our country. However, we have some experience, and the Czech Republic has mentioned some countries in Italy. I also welcome his positive attitude towards astronomy. This view is worthy of support, but, as it is said, this regulation will take place at our starting points. This is not an undertaking followed by a European programme or a specific directive. You also warn of a major energy loss. This warning has its weight. Perhaps I would conclude with the thought expressed in today’s debate. Nature can also be - I think that this can be an excellent starting point, which is not least philosophical, in relation to nature, some views of people who have philosophical opinions and other orientations are always expressed, and it is right that we can approach a slightly different approach in such a document. And once again, thank you all for the debate. And as I understand it, the vast majority of Members of the National Assembly today will also support this document. However, no amendments have been tabled in the committee procedure, so that amendments will not be voted on today. Thank you, Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u227	Since the time for discussion has not yet come, we have 39 minutes left to discuss, and I ask whether, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 71 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, anyone else wishes to discuss it. Member Bevk has the floor. Five minutes to the MP.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u228	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary has praised me, and I hope he will come from words to action. However, I would like to say this with this reply from Minister Podobnik, that there is nothing in the directives in Brussels about this. It will be sad if we act only on those things where we will, I would say, the Brussels administration with directives and in other ways order how to regulate different social areas, even if you want ecology. Therefore, I do not think there is an excuse that Brussels, through the directives, does not require us to adopt a regulation on the prevention of light pollution, but we can sometimes act on our own when we know the problem, regardless of the fact that Brussels has not ordered us to do so. Perhaps the lighted sky can be seen from Ljubljana or from the Black Summit more than from Brussels, so I think, Mr Podobnik, that it would be good for you to re-examine this parliamentary initiative, which I have also formally sent to the government today through the President of the National Assembly, and that you will prepare this regulation with your professional services. Unless otherwise, at least protect Slovenian astronomical observational centres and solve some other problems, because light pollution is not so marginal, even if you have not written it in the environmental resolution. I hope, and I expect your answer after the business deadline within a month, but I can do it before, because I know that you already have some draft regulations in the ministry, so it's basically just a matter of time and good will to make it right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u229	Thank you. Member Zagorac has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u230	Thank you for your word, chairman. Your Honors are here! First of all, Minister, thank you very much for your encouraging words. I'll remember them very well, as far as my first question is concerned, we're talking about the Poet and the waste oils and the waste oil derivatives. Because, according to the information I have, the chosen contractor for the performance of the works has decided or changed the way he will solve the problem. So, it changed the way I described it before, that this oil would transport, I don't know, the way to the railway station in the Posnica and then send it to decommissioning in Germany. As for problems in the municipality of Maribor, or problems with landfill in the municipality of Maribor. I am pleased that you have met with the director of the public company Snaga d.o.o., Mr. Žagar, who is certainly an expert in hazardous waste in Metava, but we are talking about normal waste, about ordinary waste, which we know is not yet a solution in Maribor. They are currently being packaged and placed in one temporary landfill for which three years of life were foreseen. The three years will pass or the next year will pass, and there is no solution to the new landfill. Not by the fault of Maribor City Hall, I'm talking about the city world. The City Council has decided in due time that the problem is in finance, it has been clear to us that in my previous performance I have already told you where the European funds that we have requested in the Slovenian National Party or were convinced that the city is justified, where we could get them and why we did not get them. And of course, I believe, that's why I'm asking you, in my opinion, it's the county, the county and the city administration. They are the ones who have not done what they should in time, and they are the ones who have forgotten that waste needs to be taken care of. Today, all of Maribor will suffer on this account. We all pay higher bills because we drive waste to Celje. That's a fact. And let me tell you a vision, your vision, and let me tell you who you think the Ministry is guilty of not being a dump in Maribor right now. And your vision of a solution to Maribor’s problem and waste in the municipality of Maribor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u231	Thank you. The following on the list of additional notifications is Member of the State.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u232	Thank you very much, Chairman. I'm sorry. I forgot to check in earlier. I'd say, given the situation, there should be a "sanction" verb in the title in addition to protection. Because the current situation is really very bad, let me mention only the hidden or only superficial recovery of landfills of waste and often dangerous, industrial ones. Many harmful interventions in watershed and water protection areas. But groundwaters are mostly depleted and contaminated. I am talking about fundamental natural resources and values, not inadequate interventions due to urbanisation and consumption in recent years. So, in fact, alarmingly, the situation is described only on the four sides of the section State of the Environment, a fellow Kokalj has already talked about it. There they are mentioned from climate change to biodiversity. Improvements are also described, which of course is welcome. However, the extent of this does not even matter if all the underlying degradations were mentioned. Especially mentioned black, unscanned and hidden landfills, and interventions to a space that reduces the quality of water and water catchment areas. Progress in the construction of sewers and cleaning plants is welcome, but the wells are not supervised, not only monitoring and registered transmissions of waste water from them. The municipalities are not directly mentioned, but only municipal administrations, which Mr Kokalj also found, which are defined on less than one side, on page 113. The main problem, however, is the unplanned and unbiased resolution of environmental problems and the often poor functioning of environmental systems and water supply. Above all, there is a lack of adequate commitment to solving environmental problems and managing systems by river - the Minister has warned - and water supply, water protection areas with the obligation to resolve in all municipalities' areas of the area. I think, Mr Minister, that this is essential, which you will somehow have to enforce and somehow get together the congregations to be realized in individual riverside matters concerning the burden, in fact it is called the management of all actors in a river that are affected or affect that others are affected, that this will be fully regulated. The lack - although it is probably not a matter of resolution and it is always a dilemma - what is included in the resolution and what is not - lacks at least some indicative assessment of the financial implications for the country and for the municipalities. It is true, however, that such a resolution on the programme itself is welcome and, hopefully, a serious commitment for all, not just for the state and the municipalities, but for all who are acting in an invaluable nature, which brings everything back to us and will eventually throw us out, it is balanced at our expense. We may be taught the fate of Venus, not just the planet, but those who may have lived on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u233	Thank you. A fellow Member, Aloise Sok, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u234	Thank you for your word. A respected minister with co-workers and all present! I think that such a resolution as is before us would require much more debate and debate. Here it was said that no amendments had been tabled. It is also difficult to table an amendment on the resolution, but I think what has been said in the debate itself is that you will take this into account. That is why I would also like to draw attention to two, three things that I think are somehow not worked or sufficiently processed in this resolution and would fall within this segment. It seems to me that the biggest problem will be in Slovenia, not only in Slovenia, even in Europe and around the world, how to reduce the amount of greenhouse gases. That's, he thinks that right now is one of the most important questions. We will be able to clean up the water, protect the land from pollution and not know what else, but it will be difficult to change and reduce this desire for industrial development, mainly due to developments in third countries, and to reduce the amount of greenhouse gases produced in countries already developed. It seems to me that the lack of emphasis in this resolution is one of the opportunities Slovenia has, and this is the use of wood biomass. More than half of Slovenia, 56%, has grown with forests, and we are actually using some small, 3.4% in total energy fuels. That's an extraordinary little thing. The price of oil has changed a lot lately. A lot of them have moved on to this woody fuel, but I think with some more support from the state, this could go even faster. The second question I would like to draw your attention to as a competent ministry is what happened today in Brussels. If I am well aware, the market order for sugar has been adopted. The reform, as adopted, means, I am sure, that the closure of the sugar factory in Ormož and I have already insisted that a meeting has taken place and I once again appeal to you as a competent ministry to produce an immediate backup scenario for the production of bioethanol - you know that under the European directive we have to produce it in a certain amount - and the sugar factory in Ormož is a unique opportunity and at this point it is necessary to react immediately and allow Slovenia to take advantage of this opportunity. Now there will also be funding for restructuring, and if we are at this stage together, then we can all benefit from it together, if we are not present now, then this train will pass us by. And there's a lot of opportunities on this segment. For example, neighbouring Hungary is facing huge surpluses of grain, several million tonnes, and this will also be a constant forward, transport costs are huge, we as a neighbouring country, Slovenia, could make an ideal use of this opportunity, but we must be the first. And I would like to draw attention to another issue, which we have been renewing many times in the past in this national assembly, is the treatment of slaughterhouse waste. I didn't find anything written about it here in this document. I think that the Ministry should approach a thorough change in the treatment of slaughterhouse waste, because what we are doing today is essentially causing economic damage. That all together as a risky waste is disposed of in one of the most expensive ways and a few billion per year from agricultural to energy, to electricity, that is essentially unacceptable for a normal economic development and I would like to influence you to try something on this segment. And I would like to draw attention to another matter that my colleague Kramberger reminded me of, and I have suggested that he speak to the department in question. We've got in, I'll finish right away, one specific thing. For example, in this country we allow these peasants to knee and there is a big problem with pig skin. I think because I don't have time to explain, but I suggest you look at how this is arranged in Austria, and as a department, try to find one about the same solution. I think it would do very well. My time's up. Thank you very much. I want you to take these suggestions into account. [[..]] [[a warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Thank you very much. [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u235	Thank you. The last to be reported on the supplementary list is Mr Kokalj, a fellow Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u236	In view of the fact that Mr Minister has mentioned me twice before, I would just like to apologize. I drew up the list of contributors or those who made their contribution or opinion to the resolution from the report of the Committee on Environment and Space, where the representatives of the two representative associations were not mentioned. However, I believe that individual congregations may have been involved or have turned to this, even though I know that it is sometimes difficult for congregations to engage in these problems. With regard to electromagnetic radiation, I did not want to cause any panic, but, above all, I would like to say that, with regard to those things that we do not know how to avoid anymore in our current life and without which we do not know how to live, I think it is essential that we somehow get some help from all citizens and citizens, how appropriate or appropriate to use these matters. For example, one such issue is certainly the use of a mobile phone, which in the context of electromagnetic radiation is probably the most problematic part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u237	Thank you, Comrade Bones. As far as order is concerned, leave it to me, because I write it down, who's next and when it's next. Comrade Rezman, you wanted procedural. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u238	Thank you. I would just like to explain some information that it would not be a wrong idea of what is going on in Maribor with regard to waste.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u239	No, no, no, Comrade Rezman, I have to interrupt you here, you have a procedural proposal or you don't have [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u240	To correct the wrong claims.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u241	Look, you weren't mentioned. Of course I can't let you do that. Please, if you'll turn it off.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u242	I was mentioned because I'm the mayor of the municipality that judges in [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u243	Comrade Rezman, thank you for your thought. This concludes the general debate on the motion for a resolution. As no amendments have been tabled to the motion for a resolution, we will decide on the resolution in accordance with the time frame of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 18th item of the agenda. Minister, thank you for your participation and for your answers. This concludes this agenda item. And we're moving on to 18. At the end of the day, it's on the record a motion for a decision to compare it with classified information. In doing so, I would like to inform you that a total time of 43 minutes is foreseen. Article 104 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provides that the treatment of confidential material shall define a specific act adopted by the National Assembly on a proposal from the College of the President of the National Assembly. You have been briefed on the material by the leaders of the parliamentary groups, and the proposal for a decree was adopted by the College of the President of the National Assembly at its meeting on 16 September this year and forwarded to the National Assembly for consideration. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group will be presented by Mr Boštjan Zagorac. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u244	Thank you for your word, chairman. Your Honors are here! It is high time that we also received a decree in the National Assembly on the handling of classified information that touches on the information found in this house. The Secret Data Management Order governs the handling of classified information only in this house, is stated in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The decree lays down the competent persons for the determination of classified information, the conditions for access to classified information, the criteria for determining security areas, the rules for the handling of documents at meetings of the national assembly or working bodies, and the rules for the transfer of such documents from the premises of the national assembly. I must say that we in the Slovenian National Party are very pleased to finally have a decree before us, which also takes account of Members. The information generated in the National Assembly may, in accordance with the conditions and methods laid down by law, designate the secret president of the National Assembly, which is correct, Members of the National Assembly, which we consider to be reasonable, and the Secretary-General of the State Assembly. Furthermore, Members have the opportunity to access classified information without a special authorisation, which has not been regulated so far. I must say this, at least in the Slovenian National Party, we had such experience with the former Secretary-General of the National Assembly that she did not allow Members of the National Assembly to have access to data which she herself considered to be secretive of her conviction or belief. However, I must point out that the law on classified information still needs to be amended, not least that it is possible to take into account certain provisions of this Decision. After the current law on classified information, if we look at the definition of what this secret information is, for example, a secret information that should not be used by members of the national assembly, including the name and surname, say, my neighbor or your neighbor, which certainly seems a little excessive to me. The six-month deadline for the implementation of all the necessary measures and procedures for the protection of classified information also makes sense to me that we did not rush to not set, I don't know, an 8-day period or, I don't know, a 3-day period or the day after its entry into force in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia. In the Slovenian National Party, we will support the decree on the management of classified information. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u245	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the position of the DeSUS Group of Members, Ivan Yelen. [[You're giving up.]] The following is a presentation of the position of the SDS Group of Members, Mr Dimitrij Kovacič. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u246	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President for patience and, of course, colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we support the proposed decision on the handling of classified information, as we are aware that it is also the responsibility of the National Assembly to regulate the handling of classified information and to protect it in its own house. The resolution under consideration regulates the substance of the handling and protection of classified data, which must be respected and taken into account by the Members and staff of the National Assembly. The decree we are deciding today is based on the law on classified information, and there are two other regulations governing this area. So far, the handling of classified information in the National Assembly has not been fully regulated and in one place, but only partial provisions of individual acts exist. Something has been written in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, something in the Law on Parliamentary Oversight of Intelligence and Security Services, something in the Rules of Procedure of the Intelligence and Security Services Commission, something in the Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Investigation, and something in the instructions of the Secretary-General of the General Assembly. The proposed decree only regulates matters relating solely to the National Assembly, since, with regard to other ways and rules of handling classified information, the acts of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia are applied by law. Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party note that the provisions of this Decision clearly lay down the circle of persons responsible for the labelling of data while at the same time laying down the criteria for determining the security zones. When dealing with documents containing confidential information at meetings of the national assembly and its working bodies, the manner and condition of such treatment will be prescribed by this decree, as well as the way and conditions for the transmission of such documents outside the national assembly. As all of this will now be written down and determined in one place, the matter for us Members and staff will be in the future much more transparent than it has been before. In our Group of Members, we believe that the 6-month period within which the Secretary-General of the National Assembly must adopt a security plan with all necessary measures to protect classified information in accordance with this Decision is long enough for these operational measures to be prepared with sufficient discretion, expertise and quality. As it is said, we agree with the proposed resolution in the Group of Members by adopting the proposed amendments to the Group of Members, which, in addition to some editorial corrections, also amend Article 6, which gives Members the right to look into classified information stored in the National Assembly without any restriction, which is also, of course, in accordance with the law on classified information and the rules of procedure of the National Assembly. Therefore, the proposed law, together with the amendments of the Group of Members, will also be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u247	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the position of the Nova Slovenije Group. Member of Parliament, Aloys Sok. Here you go. All I'm asking is for you to give me a replacement the next time.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u248	I'm sorry, we agreed last minute, but I'll be very brief. Given that the decree and the proposal of the amendments tabled are practically supported by representatives of all parliamentary groups, our parliamentary group will support the decree, including the amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u249	Thank you. The last presentation of the reported parliamentary group is followed by the Slovenian People's Party's Group and Member Franz Kangler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u250	Thank you for your word. Dear Members and Members. It is high time that we today adopt a decree on the handling of classified information. This is a decree that is very important for the functioning and strengthening of parliamentary democracy. This Decision lays down such classified or strictly classified information. It is very important that a Member, after this Decision, has access to all classified information stored in this house without authorisation. It is important because in the past, because we did not have a basis in the decree and because individual State-level bureaucrats interpreted the law on classified information in their own way, we had a great deal of embarrassment and often our work was limited or delayed by the work of some parliamentary commissions. It is also important to limit the storage of such data to one or two security zones. The evidence that it is important to approach the systematic processing of such data and to take care of the protection of such data is also important when, for example, the Commission on Intelligence, which operates in the National Assembly, decided to operate in the so-called quiet room. For the so-called silent room, the electronic blockade and some other measures, we have somehow ensured that the data we are either meeting or identifying ourselves have not left the quiet room or the national assembly. By this decree, we will ensure greater transparency and review of the information bearing the code in secret or in strict secrecy and will also come up with a list or register of certain data bearing such a designation as they will be present in this area. [[security area 1 or 2]] This information has been stored. Also in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that the six-month period within which the Secretary-General arranges for the implementation of this Decision is sufficient to adapt the situation in the National Assembly, so that this decision can be implemented as soon as possible. Therefore, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, together with the amendments we have signed, we will fully support the decree.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u251	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate followed by the following Members: Pece, Friend, Žgajner, Zagorac, Barovic, Tribality. This leaves Ambassador Davorin Targeton on the list. [[He's not here.]] This concludes the general debate. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and amendments tabled, which I will lead on the basis of the review of the amendments of 23.11.2005. I am giving the title and amendment of the Group of Members to the debate with the first-signed Dimitry Kovacic. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 4 and the amendment of the Group of Members with the first-signed Dimitri Kovacic. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 6 and the amendment of the Group of Members with the first-signed Dimitri Kovacic. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 8 and the amendment of the Group of Members with the first signed Dimitry Kovacic. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 11 and the amendment of the Group of Members with the first-signed Dimitri Kovacic. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 12 and the amendment of the Group of Members with the first-signed Dimitri Kovacic. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 14 and the amendment of the Group of Members with the first-signed Dimitri Kovacic. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided today in the framework of the vote, in half an hour, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, that is, at 7.30 p.m. I hereby terminate this agenda item and the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 7.30 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u252	We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Before we go to the vote, please ask Members and Members to check the functioning of the voting apparatus, namely, the orange light must be on the right hand side of the card; in this case, the vote may take place. We continue with the 20th item of the agenda - to consider the report on the work of the Anti-Corruption Commission for the period from 1.10.2004 to 23.5.2005. We are moving on to a decision on the draft decision proposed by the Commission to the National Assembly under the anti-corruption law: The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia took note of the report on the work of the anti-corruption commission for the period from 1.10.2004 to 23.5.2005. Here you go, Mr. Gulic.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u253	I'd explain my voice in my own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u254	Mr. Gulič, does your debate refer to a conclusion?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u255	To the store, yes. I will support the decision because I agree with what is also stated in the report, because it is done in the right way and is in line with all that the anti-corruption commission is supposed to do during that period. Of course, I also have to stop at some things that have been read backwards, forwards and forwards. Of course, it's hard to say anything about it, because this committee hasn't worked yet, it's been working for a year. In contrast to the obvious fact that she has dealt with herself many times and that she has not dealt with back comparisons, she is completely out of line. Clearly, she had to establish herself. There's no comparative data for back-up. In contrast, the question of whether this corruption is less or less is inappropriate, since this could only be compared if the Commission did not have and would have it, but would have been compared. And forward - it is very difficult to say what the effects will be, but it is known by more stargazers, those who write horoscopes, and predictors of the future. So that's too much. The report is perfectly correct and the decision is appropriate, so I will vote for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u256	We're voting. I note at the end of the vote that 63 Members and Members were present, 54 votes against 1. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I'd ask you again if you'd let me run the session. Thank you. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to point eight. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, the assembly will hold a vote on the Witness Protection Act on Wednesday, 30 November 2005, following the end of the agenda of this meeting. We continue with the end of the 11th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the proposal for a law amending the law on research and development activities, the reduced procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is the decision on the amendment tabled. The amendment was tabled under Article 1, the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group of Members. Mr. Gulic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u257	Honourable Presidents, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. I will, of course, support the Social Democrats' amendment, because it does represent a guardian for what has, of course, happened fully to the law. For the law in some way lays down or allows fundamental sciences to be very quickly deleted and to remain in applied sciences, on the other hand, of course it does what I think is very wrong, the right thing is allowed by the State to also control scientific and research activities in full and thus, of course, terminates the autonomy of these institutions. The third thing, which I think is dangerous in itself, introduces some kind of bypass lustration, so that at least in the field of humanistic science, people who think with their heads would be punished in some way. The final result, of course, can also mean that young researchers and, above all, people of their own spirit will begin to withdraw from this country. On the run of the brain, which we like to talk about, this is further stimulation and, of course, we can also experience that we have only a small brain in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-11-24-SDZ4-Redna-11.ana.u258	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is closed. I note that from 65 members present, there are 17 votes in favour, 44 votes in favour. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 44.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. Since the amendment has not been adopted, we are moving on to the third reading of this law. Since no amendments were adopted in the second reading to the amended proposal, the third reading of the amendments cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the law. In doing so, I inform you that the legislature or the government has not informed me that the law would be inconsistent. We're voting. 66 present, 42 to 21. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 21.]] I therefore note that the law has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 12th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the proposal for an amendment law on the provision of air navigation services - a reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill in the context of a reduced procedure. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to table amendments in the third reading, so we are moving on to a decision on the law. In doing so, I inform you that the Government or the Legal and Legislative Service has not informed me that the law would be inconsistent. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. Present 66, for 60, against no one. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. We continue with the end of the 13th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the proposal for a law amending the law on Members - the reduced procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "The proposal for a law amending the Law on Members is not suitable for further consideration." We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. 65 present, 39 to 18. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 18.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision, and therefore the legislative procedure for the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 16th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the motion for a resolution on the national environmental programme. As no amendments have been tabled to the motion for a resolution, we are moving on to a resolution decision. In doing so, I inform you that the Government or the Legal and Legislative Service has not informed me that the resolution would be inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision and we are voting on the resolution. 67 Members and Members present, for 65, against no one. [[The vote was 65.]] [[No one.]] I note that the resolution has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 18th item of the agenda - the consideration of the proposal for a decree on the handling of classified information. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to the proposal for a decree. First amendment to the title. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Group of Members, with the first-signed Dimitri Kovacic, to the title. We're voting. There were 63 in attendance, 63 in favour, against no one. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it this amendment has been adopted. After each amendment, we will continue to make a special decision. I would like to say this only to you that I would not repeat that all the amendments are amendments by a group of Members, with the first-signed Dimitri Kovacic. We're moving on to Article 4. Amendment to Article 4. We're voting. 67 present, in favour of 65 votes against 1. [[The vote was 65.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We vote on the amendment to Article 6. We're voting. Present 63, 61, against no one. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 8. We're voting. 65 Members and Members present, for 65, were not voted against. [[The vote was 65.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 11. We're voting. 65 Members and Members present, 63, against none. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 12. We're voting. 63 in attendance, 63 in favour, against no one. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 14. We're voting. Present 63, 61, against no one. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the management of classified information in its entirety. We're voting. 65 Members and Members voted for 64 against none. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I find that the decision is fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item and interrupt the 11th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. Good night!
