ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u1	Dear colleagues and colleagues! I hope you had a nice and relaxed time last night, which would be the only thing fair, given the world's justice day. And given that two days ago World Tourism Day was devoted to transport, obviously that didn't help much today, because many hear that they have traffic problems and travel to the National Assembly. We continue the 9th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and cannot attend today's meeting of the following Members: Ivan Yelen, Mag. Vasja Klavora, Janko Weber until 3 p.m., Zvonko Černač until 4 p.m., Ljubo Germič from 4 p.m. on, my shortness from 4 p.m. on, Alojz Posedel and Jožef Školč from 4 p.m. on. We're moving on to 12. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Vacation and Leisure Act in the Republic of Slovenia, abbreviated procedure. The total time for discussion is 2 hours and 45 minutes. The draft law was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mrs Mariti Cotman, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs for further explanation. The word is yours, Mrs. Cotman.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members and Members! The Act on holidays and holidays in the Republic of Slovenia entered into force on 22.11.1991. Since then, especially in the last year, there have been quite a few public controversy and also proposals regarding new holidays and marking important historical landmarks. At its 18th meeting, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia addressed the proposal for a calendar of State celebrations in 2005, which also envisions marking two anniversary, namely the return of Primorska to her homeland and the merger of Styria and Prekmurje with her homeland. The mother's working body then adopted an additional proposal to designate as a holiday also August 17th as the date of the merger of the Premurese Slovenians with the native nation. Thus, the bill proposes the introduction of three new holidays, namely on August 17th, the merger of the Premurese Slovenians with the native people, September 15th, the return of Primorska to the homeland, and November 23rd, Rudolf Maistra Day. The new proposed holidays are not part of the day off, as the setting of new days would result in a certain drop in working hours or an increase in obligations for employers, thus affecting the reduction of the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy. In addition to the introduction of the holidays mentioned above, it is also proposed to change the name of the holiday which is celebrated after the applicable law on 26 December as a day of independence. By changing the name of the holiday, the new name of the Day of Independence and Unity would like to highlight the weight of the decision and the unity of citizens and citizens of Slovenia, who decided on their own decision on plebiscite in December 1990 for Slovenia. On the basis of the presentation of regulation in other legal systems of EU Member States, we explain that the proposed holiday arrangements and holidays in the Republic of Slovenia are still comparable, although at the upper limit with the arrangements in other European countries. With regard to the financial implications in 2005, two new national celebrations were provided. There are no other financial implications for the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft law was also considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons as the working body of the mother, so I ask Mr Stanislav Brenčič, Chairman of the Committee, to present the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u4	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! Nice to meet you! Introductoryly, I also welcome Mrs State Secretary, who was on the stage a little earlier. The Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Work, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons has considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Act on Holidays and Work of Days in the Republic of Slovenia, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia at its 8th regular session on 15.9 this year, following a reduced procedure. A representative of the proposer participated in the work of the Committee, namely the Minister for Labour, the Family, the Social Affairs Mag. Janez Petty Officer. The Committee was informed of the opinion of the Legal Service. This did not comment on the proposed text of the law. The amendment of the group of Members with first-signed Joseph Horvat to Article 1 was also tabled shortly before the hearing. In the debate on Article 1 and the amendment tabled to this Article, the representative of the amendment proposed by the amendment stressed that their proposal should not be disputed from a historical point of view. He agreed that Rudolf Maister is an important person for the entire Slovenian space, but it is difficult to tie identification to him by joining Prekmurje. The acquisition of Prekmurje for the Slovenian people is one of the rare bright points of the events at the time and a holiday in the light of Slovenian national history should not be disputed. He lives in the consciousness of the Prekmurski Slovenes as an important date on August 12th, when the Yugoslav army seized Prekmurje. However, from a legal point of view, the most acceptable is August 17th, when the interim civil administrator took over Prekmurje. This is the date by which it is also possible to identify itself in Prekmurje. In the ensuing debate, members of the Committee expressed their satisfaction that the Government had submitted to the legislative procedure a proposal for amendments to the law, which would mark two anniversaryes of historical significance for the Slovenian people. They also agreed that the holiday, the day of independence, which we celebrate on December 26, should be renamed the day of independence and unity. It was pointed out that consensus had been reached in all political parties. The two proposed holidays also have support in the general public. The Government disagreed with the amendment tabled by the Group of Members because it believes that the proposal for a law is sufficient and appropriate framework for the establishment of the northern border, the acquisition of the work of Koroška and the merger of Prekmurje with the motherland after World War I to be symbolically celebrated as the Maistrov holiday in Prekmur. In principle, the members of the Committee supported the proposed amendment in the debate, as they considered it necessary to take into account the opinion of the people of Prekmurje that Maister was an important figure for Slovenian space, but it was difficult to identify with him in connection with Prekmur's accession. At the same time, the view was expressed that there are still many important events in the history of the Slovenian people, which would also deserve to be marked. However, there is a need to find a reasonable limit to those. Some discussers felt that Rudolf Maister was large enough to be able to symbolize all efforts at the end of World War I, since without his actions as such Slovenia would certainly not be. The Committee adopted the proposed amendment by the Group of Members and adopted all the articles, in accordance with Rule 126 of the Rules of Procedure, and all of this is contained in the amended proposal for a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u5	I thank the chairman of the committee. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members and I invite Mr Boštjan Zagorac to present the position of the Slovenian National Party. Apparently, the position will be presented - I apologize - by Mr Victory Jelinčič Nobleni.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Have a nice hello to you all. However, we will get two holidays in Slovenia, which will mean a lot to the Slovenian people. Two holidays that had been shut up for a long time and not talked about. It is understandable that the accession of Primorska did not discuss this for several reasons. One reason is that the Slovenians did not get Istria, which Croatia received as a communist gift. And that the Slovenians paid this Istria they received from Croatia with the loss of Trieste, Gorica, Furlania, Julian landscape and about 140,000 Slovenes living there. But now we celebrate the return of the work of Primorska to the homeland. That's September 15, 1947. This date will be honored, for there was a peace conference in Paris, which opened the door, when other Slovenian, indigenous Slovenian national territories could still be obtained. I'm afraid we didn't. The Communist Party was more engrossed in obtaining parts of Macedonia, Vojvodina and others than in acquiring Slovenian territory. They made a cow trade and the Slovenes didn't get it. And yet I am pleased that it has been accepted that the government coalition has adopted a proposal from the Slovenian National Party to celebrate this date, 15 September, and not any other. For if we celebrated the date proposed by the Liberal Democracy, we would be the same as each other's people from the former country, Serbs celebrating the defeat in Kosovo's field. We too would celebrate defeat, the burning of the Slovenian national home, which is the time and date to remember it and to honor it, but not to celebrate it. The second date is Rudolph Maister's day. And although we will celebrate during this date also the connection, return, return of Prekomurje, not Prekmurje - Prekomurja is named after Slovenia - to the mother of Slovenia, it is important to be aware, despite the name Maistrov, that many of the Master's fighters, who were actually issued by the Yugoslav authorities at that time, have been issued by Ljubljana and banned by Maistra from retaining those areas that he has occupied, and have called him back. If Master hadn't done what he did, we wouldn't have Maribor or Styria today, maybe not even Celje. In short, Ljubljana, as usual, always stabs the Slovenian national identity and the Slovenian people in the back. Well, but many of the Maister's fighters then passed to Precomure and there they continued to operate in 1919 and also in 1920, when unfortunately again the Ljubljana authorities left part of Precomour to the Croats. In short, Ljubljana's policy has always played a pig's role as regards the Slovenian national issue. Perhaps these moments of these holidays are a short and small compensation for those moments, for those times, for those lives, for those sufferings of people who were then invested in keeping the Slovenian land in one piece. Sadly, we failed, or some sold and sold all of this together. It's known to a great extent who. But let's leave it at that. As far as the day of independence and unity is concerned, it is only right that we name this holiday in this way. I think that makes sense. However, I think it would be significantly better if we moved the holiday from December 26 to December 23rd. On 23 December, he was voted on for his independence day, and then independence was voted on. It was only 26th that Mr Bučar announced that. I think it's important to respect the date we decided, but not when someone had the time and it was the message "Urbi et Orbi". Therefore, I think it might be reasonable to accept and approve the amendment tabled by our fellow Member. Otherwise, we will be happy to support the law in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u7	Thank you very much. On stage, I invite Mr. Mag. Franca Žnidaršič to present the position of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u8	Dear President, Honourable Secretary of State, colleague and colleague! The parliamentary group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will support the law, for reasons already commonly known. In this way, in order to introduce three non-working days, we will not, in fact, waste any opportunity to aggravate the competitiveness of our economy at the expense of more days off in the country and, on the other hand, eliminate the deficit of marking important moments in our national history. I think it is right that we understand the Master's day as a day that will be a memorial for all Slovenians, because Rudolf Maister is undoubtedly in the mind of the Slovenians preserved and respected as a man who has taken care of our northern border. The celebration of the accession of Primorska and Prekmurje to the homeland is of a more local character, but there is no doubt that it is extremely important for people in that environment on the one hand and for all of us within our country in this sense that we understand their interest, that these days of joining these areas and people to the homeland are also marked as memorial days and are celebrated as such. Since the law will have no financial implications in this respect, we will support the law, as drafted by the government. We will also support the amendment of the Group of Members for this third day of Prekmurje. I think we will take this step forward in the field of the atmosphere of our common life even in the holiday area, even though it is. There's not much, there's not much that works days off. This makes it perfectly natural and good for us to support these solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u9	Thank you very much. It is up to Mrs Maria Possonec to present the position of the Hungarian National Community.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u10	Your Honor! After repeated experiments, the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Holidays and Work of Days in the Republic of Slovenia is only before adoption. This law should, according to its contents, be adopted with great feeling. His content should not offend the feelings of any resident of our country. It's a holiday of a connecting nature, so let's think about whether that's really the way it is. The law is the answer to the situation 80 years ago, because after the storms of World War I, both Slovenian and Hungarian nationals, the winners, were cut to pieces. One third of the Slovenians remained outside their homeland on this account and two thirds of the territory of the Hungarian State remained under foreign authority. I wonder if that's the reason for the celebration? So, I'd like to draw attention to Slovenian cousins who have stayed outside the queen's border. After this event, many Slovenian and Hungarian families began their minority lives. These people paid their taxes with blood, as of the group of 35,000 there were only 6,000 left. The same is true of the Slovenians. Should the homeland celebrate the fact that many Slovenians are in the Land of Our Lady in Koroška, in Rezija, in the Valley of Canals, and elsewhere outside the queen’s border? I believe and truly believe that the Slovenians and Hungarians have been such small things in the hands of great powers, so there is no reason for us to celebrate large and triumphantly not one, not the other. After joining the EU, these major traumas slowly subside and after 80 years something wonderful has happened. The dismembered limbs of the national body can come to life under the common sky of the EU. Our grandfathers couldn't even dream of such things. We were able to redirect our civic sense to those members of the national body who were doomed to extinction. Instead of looking forward together to the new opportunities of living together, it does not seem necessary for me to open old wounds every year with the inflation of holidays. Would it not be better to celebrate a day of independence and unity, for we are a nation and tribes from which each one has his own holiday? The holiday is only a holiday when it is celebrated with an open heart and a free spirit by a neighbor. The holiday takes place in hearts and not in laws and on paper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u11	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Jožef Jerovska to present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Representative of the government! The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group will be complemented by a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on holidays and holidays. By implementing three national holidays, which touch on major events, for Slovenia's Styria and Koroška, for Slovenia's Primorska and for the integration of Prekmurje with its motherland, we will finally highlight the united Slovenia in the consciousness of the Slovenians. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we estimate that it is high time for the state of Slovenia to create a comprehensive system of state holidays, which historically accurately and comprehensively reflects the most important events and personality in national history. State holidays and memorial days contribute significantly to the building of human personality, create its identification with national history, cultural heritage and co-form national pride, patriotism and civic consciousness. As early as 21.4.1997, before the 50th anniversary of the Primorska merger, the Slovenian Democratic Party tabled a draft law declaring 15 September a State holiday, the date on which the Paris Peace Treaty was established. Unfortunately, the then government and the parliamentary majority of this proposal did not support it. This day is very important for Slovenia and symbolizes the national pride of the Primors, their perseverance, their resistance to travel and fascism and their loyalty to Slovenia. In spite of the extraordinary decommissioning that gained the dimension of the ethnocid at the time of fascism, the first in Europe began with a resistance to fascism initiated by the Tiger organization. We are reminded of this by Bazovic and her heroes, Danilo Green, as the first victim of the armed conflict and the partisan heroes of the national liberation rebellion of the Primors, of which I should mention only Janka Premrla Vojka. The actions of this fight and, above all, the outstanding importance and primacy of the mutiny of the Tiger organization have, unfortunately, been deliberately silenced for many years. We are pleased that this year, at the anniversary of the accession of Primorska, a national celebration has already been organised, which has been celebrated and taken by the Primors for their own, accepted by all the Primors and the whole of Slovenia. Therefore, we can eliminate the efforts of some totalitarian individuals after the re-delivery of the Primors and the Slovenians. Time is even more distant from the great acts of our ancestors, which we have abolished by the observance of the Memorial, on the day of Rudolph Maister, 23 November. On the day Maister's fighters disarmed the German green guard, Maribor was freed. At the symbolic level, we mark the fight for Styria, Koroška and Maribor, the accession of this territory to Slovenia and the memory of Rudolph Maistra, the Maistro fighters, the first Slovenian army, where it was commanded in the Slovenian language that it was, and the army that fought this victory. Without these actions, today's independent Slovenia would not be. In the fight for the northern border, General Rudolf Maister played the most important role, with the rapid mobilisation of the Slovenian army, which numbered 4 thousand soldiers and 200 clocks, so the first General of the Slovenian army was entitled. Without Maistre’s determination, commanding courage, sacrificial heroism and high national consciousness, the history of the Slovenians at the turning events of 1918 would have been unsuccessful. Unfortunately, in the years that followed, some made sure that such an important achievement in Slovenian history, as well as the classic national hero Rudolf Maister, was left in the shadows without proper observance and without involving these events in the nation's memory. As we mark the events related to the North Border, we cannot go beyond the mention of the magnificent struggle of great patriotism and the national pride of the villagers of Libelič. Their struggle to return to their homeland is something unique in Europe, as they achieved a change in the terms of the peace treaty with their unwavering patriotism and returned Libelièa two years after her signature to the country's embrace. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we also support the proposal that also August 17th, the date on which the civil administrator has taken over Prekmurje's administration, declares it a state holiday, a memorial day for the merger of the Prekmurje Slovenes with the native nation. The acquisition of Prekmurje for the Slovenian people is also one of the great bright points that contributed to the rounding up of Slovenian national territory. The efforts of Prekmurje patriots, led by Dr. Matija Slavič, the head of the report for Prekmurje within the National Council for Styria, have made a decisive contribution to the conclusion of the peace conference that Prekmurje belongs to the then kingdom of SHS, Slovenes, Croats and Serbs.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u13	Mr. Jerovšek, time!
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u14	Good. We also support the festivities of 26 December in the SDS in order to [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u15	Thank you, Mr. Jerovska. Dr Marko Pavliha will speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your replacement as well. Dear Madam Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we believe that the holiday marking of historical events, which occupy an important place in the history of the nation, must not become a matter of political prestige and competition between political parties. With the introduction of a bill and some additions we proposed to implement two new national holidays, namely October 5th, the date of the conclusion of the London Memorandum as a day of remembrance of the role of the coastal Slovenians during fascist violence and the victims of World War I and World War II in Primorska, as well as August 17th as the date of the accession of Prekmur or Prekomurje to Slovenia. Some of our members have further proposed to the National Assembly to consider the introduction on 12 August as a holiday for young people, which would show at a symbolic level that our society is aware of the importance of the development of the young generation, which is a guarantee for social, economic and cultural development. It would be the only holiday so far that would be seen in the future and not in the past that separates us too many times. Judging from the reactions of some political parties and from the fact that the government has also decided to honor the accession of Primorska, Prekmurje and Styria to Slovenia, our proposals have obviously been justified. In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we believe that these events deserve not only a reminder of the national celebrations, but the implementation of the state holidays of one or three, namely the unity and integration of Primorska and Prekmurje and Styria, which would symbolically surround the efforts of Slovenians to live in a single country. In our House of Representatives, we wanted to choose the most appropriate dates on which there is consensus. Since the question of setting holidays for us is not a matter of political prestige, we have also been prepared to support the dates that would be co-formed in the agreement of all parliamentary groups on the basis of a proposal drawn up by the Government in accordance with a dominant, public and professional opinion. It also appears that setting holiday dates is something the ruling coalition does not want to let go of. She did not want to listen to the bill's proponents who had renounced their proposal and were willing to take part in the setting of dates for which all parliamentary groups would agree, and the basis for an agreement would be a government proposal. It grieves us that the position has forgotten several times the stated willingness to cooperate with the opposition in addressing issues that go beyond client programmes and coalition contracts. The opposition demonstrated its readiness and offered its hand, but the ruling coalition unfortunately failed to cut it. Nevertheless, in the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we will support the government's proposal for a law. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u17	Thank you, Mr. Pavlich. Mr Bevk alone will speak on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u18	Thank you for saying so, Mr President. A respected choir! We already have a third law on holidays, which we are considering in the National Assembly this year. This time, a government that has the only chance of being adopted by nature. In addition, the novels proposed by the Members of the Social Democrats have been tabled. I regret that, with such an important symbolic act as the adoption of holidays, the government has not done enough to try to harmonise and take into account the different views and proposals. In the Socialist Group of Members, we believe that the celebrations of new holidays, such as: the memory of the suffering of the Primors by fascism and the return of the Primorska home country, the struggle of General Rudolph Maister with the northern border, the merger of the Prekmurski Slovenci with the native nation and the day of independence and unity, should represent actions taken by the National Assembly with a consensus. We have always argued that the search for suitable dates should contribute to integration, not to the distinction and competition between different political parties and groups in the Slovenian space. We will support the Government's proposal and the supplementary law on the Home Committee. However, we have tabled an amendment concerning the date of the celebration of the day of independence and unity. So far, most of the proposals for amending the Act concerned marking the accession of Primorska to Slovenia and the suffering of Slovenians under Italian fascism. I think the government has made the right decision to propose September 15th, which is the date of the entry into force of the Paris Peace Treaty. This proposal was already signed by some Members of the Social Democrats in 1997. This year we had a national celebration before the law was enacted, which was welcomed by the Primors and all Slovenians, citizens and citizens. Nevertheless, we would expect more historical credibility when assessing individual events and historical processes, because if we did not have partisans and national liberation struggles, we would not have received Postojna and Idrija. Throughout the entire history process of the 20th century under the activities of General Maister at the end of World War I in Styria, until the accession of Prekmur and from fighting fascism between the two wars to convincing military victory and national liberation in II. The World War, which has made a decisive contribution to the accession of Primorska to her homeland and to the independence of Slovenia, when we made efforts for state autonomy and sovereignty and international recognition, follows the idea of a united Slovenia. When the government came in early this April or this year with the idea of proposing a day of independence among other holidays, but did not say when and what events this holiday would place on, I, along with my colleagues, introduced a new law on holidays and proposed that we celebrate the day of independence and unity on 23 December. The plebiscite decision for the independent and independent Republic of Slovenia, 23 December 1990, can be marked not only as a day of independence, but also as a day of unity of Slovenia and Slovenes and of all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. In its opinion, the Government stated that the proposed amendment to the law, or in this case the amendment, does not constitute a new holiday and consequently an additional failure of working hours or an increase of obligations for employers, so the proposed amendment or amendment to the law does not in principle oppose. However, the holiday arrangements depend on the assessment of the representatives of citizens and citizens in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, the government then wrote. That is why I call on you, fellow Members of the Social Democrats, to join us in supporting our amendment and the law in its entirety. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor on behalf of New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u20	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Good day to you, fellow Member, fellow Members, distinguished Secretary of State! Discussions on the proposals for new Slovenian holidays are relatively often on the agenda of meetings of the National Assembly and the Committees of the National Assembly. The Act on holidays and holidays in the Republic of Slovenia entered into force in November 1991. Since then, especially in the last year, there have been quite a few public debates and proposals regarding new holidays and markings for the Slovenian people of important historical events. The purpose of the holidays is to continuously maintain human consciousness, its affiliation, its identification with something, such as cultural identity, religion, history, country or nation. Keeping consciousness is the easiest thing to do if people can identify themselves with a holiday without a lot of effort, which is invested in advertising the holiday and the education of holidays or the Memorial Day. Surely any constructed holiday that has no place in human consciousness or memory is a holiday without need. It is also understandable that the young country of Slovenia is still looking and will probably be looking for holidays and memories to identify its citizens and citizens. Finally, last May, following the clear will of its citizens and citizens, the Republic of Slovenia became an equal member of the European 25-member family, which it will certainly be able to celebrate together. In the New Slovenia Group we welcome the government's proposal for a holiday on September 15th, the return of Primorska to her homeland. That the solution is the right one proves the recent celebration of this holiday, which can serve all of us as an example of a rich celebration of the national holiday. We also regret that the types of facts that our younger citizens and we also need to know better in historical textbooks, which, of course, does not apply only to Primorsko, but perhaps even to Slovenia, are insufficiently addressed. Among other things, this is our important commitment and our duty to correct this situation as soon as possible. General Rudolf Maister, the first Slovenian general, with his courage and merit to establish primarily the northern Slovenian state border, no doubt deserves his memorial day. The government proposes the 23rd of November as a holiday, on this day Rudolf Maister disarmed the German armed city guard Marburger Schutzwer, who was under the command of the German-led city council. Since then, the Slovenian authorities in Maribor have no longer been seriously threatened. We also support the government's proposal that December 26, the Day of Independence be renamed the Day of Independence and Unity, by which we wish to stress the weight of the decision and the unity of citizens and citizens of Slovenia who have decided to choose Slovenia alone. I would also like to add that we supported the amendment of the group of Pomeranian Members, which introduces the third holiday into the law, which is August 17th, the Association of Prekmurski Slovenci with the Mother Nation. We've heard a lot about this holiday and thank you for your support. I may tell myself about the reasons and the contents of the memorial day a little later in the debate on the amendment. Let me conclude by stating that 15 September 1947, 23 November 1918 and 17 August 1919 are extremely important milestones in the historical growth of the Slovenian national whole. They are therefore part of the Slovenian national memory as a national holiday. The New Slovenia Group will complement the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on holidays and working days in the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Finally, Mr Stanislav Brenčič, this time on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u22	Thank you very much again for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The festivals change people’s daily routine, which is sometimes full of grays, and they give us a warm welcome. That's why we need holidays as a variety of other things. With public holidays, we usually mark and celebrate the memories of events and individual milestones that have been marked by a nation, both fate and history. It is necessary to have a sense of measure, for if the holidays are too many, the truthfulness of their mission is divorced, regardless of whether they are not working days off. Certainly in the Slovenian People's Party's Group we support and welcome the introduction of three new holidays, which are not part of the day off, which, given the relatively large number of hours that the free holidays already require, is understandable. These festivals mark events that were not long ago hot or unwitting to the brink of social events. Despite the fact that they have been or have had a key influence on the design or, rather, what is at stake in the present state territory of the Republic of Slovenia. In the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group, we are confident that all three new holidays will be held on August 17th, the merger of the Prekmurski Slovenes with the mother nation, September 15th, the return of Primorska to the motherland, and in particular November 23rd, Rudolph Maistra Day, not only in Primorci, Prekmurce and Štajerci, but in all Slovenes and Slovenes, they will give birth to a new domestic feeling, which is still needed mainly by young families. Therefore, we will gladly support the proposal of the law, with the conviction that as a nation we are becoming more proud in ourselves of the hard way of our ancestors, who have practically sacrificed everything for the nation at a given time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u23	Thank you very much for your last presentation. We have also concluded with the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate on the article and the amendment tabled, which will be guided by a review of the amendments, which, as it is said, covers only one, of 28.9.2005. So we are talking about the 1st article I am putting to the debate and the 2 amendments, namely the New Slovenia Group of the Social Democrats and the New Slovenia Group of Members. Who wants a word? Mr. Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u24	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. As it is said, at the beginning of April this year, Members of the Social Democrats have tabled a novelty of the holiday law. We wanted to include in the marriage what the government had been saying for a while that it would do. In order to propose a new holiday, this is a day of unity that is to be celebrated in May, every time in another province, in another Slovenian city. However, she did not know the exact date or historical event on which she would lean. Since our marriage has not yet come to an end, this is the second time we have tabled an amendment for a new holiday, a day of independence and unity that we would celebrate on December 23rd, the day of the plebiscite in 1990. With independence we have made efforts to achieve state autonomy and sovereignty and the international recognition of Slovenia. The self-sustainment process took place in the final phase from the Majnik Declaration, constitutional amendments in 1989, through the first multilateral elections and plebiscite, held on 23 December 1990, and the self-sustaining war until the acceptance of the Republic of Slovenia into the United Nations Organization in 1992. This has included a long-standing effort to realize the identity of the Slovenian people in various state works. As a result, the Slovenian policy gradually formed a consensus on Slovenian sovereignty and how to achieve it by 1990. The then government coalition and opposition, on the plebiscite question of whether the Republic of Slovenia should become an independent and independent state, have united as never before in its national history. Therefore, the plebiscite decision on this issue in the general public vote of 23 December 1990 can be considered not only as a day of independence, but also as a day of unity of the Slovenes and Slovenes and of all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. It can therefore be referred to as a day on which all the various previous efforts and activities to build Slovenian statehood and the ideological differences and contradictions expressed in this regard have been taken into account at the same time. For Slovenia alone, 95% of all those who participated in elections that December 15 years ago voted. All these facts confirm our belief that all these events together contributed to the decision on 23 December on plebiscite, which our ancestors sought, to the independent and independent Republic of Slovenia, the country of all its citizens and citizens. With the proposed amendment, the Social Democrats want to achieve that, in all of the mentioned and unlimited events that have had a significant impact on the existence of the Slovenian people, we remind ourselves of the plebiscite decision, thus linking the day of independence with the day of unity. In this way we would repay all our ancestors who hoped to dream of united Slovenia and who, with their work and also their life, made it possible for us today to be a proud and recognized nation in the world and Europe. Let me reiterate that the government, in its opinion on our original law, has said that the proposal does not mean a holiday, a new one, and consequently does not result in an additional working hours. Therefore, she did not object in principle to this law. I think that's the way it is about our amendment. However, in concluding her opinion, she wrote a note at the time that MEPs and Members would decide on their conscience. In our view, this law, or this proposal for December 23, for a day of independence and unity, would become more applicable. This is also shown by the dates of the national celebrations and festivities of the National Assembly from 1997 to 2004, which I have looked at through the archive. In 1997, we celebrated December 22nd, December 1998-23rd, December 1999-23rd, December 2003-23rd. The year 2001 alone was an exception when we celebrated December 26th. Then we had the festivities of the National Assembly and the national celebrations: in 2002 - 23 December, in 2003 - 23 December and last year on 23 December. So they already knew in the protocol and those who run these events that it's a suitable date and we're summarizing that date. Businesses have collective leave at the end of the day. However, with the appropriate organisation for working rhythm, I think that other economic, social and public infrastructures would not be disturbed. Therefore, my fellow Members and colleagues, I propose that you accept and support our amendment and that we today have the opportunity to legislate on 23 December as a day of independence and unity, when 95 of all Slovenians and Slovenians and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia decide on the plebiscite that we will be an independent and independent country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u25	Thank you very much. I give my word to Mr. Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u26	Thank you for your word. So, here are two amendments, if I'm properly informed. I'd like to talk about the other part. Since I'm a Styrian, I wouldn't get much circumcised at the seaside holiday. November 23rd is probably never a dispute. Even if it were a day sooner or later, General Maister did so much at that time that he would be good every day. However, I would like to say that because a certain change is needed, because of the new holiday of August 17th, which we have some concerns, it is likely that someone else will back up their thinking. Therefore, this amendment is also necessary to correct certain things. At the time, General Maister played and played a slightly broader role. It's just about Maribor, but it's not like that. General Maister played such an important role that we can credit the entire lower Styria remained on the Slovenian side, just to him, and to the Wall Bridge and Sava, it is said, the whole. If Maribor had remained German then, it would have been said that if it had not been for this action on November 1st, Maribor would have remained a logistics centre for the German military. Since the railway was the only serious and competitive infrastructure at the time, and since the German line covered the entire railway line to the Wall Bridge, it would not have to do much to keep the entire Lower Styria German, including Ptuj, Cel [[I'll back it up later with some records from the time I got them.]] . But something has to be taken into account. At that time, in 1918, following this railway infrastructure through Maribor and then through Radgona, Ljutomer, Prague, Ptuj, Čakovec to the Hungarian border returned to hundreds of thousands of soldiers from different fronts in Europe, so this railway connection was so much more important. If General Maistre and his actions had not happened, then Prekmurje would have remained enclaved in this area and had no connection with the rest of Slovenia's ethnic life and no conference would ever and never have awarded enclaves to anyone who had no connection to this territory. That's why I think this August 17th is still a little bit in the other light - and let me just finish by reading the thoughts of General Maistre and his contemporaries, which have regulated his notes, just so that I can back up what I said, that no one will think I'm speaking. The record, General Maister wrote: "To move the military and to connect with Ljutomer and Prekmur was urgently necessary for me to get into possession of the Spile-Radgon track. I've already taken the pins, but on 1.12., it was Radgon's turn. After a military transport to Radgona, which numbered 140 men of the Maribor infantry and was commanded by Benedikt Zeilhofer. Only that the Prekmurje has never been released with thoughts and actions of gentlemen, I mean, General Maister." That's it. At the time he confirmed the chiefs at the stations of Maribor, Špilje, Dravograd, Velivec, Sinča vas, Pragersko, Ptuj, Hoče, Celje. This is true, this confirms that his action was important for the entire East Styria. In addition, he appointed traffic controllers for the Koroška route to the Sinča village. That's now in Austrian-Korocese. And for the track of the Poets, the Spies, the Radgon, the Ljutomer and the Hotch-Prager to the Greek border, that is to say, to the Hungarian border. That's what he says he had in his work circle or command at the time. Now for the conclusion of this famous August 17th. Even the Premur Slovenians were prepared to fight with weapons to liberate themselves. General Maister, under whose leadership the struggle for the northern Slovenian border at the Styrian section was fought, is a military action for the liberation of Medmur. That's Medmure. This is not Prekmurje - supported by two troops of the Maribor foot regiment. However, the military action to liberate Prekmur was prevented by the selected Prekmur legionaries. The Serbian Supreme Command, which felt bound by the Belgrade armistice of November 13, 1918, and the French military mission, which also felt connected to this truce. The Belgrade armistice also felt bound by the Supreme Command of the Serbian Army and the French military mission during Soviet Hungary from 21 March to 1 August 1919. The French military mission, however, calmed these people and convinced them that Prekmurje would in one way or another recognise the Paris Peace Conference to Yugoslavia, although the issue of Prekmurje's nationality at the Paris Peace Conference this time for Yugoslavia has not yet been satisfactorily resolved. Conclusion. But only when Yugoslavia was recognised as Styrian Podravje with Maribor is the top world of the five, this is what the negotiators of the great five in Paris on 8 July 1919 also admitted to Yugoslavia once again. But only when Yugoslavia was recognised as Styrian Podravje with Maribor. That's what I said before. If it weren't for General Maister, there'd be nothing. On 15 July, the Yugoslav delegation to the Presidency of the Peace Conference submitted a further request for Prekmurje to take up military occupation. On 1 August 1919, on the day the Soviet Hungary was demolished, the Supreme Council determined that Yugoslavia Prekmurje could occupy certain borders. The Yugoslav army marched in Prekmurje on August 12, 1919. This isn't about dates 12 or 17. It's an act we're celebrating. Are we celebrating what caused this connection to take place, or are we celebrating it later when the consequences occurred? No army could have set foot in Prekmurje in 1919 if General Maister had not taken over the Lower Styria in its entirety and allowed the whole of Styria to be recognised as a unit in Slovenia. I will, of course, support this, because everyone who wants to celebrate this 17th August, okay, let him, anyway, the Styrians have their holiday with General Maistre. However, I wanted to highlight this August 17th from another point of view, that everything was not as it appeared. But if we look at the reasons. But the reasons were General Maistre's. General Maister was also thinking about Prekmurje, working in Prekmurje, sending troops there. Of course, what was happening at the Paris Peace Conference was only the consequences of what General Maister failed or could not do. But what he did was a condition that we could celebrate today on August 17th. That's all I wanted to show you was this 1919 event in a different light. Once again, General Maister was the one who had the credit for what happened later in 1919. I have my thoughts on August 17th. Just like some others who have already said here today. But I'm also going to support the Stajers getting our holiday. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u27	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Miro Friday.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u28	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Hello, everyone in this room! One very beautiful thought is written in the explanation of this law. The Slovenian heart is in Koroškem and the Slovenian lung is in Trieste. The seamen receive their holiday through this law, and this historic injustice will be corrected. I also support the amendment that speaks of the holiday, the merger of the Prekmurski Slovenes with the native nation. But let us ask ourselves: What about the Slovenian heart that is in Koroška? On this occasion, I would like to mention the event that colleague Jože Jerovšek mentioned, which is just Libelič in Koroška. This is an exceptional case in Slovenian history, where the Libelicans with the reeds, with persistence after two years, achieved that the Libeličs returned their homeland. In 1920, a criminal border between Slovenia and Austria was drawn with plebiscite, a criminal plebiscite. And at that time, the Libeličes, although the Libelicans voted mostly to join the then Yugoslavia, were assigned to Austria. But in view of all the protests, given that the Libelicans had moved the borderstones, that they had all gone through civil disobedience, the boundary commission in Maribor in 1922, decided on 30 September that Libeliče would return to their homeland, the country of origin. On October 1st, the Libelicans held a great human celebration. I am aware that every Slovenian village cannot have a national holiday or its memorial day. But Libelièa could be remembered in some other way. Perhaps in this national assembly we could consider giving Libelich some status as a congregation. Otherwise, there are only 700, 800 souls living there today. However, in 1849 and much later, the Libelite congregation was formed. Otherwise, they were still trespassing in today’s Austrian territory. Perhaps the Libelicans could also face the challenge of building a modern road connection between Dravograd and Libelič. In short, there's a lot of chance. Above all, in this country, we should not allow ourselves to be told by the Libyans today that they regret that their ancestors had reached the point of returning to their homeland by 1920 to 1922. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u29	Thank you very much. I'd like to take Mr. Zicherl's word.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u30	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Nice greetings to everyone in the hall! I cannot support the Social Democratic Party's amendment for a number of reasons: as a technically educated person, I hold to the point that things that are well-run and well-run do not change. In the case of the Škophelolian Social Democrats, who do not exceed the flags on this holiday, as they do not exceed them on 25 June, it is in principle irrelevant whether this is on 26 December or 23 December. But I'm going back to production. According to the new holiday, about 22 would finish work in the factory, meaning that there would be a larger or smaller party, 23rd would be free, 24th service, 25th free and 26th collective vacation. This in factories like Sava and Terme, where I worked, of course, is out of the question. 24. Turn off the oven, which takes a long time, and then a large repair begins. I think that similar technological processes are even more in Slovenia, and something that is already under way is certainly not desirable to change. Well, then I'd also like to warn you, as my colleague said today, about the inflation of the holidays. I could also propose two holidays myself, namely October 26th, when the Yugoslav People's Army left Slovenia and then real freedom began, as well as May 9th, the day of Europe, is nowhere in particular defined. In this amendment from 26th to 23rd, I see in particular the interruption of the processes already under way, the celebrations already under way and the proceedings in the factories already under way, which is why I will certainly not support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mr. Ferry Horvat has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u32	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! I support both amendments and support this article, which also represents the entire content of the law. The law is very short, record short, but in my opinion it is very important. And I will be very happy if there is as much consensus in the vote as it has been in the debate here at the assembly as it has in the working body. I also particularly support the solution to the addition of the 17th indent for the integration of the Prekmurski Slovenes with the mother nation. Finally, I have also signed the amendment with my colleagues, and I am pleased that the amendment has been adopted with understanding and responsibility on the Committee, and as I understand it, the Government does not object. I recall that there have been debates in the debates about whether there should be more holidays or whether there should be one holiday to mark all mergers of individual parts and Slovenians in the home country. But if the opinion has already prevailed, and the position also presupposes to mark the date for Primorsko and Maistrov's day, then I thought it was inevitable that the day for the merger of the Premurski Slovenes would also be marked. If we did not do so, this would be discriminatory for the Prekmurski Slovenes in relation to the other Slovenians and other parts of Slovenia, and in fact the correct, equal treatment of the Prekmurski Slovenes as an equal and equivalent part of the Slovenian people and of the Slovenian State. The proposed initial solution, as I said, would essentially constitute discrimination. Such a solution corresponds to historical facts that are impossible and no one wants to change them, nor is it good to silence them, as has been the case so far, even in the case of Prekmurje. The fact is, and this has also been shown by the debate of colleague Petan, that this debate and adoption of the law should also be the reason for further complementing Slovenian history. Because it is in the case of Prekmurje that historians themselves warn that a number of things have not yet been thoroughly processed in Slovenian history, which is important for both the Prekmurje Slovenes and the Hungarian National Community. Both nationalities and both nations have been given through difficult history. However, this is no reason for us to go beyond this and that this history would not be accurately recorded and also marked by significant events. It is high time that this symbolic way also recognises the historical significance of the merger of the Prekmurje Slovenes with the native people and accelerates the real integration of Prekmurje within the independent state of Slovenia. Indeed, what Comrade Petan says, if we read one of the important people, Dr. Mati Slavič, who was one of the bearers of Prekmurje and Prekmurje's associations, was also a participant in the peace conference, and this is precisely the cooperation of Prekmurec and Prekmurje with the right bank of Mura, Štajersko. If we read these texts, we could say that they are still very current today, and they mean actually some kind of integration, some kind of wider region formation. Then through the right bank of Mure, through Prleje Slovenski Gorica, Maribor also led the way to connect Prekmurci in the economic, cultural and other fields with other areas in Slovenia, then Yugoslavia and wider Europe. At the same time, it is necessary to say that even in Ljubljana at the time, even less in Belgrade, there was no special preference for all of this. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u33	I beg your pardon, Mr. Horvat has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u34	What happened in Prekmur and what Maister and his associates did is so much bigger. [[...]] And let me finish by talking about not splitting up the holidays, but getting together. I absolutely agree with this and I also agree with the thoughts, many thoughts, fellow Members of Mary Possonec, but I would like to stress this, especially on our politicians, on us who bear our entrusted responsibilities, either in Parliament or in the government, that we will do everything, even after the adoption of this law, that it will not happen, that anyone who is offended will be unjustifiably or that it would mean any separation, but that we will do everything in our particular case for further good and even better co-existence between the two nations, Slovenia and Hungary, or members of the Hungarian National Community, to strengthen cooperation not only within Prekmurje, within the State of Slovenia, but now that we are both in the European Union, Slovenia and Hungary, even more fully cooperate between the Slovenians and Hungarians on both sides of the borders. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u35	Thank you very much. My word to Mr. Zagorec.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u36	Thank you for your word, Your Honor. In the Slovenian National Party, we will support the first amendment to the first article, as it is essentially a proposal that we have included in our proposal for a law, which you know was then, I think a few months ago the government did not support. By saying that this amendment is essentially an idea or solution proposed by the Slovenian National Party. The fact is, too, that the former authorities, either deliberately or unintentionally, sought to destroy Christmas and the day of independence as we celebrate it in this law. The fact is that both holidays are celebrated in half a day today - people are half celebrating Christmas and half a day of independence. The fact is, in fact, we Slovenians decided on December 23rd for the independence of our country. And if you look at the celebrations on the day of independence, we can see that fewer diplomats and politicians and even citizens of the Republic of Slovenia are attending these celebrations, simply because they celebrate a family holiday at home, it is Christmas. So, as I have already said, in the Slovenian National Party, we will support the first amendment to Article 1 for good, as proposed.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr. Tarchoon has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u38	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would say that the amendment of the Social Democrats Group seems to me to be correct and it would be worth considering, however, whether the day it was decided was more appropriate than the day the announcement took place. I think it is also appropriate that Prekmurians get their day, although it must be said that the concerns raised must also be taken into account. On the other hand, it is true that this gives us a large number of holidays, not working days off, but a large number of holidays. In my speech, I would like to devote a little more attention to the circumstances that have fueled the fact that it is obvious that we will get the Primors 15 September than our day, that is, the day of the return of Primorska to the homeland. For I myself have been a proponent - and I think it is right that these circumstances be clarified before the adoption of this law - because I myself was a proponent on 13 July, i.e. the day of burning the National Home in Trieste, as the date of marking the suffering of the coastal people. Many debaters also touched on the celebration, which was essentially a state celebration on September 15th. I must say, for the first time, that in some way I would even congratulate the existing authorities, that they rushed - maybe the previous one didn't know how to rush so fast - and that she prepared a really nice celebration in Portorož, which, according to my judgment, had two very important mistakes. The first mistake was that there was no one at the celebration, no speaker, no one mentioned it, nor spoke it in Italian. We say that holidays must unite us both in Slovenia, but I think, given that we are in the European Union, they must also contribute to the European spirit. This was neither European nor cultural nor in the spirit of our legal legislation. And as far as I can remember, these celebrations have already been, indeed not in the organization of the state, but if it was an area for a bilingual area, however, it has been tried to take into account that there is also an Italian minority, and that would be cultural and also in this case. I think that such a warning is necessary for the future, and that this must also be taken into account, because this, as I have said, is a leading culture and ultimately our European integration as well as our legal system, which gives our fellow Italian nationals a special place. The second thing that bothered me at this celebration was part of the Prime Minister's speech. I think the speech was mostly correct, but the part that judged historical facts was, in my opinion, inaccurate and even incorrect. It was said that the Communist authorities had missed the opportunity to join Trieste, Gorica and Venice. Let me warn you that Venice was lost in 1866, and that it was probably unable to give the subject at the time. I think that such a border was established after the hard negotiations and, as far as the words are concerned, I would say, "Many people will be judged by action, not by the "walking" of some predecessors who tried their best to do the best for this nation." And I join myself in this because I didn't know at that time whether we were in mourning or celebrating, that if there were no partisans and national liberation fighting, it would be very likely that there would be a border somewhere else in the Mountain. Back then, it was a celebration of what we got and not what we lost. But as for how they're going to judge someone, I'd suggest we judge them by their actions, but it doesn't look good. They can't agree on a single tear in the Gulf of Piran, but not for a wide area as wide as [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u39	That's all I'd ask, Mr. Tarchon, is to focus more on the amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u40	Yes, Mr. Chairman. Now I'm going to do what I predicted. I myself proposed July 13th as the day of the burning of the national home. Many have told me that I am collecting sad dates and that this is not the case with the Slovenians, because we are already too sad, although the neighbours have gathered a sad date for them and even though we already have sad dates in the legislation. I formally proposed this in Parliament, but I warn you, this was not my invention, this is what the Coastal Associations of the Union of Fighters proposed and this was also proposed by the Association for the Care of Regular Traditions of TIGR. I have this document here, especially for those that are full of TIGR's mouth. See in this document, where this society is written in 3rd paragraph, this was 3.3.2004, when there were discussions in this Parliament. It says: The company TIGR proposes to receive Memorial Day 13.7. The day burns down the people's home, so I don't read the explanations. If you have discovered him now and now praise him, why not listen to him? If I ignore the Unions of Fighters and say that also a large part of the Slovenian Corps in Italy, the Slovenian minority is very fond of this date, because symbolically and significantly more than the 15th of September, that I do not speak here many more. Since it is primarily trying to determine in these debates that history began yesterday because many have mentioned and tried to rehabilitate the TIGR in some way, as if it was not rehabilitated, I must tell you that I attended the discovery of the monument to Danil Zelena in Senożec, where he was at home, which fell on Mali Gora, as you know, where the celebration of 2000 was one week before the national elections. At that time, the then president of the country was present at the opening. And these were times, as I understand, after the steel times, when there was still continuity. I agree that in steel times the Tiger was silenced and that he had no place of his own. However, toward the end of these leaded times, when democracy was already at a higher stage, and after its independence, when it reigned after your continuity, this injustice was rectified and acknowledged. And that history didn't start on Little Mountain with the rehabilitation of the Tiger. We could also, for example, support the amendment to the budget for a monument in Syria, which is called a tiger monument, and you did not do so. So if you mean with actions and history seriously, do the same. Obviously, these dates could not be adopted in previous mandates. Clearly, the current opposition is not so keenly prepared to confront, and these dates will obviously be adopted. I want them to get in the way, too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u41	Thank you. We have a procedural proposal. Mr. Brenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would ask the President to direct this debate, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, because I do not know what amendments we are talking about. I have two amendments tabled in this debate that have been tabled. And all that I've heard so far, I haven't found anywhere in the amendment. There is no amendment to be a holiday of joining Primorska another day, and so on. I don't know if this is how we're going to lead the debate, and then we're starting to divvy up the truth of the proposed holidays. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u43	Thank you, Mr. Brenčich. I estimate that your comment is in place. I ask all the following panellists to stick to the amendments to Article 1. The next one to be tabled for discussion is Mr Moge.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u44	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much for your words. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Parliament is a place where we can talk. We already have a limited time, and I hope that we will not go into the content in this way. The goal can be reached in several ways. I'm going to make this goal that I'm going to express and say what I think about this amendment, but I'm going to make a note: think globally, but do it locally. The ancient Latins said the famous saying, "Tempora belli nullius repecrus", times change and we change with it. Man is changing, the universe is changing, and countries are changing. [[Back-up advertising.]] Comrade Jelinčič, you know, it was over before every beginning. [[Back-up advertising.]] May I continue?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u45	Mr. Mogue, please proceed.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u46	Thank you very much. I'd say next. When I thought about these amendments, I thought about my destiny, so I looked at my personal documents, from the birth certificate forward, and I never once wrote down that I was Styrian, but I remember from the early years that we shared in Lower Styria, that we were Slovenians, and in Upper Styria, that they were Austrians. And if now I say Styerc - if anyone tells me Styerc should say Slovenian Styerc or Lower Styerc, but all of the divisions we are talking about and the holidays, they were essentially based on the countries, at least Styerska, who once belonged to Austro-Hungarian, and this country was changing. We do not have an administrative note now called Styersko, which is why I think the following is crucial when we consider these amendments. Look, not so long ago, people were changing the country with wars, and this war wasn't self-produced, but we had winners and losers. Every war had its victims, every war had its ugly crimes, and on the basis of these festivals, which we are now celebrating, we have tried to give a measure of consideration to people who meant a great deal to the nation and have meant a great deal to the independence of the nations. Apparently, we all respect February's holiday in memory of the great Prešern. But now that we are in the stage of globalisation and are going to Europe, and without one shot fired, we have agreed to transfer some of our sovereignty to Europe, but we must be in this game of market economy and we must support creativity, we must support science, and we must also enable people who are sitting here, better life and better things in life. At the time of my consideration of this amendment, it would be a holiday and a holiday for me to be in the National Assembly if, at the same time, we also tried to adopt a law that would allow these poorest regions of Prekmurje, Styria, Koroška, White Krajina to have an administrative identity and not just a historical, geographical identity, and on the basis of this, our country has also given us authority to enable us to live better in this country. The holiday is only for the awakening of what we have passed through a thorny path in the past, so that now we can sit here and rule in this country is a praiseworthy act. It's an act of honor. I mean, respected colleagues and colleagues, so that they could remember Prešeren when he said that power and honor with it will be ours before they return. I think that with this holiday we are returning the honor of a certain direction, while we are now once again for the authority of the deaf, and this law will be supplemented only when we adopt such a law, which will allow people living on the outskirts of this country a part of the power and thus a better life. However, I certainly agree with my colleague Pozsončeva, who said that holidays should unite us and I feel that if I quoted Prešerna earlier, I should quote him in the end, not the devil, but the neighbor will be the limit. That one harmony prevails here between us, one understanding and that we are doing something that will not only be useful at the symbolic level for the people we represent, but will also be useful at the material level and at the existential level of the people we represent. It seems to me that this amendment, through this prism, what I've been saying, whether now this or this date will not change the essence of this law. If we accept this date or those dates, with great respect we can remember all those who were in this area, with due respect we must remember the exudus of the Primors, who went across all of Slovenia and were accepted by the Styrians, so that, again, we use the Styrians, every fifth Styrian in fact, the Primortz, who also blessed us. With all due respect, I find it hard to argue and to account with one another at this festival, not worth this meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u47	Thank you very much. I know that it is difficult to discuss strictly only the amendments and these relatively small changes. But I would remind you of the rules of procedure that the debate should not go beyond these limits and I would kindly ask you to stick to it. Mr. Juban has the next word.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Chairman. I will support both amendments, although it is likely that it will be clear that I will deal with them as a result of another. First of all, let me just say that my dates are less important to me, but that's because of events that happened in a connection and then what happened. To be honest, we must admit that the idea of an amendment that took place on the home work body came after the Primors said that, in amending the law on State holidays for Primorsko, they would say how to celebrate its accession, and that is the result of our initiative and the amendment that took place on the committee of work and so on, it is not the result of some political invention of two Croats, Fick, Slavinc and Juban, but it is the result of some consensus between the historians who have considered the matter. They were also those who openly admitted that they could not be defined and there were several events that prompted it to happen, that Prekmurje joined, and then chose August 17 as a suitable date. We did not accidentally think of the role of General Maistre in any way to underestimate, acknowledge, or accept all the explanations that speak of his role, the space of Styria where he worked. Maybe just a fix so much that he got to Radgona, Radgona's on Styria side, not on the Prekmurska side. And it seems to stay out of it. Then we chose this option. In order to really avoid any damage or inappropriate consequences of this decision, where we tried to maximize the intervention of the Hungarian national community, that we did not want to interfere in any way with their emotional areas, even the text of the amendment, which in the original talk of Prekmurje, changed and then turned into joining the Prekmurski Slovenes and meant that those who tried to understand something else, as it might mean the original text, could really affect anyone. It seems to me in the interim and I am pleased to note that, in the same way as in the other part of Slovenia, this part of Slovenia has also been rounded up with some celebration, which I think was initially said that these holidays, which will not be part of the day's holiday, will allow especially local celebrations, unlike the State which is something else, and of course that the Prekmurians would be able to celebrate in this way. Thank you very much, and I think we will support the marriage with the majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u49	Thank you very much. I invite Mr. Jozet Horvath to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u50	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. My debate will refer to the second amendment to Article 1, which, I hope, is merely editorial in nature and is the result of the mother's working body of the adopted amendment, which introduces the third holiday, that is, the 17th August – the merger of the Premurese Slovenes with the native nation and I hope that I will be allowed to do the same. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u51	I beg your pardon and your peace!
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u52	I hope that I too will be allowed to discuss the reasons for this amendment. Therefore, the signatories of the amendment adopted on the home work body, with the initial proposed solution for the holiday of the Prekmur connection, mentioned only in the explanation of the law, were not satisfied in the context of the events at our northern and eastern borders at the end of World War I and directly after it. However, I would like to point out that there will be no misunderstanding that the role of General Rudolf Maister at our northern border at the end of World War I will be exceptional, and that we do not want his importance with the proposed special, so-called Premur holiday. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u53	I'm asking nicely for peace in the hall! Mr. Horvath has the floor. Please, this is true of everyone. Mr. Horvath, continue and the rest of you go out of this room, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u54	At the same time, I would also like to repeat what some colleagues have already said before me that we do not intend to hurt our feelings with this holiday, and I will say to our Hungarian national community, with which we live together in Prekmurje. I think it is right that we celebrate together all Slovenian and all Hungarian holidays. At least that has been the practice so far, and I hope it will be in the future. The National Council for Styria, led by Rudolf Maister, had his own report on Prekmurje, led by Dr. Matija Slavič. Dr. Matija Slavič, also rector of the University of Ljubljana, is an important person of "disruptive" events and as a reference to Prekmurje in the context of the Yugoslav delegation to the peace conference also one of the most deserving of the conclusion of this conference - that Prekmurje therefore belongs to the present Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenes. Today's debates and the guidance of historical sources, such as the esteemed colleague Petan, and mine in the following, I understand as complementary parts of the whole. I would also like to point out once again that at least Prekmurje we do not know our history. We don't have a book called Prekmurje History from which we and the younger tribes could learn. I reiterate what a well-known Slovenian historian and member of the Slovenian Academy of Science and Art has told me that it is also our task to write this history in the form of a book in the near future. For example, as far as historical sources are concerned, in May 1979 scientific symposiums were held in Radenci. [[Here's a book I'd love to borrow.]] . This symposium was titled Revolutionary Vomiting in Pomour in 1918 to 1920. Let me list a few references: a member of the Slovenian Academy of Science and Art Prof. Dr. Rudi Kiovski, Prof. Janko Liška, educator Miroslav Kokolj, doc. Dr. Dushan Nechak, Prof. Franz Zadravec, Senior Research Fellow of the Institute for National Affairs, Dr. Tone Zorn, Franz Sibenik and others. In his report, Miroslav Kokolj states, inter alia, that on 3 January 1919, volunteers Jerič and Kuehar asked General Maistra for emergency assistance, which was missing. Certainly, I reiterate, Maister is an important person for the entire Slovenian space, but it is difficult exclusively to bind identification to him by joining Prekmurje. The acquisition of Prekmurje for the Slovenian people is one of the rare bright points of the events at the time and holidays from the point of view of Slovenian national history should not be disputed. Slovenians, due to the loss of Koroška and Primorska after World War I, have never really understood the extraordinary importance of gaining Prekmurje, which is of its own internal power - I stress, from its own internal power - remained faithful to Slovenia. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I will quote again the famous Slovenian historian and member of the SAZU, who says: "This is one of the wonders of Slovenian history."the end of the quote. We cannot avoid national holidays as long as we have a national state and exist as a nation. Nobody does that around us. In the consciousness of the Prekmurje Slovenes lives as an important date, as has already been mentioned today, also on August 12th, when the Yugoslav army occupied Prekmurje, but we find it most acceptable on August 17th, when they organized a great celebration in Beltinci in 1919, at which a large assembly gathered over 20,000 people. And when Prekmurje's administration was taken over by a temporary civilian administrator, the so-called civilian commissioner. The celebration will not start in Prekmurje or Slovenia by adopting this law. It has been celebrated in Prekmurje since 1994, according to the 75th anniversary of Prekmurje's accession to the homeland, although Slovenians who lived in Prekmurje have always had Prekmurje for their homeland. In the past Prekmurje was called Slovenska krajina, which is a very beautiful name to me personally. This year, according to 1994, in Prekmurje, in the municipality of Črenšovci, which was born at the time, we also discovered a monument to the honorary canon Joseph Klek, who has the greatest credit for maintaining the Slovenian language in this part of the world. By the way, let me say that the festive speaker was Mr Loize Peterle, then Foreign Minister of the Republic of Slovenia. To all who are in favor of this law, which we are considering today, I thank and thank you also for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u55	Thank you very much. My word, Mr. Fick.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u56	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A nice greeting to all of you! I, too, will talk mostly about the amendment that resulted from the adoption of the amendment on the parent's working body. I'm very glad that amendment got back there. I expect today too. However, I am of course not sad enough that the proposal had to come from the initiative of the Group of Members, and I myself have been in this group. In fact, as Mr Bevk earlier said, the government has not listened to all the facts in the drafting process, but has not taken all the facts into account. This is very true, and if this law is, of course, to be adopted, it also confirms the need to listen to a little bit of Premur's work. Why did the proposal come about? Just as Primorska proudly celebrates the events related to Slovenia's accession, so all of us, as well as the other Slovenians, must also allow Prekmurje to celebrate the accession of Prekmurje to Slovenia with pride. The area of Slovenia has been very diverse in history in terms of territorial integrity. Unfortunately, part of this was Prekmurje. At the initiative of the government, I am very pleased to see the name Rudolf Master, which is very important in the history of Slovenia. Even with regard to the accession of Prekmurje to Slovenia, I have no objection to the fact that in explanation of the holiday of Rudolf Maistr, the credits for joining Prekmur are also mentioned. Unfortunately, I can't accept the fact that Rudolf Maester was determined to do so. It can be one of the reasons, and with our proposal we never wanted to underestimate Rudolph Maister's merits. We wanted to highlight the date that is important for Prekmurje, and this is the day that Prekmurje is part of Slovenia. That when the Yugoslav army arrived in Prekmurje, Rudolf Maistra’s soldiers were also among them, of course, it was very good. I would like to point out that the attack of war was not an intervention of war. That it was easy for an ambush. And if I tell you one story about those events when the Yugoslav Army came directly into contact with the then Hungarian Army and in communication, of course, the Yugoslav Army of Hungary asks you what you are here and the Hungarian Army replied that they are here, the army that oversees this area and the Yugoslav Army says, from now on, it is us. And the Hungarian army simply picks up their equipment and leaves. So she accepted that fact. The fact has been agreed upon or negotiated in any way. Somewhere near Paris, experts have agreed on where the Prekmurje area belongs, and I cannot challenge that fact. That's what they agreed on. They probably had reasons for it. Indeed, this new demarcating has resulted in a number of Hungarian families, as said by respected colleague Pozsonchev, coming outside the Hungarian border. It is also true that after this new division there are several families outside the country of Slovenia on the Hungarian side. But I would like to point out that many more families have been under a country that was not Slovenia all this time. So, under Hungary, and only 80 years ago, there was some kind of merger with the native nation. And if we talked about Puh or -h or -h days ago, let me tell you a story from Prekmurje, where there are many cemeteries on the monuments of the inscription in Hungarian spelling. And when children, elementary school students, who already know words that already know sentences, who already know the term of the country, including the country, ask me what it is, why it is. And you have to say the fact that the country of Hungary used to be here, and that this is an inscription in Hungarian. And they're asking, of course, like children when it happened, and how it was, and you're saying that it was a long way from my grandparents.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u57	Mr. Ficko, a debate on the amendment, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u58	I'm confirming the amendment. Of course, after you explain that it was so far back, they ask whether we are celebrating it or whether Slovenia knows this date and from now on I will be happy to tell them that it will be the 17th of August, that this day, which we will especially celebrate with pride, I hope that the rest of the Slovenians will too. We didn't want to expose Hungarian minorities anywhere. Slovenia takes very good care of the Hungarian minority in Prekmurje, which is inappropriately better than the Hungarian state's concern for the Slovenian minority in Przebje. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u59	Thank you very much. For the sake of greater transparency, I will read who is next, if of course this time will allow: Rezman, Jelinčič Nobleni, Dr. Slavinec, Gulič, Bevk, Pecan and Sok. Mr. Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u60	Thank you very much. When we are dealing with rational proposals for the adoption of the celebration law, I think it is right to confirm them. When we are dealing with rational proposals for amendments that improve, I think it is also right to confirm them. I myself assess the two proposals of amendments that I think we should be talking about, which, in my opinion, is appropriate briefly, to make sense. Those who speak of December 23rd, the day of independence and the day of unity, especially because, for the first time, they went to hundreds of thousands of people and made their decision in the polls, and because only a few days later, hundreds of people announced what the other hundreds of thousands had confirmed. So it seems to me that it really makes sense and really makes sense and in favor of a historical fact, in favour of the truth - and let the holidays serve the truth as well. However, the second reason, I think, is that because of its functionality and its special character, it is appropriate to celebrate it when it can be attended by as many people as possible, both domestics and those who come to our country from elsewhere, and not when everyone is on their way to a celebration or return to their families in other countries. That's why I think it would be right if we didn't think about who suggested something, but whether he suggested it smartly, and we can confirm it smartly.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mr. Jelinczych the Noble.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Well, I've already said that we're going to support the amendment or that I'm going to support it, because after all, it's a meaningful amendment. He would also have something to say about the other amendment, and perhaps he would also correct some of the mistakes that have been made. For example, it was said that the Hungarian state was in those areas that had returned to the framework of the mother of Slovenia. It wasn't a Hungarian state. It was an Austro-Hungarian monarchy. This is something other than a Hungarian state. In addition, I think it is pointless and improper to speak about the integration of Prekomurje into Slovenia. It's about getting back in, if I say poetically, in the arms of the motherland. Could we say rejection for reunification, reunification. It's true that holidays have to be combined. But I don't know why some people fight so hard that they have to team up, I don't know who else. In short, we will say here that they will also have to join Slovenians and Finnishs, Slovenians and Welsh, and perhaps later Slovenians and citizens of the Republic of Congo. I think that holidays must primarily unite Slovenians within Slovenia. And that is why I also support this idea of August 17th, as the holiday of the return of Precomura to the mother of Slovenia. At the end of 1994, when it was the 75th anniversary, we were very few politicians in Murska Sobota at the celebration. I was one of those guys. However, I missed, well, Mr Jerovšek was also, but I missed 90% of the national assembly and the then ruling structure, which he did not think was worth celebrating this holiday with his presence. Even when it was said earlier about Tigris and how some were at the opening of the monument to Mr Zelen, it is necessary to say that the Slovenian National Party financed and paid for the discovery of the monument and the construction of the monument to Justo Godnic, who was also a Tigervec. And at the end of the day, my uncle Zorko Jelinčič was the one who founded the Tiger. For these are the facts which are indisputable. And so it may also be necessary to raise funds to place this monument as soon as possible to the border fighters, the one against Italy, where we lost a vast part of the territory. It's called Tigers. Perhaps one day we will also have a good day when we will discuss in Parliament when we will celebrate the return of Istria to the home country. This is also a moment of history, a moment of truth and a matter that we will have to accept and accept someday. The end of history, however, revolves in as much a just direction as it does. And given that Croats steal territories on all sides around them, they eventually have problems with Bosnia, with Serbia, with Montenegro, with Slovenia and recently with Hungary. This will come to the fore, and one day even this "butty" Europe will wake up and find out who these people are and what they want. After all, what they have now begun to point out in their ministries is that they are not of Slavic descent, a fact that was first published in 1939 and continued over the duration of the "independent" country of Croatia and beyond. Next, of course, quietly, because it has been banned in one particular period.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u63	Mr. Jelinčič, amendments, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u64	Once again, the amendment seems to make sense to me, first and second, and I will support both amendments. However, perhaps there is something else to discuss, perhaps another time at another forum, or in here, also the question of Koroška and the question of Maister, which we are giving him, and perhaps even a little weight, because it is necessary to realize that plebiscite was essentially self-trusted by Austria on October 10th 1920 and that the representatives of Antante at that time essentially confirmed this, even though they knew that it was a fraud, since the then Yugoslav state was otherwise too strong and excessive. Of course, once again it was Ljubljana's policy that she didn't care about, they wanted to keep the Ljubljana's "governatory" and rule in it. That was enough for Ljubljana politicians. I think it is also necessary to say something about the inappropriateness of the decision when some say that it may not be appropriate for Maistra to be given along with the holiday of the return of Precomura to Slovenia. Maybe that's a little far away. Despite the fact that his fighters were also members of these forces or units of the Yugoslav army that returned the area to the mainland of Slovenia. It makes sense for us to celebrate on August 17th. After all, Slovenia would have lost nothing, had no extra day off, and would certainly have done people something good and suited them. Everyone wants to celebrate their holiday. And if you don't identify with some holidays, that's not good. That is why I think it would make sense even if my colleagues Prekmurci tabled an amendment or some law amending the law or something like that. After all, it would not be such a big problem that it would not be able to do so, and I think there would be a large enough majority here to confirm the matter. Once again, Slovenia has only just begun to wake up because of these celebrations and because of its history. History has been pushed away from us, although it is still pushed away by some in certain political parties when they say that Slovenia is 12 years old and 15 years old, and so on. However, this is said by those who care little about Slovenian countries and who are in fact doing better for Italians and Croats than for Slovenians. I think that both minorities in Slovenia are very well cared for. However, our minorities are not well cared for in neighbouring countries, Hungary and Italy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u65	Thank you very much. I'll take the word of Dr. Slavinc.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u66	Thank you very much for the word, which, given the short remaining time, will run faster. I hope, at least, that I will be able to say the most important thing, and it is clear from the outset that I am in favour of both amendments. But I'll stop by the other one, of course. I am aware that the aim of General Maistre was undisputed to help with the accession, but it is very important to celebrate and name the way people feel. And in Prekmurje we have no feelings for Maistra, but we have a feeling of our identity, to the previously mentioned miracle that we can remain members of Slovenia and of course we are very proud of it. And this is the basis why we want to continue to remain the head of Slovenian chicken and then we are, as we say, proud.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mr. Gulic, you have three seconds left if you want to take advantage.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u68	I thank the president. Look, anyway, we'll make up our minds. I'm not going to historically justify the purpose of this, but it seems to me [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u69	Soon the technique will act. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u70	to think about how we're going to spend these holidays [[...]] [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u71	That's how it was technically done. I'd like to take the floor with you, Mr. Bevek.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u72	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The common denominator of the novel of the law and both amendments, which I will also support, is the issue of Slovenian borders and the fight for them. Or in the military or in the diplomatic field. In the past, however, they have also done a great deal in Slovenian science, in the profession, both historians, lawyers, geography, intellectuals of all kinds. I would therefore like to draw attention to one historical fact that in 1941/42 the Commission, which studied the issue of the future borders of the Republic of Slovenia, acted within the Liberation Front. The main leader of this commission was a distinguished Slovenian historian, whose 100th anniversary will be celebrated next month, October 24, Dr. Franz Cviter, an academic, also a university rector and already a pre-war history professor. In addition to this problem, Edvard Kocbek, Prežihov Voranc, Prof. Anton Melik, Dr. Svetozar Ilešič, Dr. Bogo Grafenauer and, until their split for the liberation front, also Dr. Črtomir Nadeza. As early as 1942, Prežihov Voranc wrote a book or publication on Slovenian borders, which appeared on the positions of the United Slovenia. Then most of these experts were arrested and the commission began working again at the end of 1943. At the beginning of 1944, even the scientific institute was established and one of the main tasks of this scientific institute, where the then prominent intellectuals of various professions worked, was to study borders after the end of the war. They even prepared two symposiums or meetings on this subject, held on March 1944 and September 9, 1944. And here I want to quote something. Both dedications based on this principle, are said to be a reality of a united Slovenia. On September 9, 1944, Edward Kardelj wrote at headquarters. a corps to occupy Trieste, Gorica and as many Furlania as possible in front of the Anglo-American army. This, of course, caused a sharp response by the Italian Communist Party's leadership and reaction to the Italians. This seemed important to me because I would like to celebrate the 100th anniversary of the birth of Dr. Fran Cvitra in some way, and it would be right to read in the book Liberation of Slovenia his discussion of the preparation of the scientific institute to resolve border issues after the war. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u73	Thank you very much. I have Mrs Pecanov on the list, but since she's not here, I assume she's cancelling the debate. It's Mr. Sok's turn.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u74	Thank you very much. If I may continue here, where my spokeswoman, Comrade Bevk, ended when he quoted a passage from the book and what Kardelj was trying to do. I was also very interested in reading the book by Alexander Bajt, Berman's process - and I brought it with me - where Bajt writes about Trieste somewhat differently, where he actually blames Tito and Cardel for losing Trieste. It's not a matter of this law right now. However, in this Article, all these holidays, the connection of the Primorska, then the Northern Borders and the connection of the Prekmurje are covered, so it is possible to talk about all of this in the context of this. It is true that we have a history such as some present it here today, and yet another one, which is still more or less silent and also points to some other perspectives. And I will recommend to my colleague Bevk if you have time to read too, this is on page 1253, that is his views, the byte's views on what happened to Trieste and who actually sacrificed Trieste and on behalf of what interests. I also say this because after the war many of us were taught about the liberation of Primorska about these events, but it is true that almost never was talked about Prekmurje as a rule. Therefore, in the New Slovenia-Christian People's Party, it is very good for us to remember, on this occasion, that when we celebrate the holiday of the accession of Primorska, or at least from this point of view, we evaluate what General Maister did, and also what my colleague Horvat said happened shortly after the miracle - that Pomurje joined the matrix. And if we did not adopt such a law today that would mark this moment in our historical consciousness, then we would adopt a flawed law. I also understand this desire and purpose in this context, and I do not think that this, as may have been expressed in the speech of our fellow Member, Marie Possonec, will mean any division. This is not what anyone wants, nor is it the purpose, and we firmly believe that this will not mean in practice. Neither about the Hungarian minority in our country, nor about the Italian minority in our country, because if these events are properly evaluated, then they can be celebrated together, as in Hungary, as in Slovenia or Italy. In fact, by dividing and drawing borders, we have reached a consensus, and this fact allows nations in these areas to live in a coexistence. So this holiday of joining Prekmurje, August 17th, we support and will vote in favour of such a proposal. However, as regards the amendment, in order to move from December 26th to December 23rd when plebiscite took place, I must say that we will not support this amendment. In fact, it was true that plebiscite happened on December 23rd, but the announcement was then due to an interim holiday on December 26th. There could be 23 or 26 from some arguments, so there are arguments for one or the other date, either the day of the vote or the day of the vote. But from the technical-organisation level, we're sure it's better that this is December 26th, so this is the second day after Christmas. Perhaps in the context of the meaning itself, I should mention the fact that December 26th is the year of St. Stephen. St. Stephen was in Christianity and Christianity undoubtedly gave a valuable orientation to Europe as a whole and thus to the Slovenian people. St. Stephen was the first martyr in the history of Christianity, and if he said that, somewhat with emotion, like some others, we compare this path of the Slovenians to the fact that we got the independent state, it is also somehow possible, I would say at least at the symbolic level, to show on, if I say in the narration or even without the narration, the martyrdom of the Slovenes to get the Slovenian state. So, many of our predecessors have suffered a lot because of this, either far before or not so far back, and have done a lot to finally get to the point that today the Slovenes live in a separate state and it seems to us that it is only right that this is the 26th and that it is also symbolic in some way, I would say, what happened to the first martyr in Christianity is this with St. Stephen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mr. Battelli has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u76	Thank you very much. The day of independence, the day of statehood, the day of rebellion against the invader, these were mainly fascist Italy and Nazi Germany, Prešeren Day, Slovenian cultural holiday. These already existing laws can fully capture the feelings of those who advocate the adoption of this law, while at the same time they do not disturb the conscience and conscience of others. The ethical tension on which the independent Democratic Republic of Slovenia was founded is weakening by this law in my opinion. Slovenia renounces in some way at least part of the concept of the laity of the modern state. We cannot deceive ourselves, and we all know what prompted the adoption of this law. And I would never have thought that the planned and vengeful expulsion of practically the entire population of the coast, i.e. Italians and Slovenians, could ever be the subject of celebration and the law of course I would not support.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u77	Thank you very much. It's Mrs. Possonec's turn.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u78	Thank you very much. With regard to the amendments, I say that I will support the amendment that Mr Bevk spoke of. As for the second one, I have answers, say Mr. Jelinčič. Twelve years earlier it was published in Lendava, Lendava Castle, Hungary's book, as in today's region of Slovenia. Yes, what they did then, and that was once in the centuries that they did then. If it were not for Hungary, I mean, a state of its own,
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u79	Mrs. Possonec, please don't polymise with colleagues who don't have any more time to answer this, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u80	I didn't get a chance before, a coexistence of an interlinking character. [[...]] Yes, certainly a neighbor should have this co-existence, and we are residents of Slovenia, an internal political factor, and I think that yes, we could have a connection with us. Mr Horvath spoke of the Hungarian holiday which we celebrate, this is the holiday of St Stephen, which Mr Sok spoke about. This martyr, however, spoke of the strength of a nation with more nationality. So he had absolutely nothing against the Slovenians, so you can't compare these two celebrations. And that, the Prekmur Slovenians must feel equal. I deeply agree with this, and I also work to make them feel equal. They would feel equal if they had the same working conditions, living conditions as they do in other parts of Slovenia. As far as August 17th. There were a lot of words about that today, too many words, so it makes me think it touched things like that, I mean, an explanation. I had the content of my speech. Moreover, that the Premur Members have been united, successful and I want them to be so united, so successful when talking about the highway when it comes to business matters. I think this will be more helpful to Prekmurje.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u81	Thank you very much. And Mrs. Pecan.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u82	Thank you very much. I apologize to my colleagues and colleagues and, of course, to you, Mr Vice-President, for the previous delay, but it will happen. I would like to say that I am also in favour of such an amendment, which is moving the celebration of the Day of Independence and Unity on 23 December. It always seemed strange to me that the then Assembly had set December 26th as the day when we celebrated the outcome of the decisions, a very uniform decision of the Slovenian people for independence and independence on the day the result was announced. The action was taken on December 23rd, and therefore it seems to me that this date is significantly more appropriate. Of course, it is up to fellow Members and fellow Members to decide whether this movement will be confirmed by the date of the day. I think that there are people in Slovenia, and I have talked about this a lot, it's kind of a widespread view that we should actually celebrate people's decisions, not the decision of the Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia at the time. Secondly, I would like to say that I think that the New Slovenia Group proposed deleting the text at the end of this new or renewed article, because it is somehow understandable that there would be some duplication of the two holidays, Rudolph Maister and 17 August. There's something else I'd like to say. August 17th is not an amendment, which may not be the most appropriate place to talk about it, but I would like to say that when I read the written explanation for this amendment, it seemed a little strange to me that the applicants who today very fully explained their decision and their proposal were so interesting to listen to [[End warning sign]] why they actually proposed the 17th of August as a holiday, that we should also write this in an explanatory memorandum to the amendment, the then amendment. Well, lastly, I would say the following that I was very pleased that the holiday of Primorska was celebrated on September 16th. Still, I found it strange that the government insisted on September 15th as a day of the seaside holiday. [[character set-end re-character]] , because September 16th is the day of 1943 [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u83	I'm warning you, the microphone will go off.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u84	I'll be right there. I've got 15 seconds, right? When the Supreme Triumph of the Liberation Front reached its conclusion that Primorska [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Before I call to the floor, Madam Secretary of State, I ask, would anyone else like to discuss, of course, from those who still have time? Yes, Mr. Battelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u86	Thank you. With regard to this 23rd and 26th December. There were also some, as I would say, legal reasons, because on December 23rd we went to the referendum, but then it was formally necessary to determine the outcome. And it was known about the decision of almost the entire, 95% of the population, that the decision was known only later, after these voting operations had ended. So it's not that I don't know how very controversial, in my opinion. However, I find it a little unserious, little reminds me of those attempts even to amend the preamble to the constitution. And this, as I would say, some kind of revisionism is always going on with good intentions to be more precise, but in fact it is here, as I would say, for slow but yet shaking the foundations of the creation of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u87	Thank you very much. There's no more time, Mr. Bevk. Anyone else, the one with the time? Then I would. No, this is not the case with amendments, only in a further debate, but this is the practice and agreement. I'd like to invite Mr. Secretary of State to comment.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u88	The government supports the amendment of New Slovenia to Article 1 and we do not support the amendment of the Social Democrats to Article 1, paragraph 1, of the Government, because we believe that December 26 will remain a holiday because this day has been published a particularly famous act declaring plebiscite.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u89	Thank you very much. This concludes the debate. The amendment will be decided in the framework of today's vote, half an hour after the end of the 22nd item of the agenda or no later than 20.45 hours. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 18. PERIOD OF THE DAY - REVELATION OF THE PROPOSAL OF AMENDMENTS TO THE BLOOD LAW - SHORT PROCEDURE. We have 48 minutes at our disposal. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly, and since there is no representative, it is coming. Good afternoon, Secretary of State. I'd like to invite you to your word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u90	Well welcomed, Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament. On the basis of the adopted law on Bludk's recognitions of 1994, a regulation on the functioning of the Bludkov Awards Committee was adopted. Based on the experience of the work of this committee so far, we have come to the conclusion that it is necessary to amend a few laws and the rules on the granting of such recognitions. The main finding and amendment relates to the date of the award of the award, namely, the award should be granted on the day of Bludkov's birth, which is February 11th, and not as before, November 26th, on the day of his death. This would ensure that the call for proposals for the award of Bludk's awards for the current year could last for a year and this is a major change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u91	Thank you very much. The draft law was also considered by the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport as the working body of the mother, and of course I invite Mr Bevek, Vice-President of the Committee, to present the report.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. At its 7th regular session on 7 September 2005, the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport considered a proposal for a law amending the law on Bludkov's recognitions submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly for consideration and after a reduced procedure by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. On the Committee itself, the applicant did not further explain the law and the representative of the legislative legal service said that the comments from their written opinion had been fully taken into account. Therefore, without discussion, the Committee adopted amendments for the new 2.a. and 2.b. a Article by which, in accordance with the opinion of the Legal Service, more precisely specifies the course of the award procedures already initiated. The invitation to tender has already been published until 31.12.2005 and the procedure will be completed in accordance with the rules in force. The prizes will therefore be awarded under the new rule on the anniversary of the birth of engineer Stanko Bludk, which is on 11 February, on the day of his birth, and this is the first time on 11 February 2006. And the committee, of course, supported the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u93	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the delegations and Mr Žnidaršič has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u94	Dear Prime Minister, distinguished representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. The parliamentary group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will support changes in the law because they make sense. Bludkov's confessions will be awarded after the adoption of these amendments to the law at the anniversary of Bludkov's birth, not death, which is better and internationally comparable. The law implements a special committee which must comply with the condition for granting such recognitions, and it is therefore appropriate that the procedure and procedures for the functioning of the Committee should be specified in more detail by the Minister. The fact that the law will have no financial consequences is the last reason for our group to support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u95	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Branko Marinič to present the position of the SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u96	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! There's not many of us, though. The SDS Group will support the proposal for a law amending the law on Bludk's recognitions, which has been tabled following a reduced procedure. These are less difficult changes, which only concern the change in the date of the award of the award. Nor does the amendment of the law constitute any additional burden on the state budget or any other financial consequences. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we believe that it is right that Slovenian athletes have time throughout the calendar year to prove themselves at home and around the world. As the date of the award of the awards is transferred from 26 November to 11 February, all athletes, regardless of the annual time in which they are active, will have equal opportunities to run for recognition, which will bring greater prominence to the individual, individual or entire sport collective in the country and, in particular, recognition of their efforts and denials. And if they keep today's fortunes of fortune tellers, today will be a difficult day but a successful day, and that is why there is more reason to confirm in the SDS the proposal of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mr Bevk has the floor, this time on behalf of the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u98	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! Bloudkov's confessions were introduced in 1965 as the highest republic or state recognition for achievements in the field of sport. In 1994, the law on Bludkov's confessions was passed, whose Rules on the functioning of the Bludkov Recognition Committee stipulated that the award was to be given on the day of his death. The solemn award of the awards was, therefore, always on the day of the death of engineer Stank Bludk, who was born on 11 February 1890 in Idrija and died in Ljubljana on 26 November 1959. With the proposed amendment, the award shall be carried out on the anniversary of his birth. This change will allow the call for recognition to be extended throughout the year, not as it is now that it has actually reached out in two calendar years. On February 11, 1890, engineer Stanko Bludek was born in Idrija. His father, Jaroslav, was a mining engineer from Telč, Moravia, who worked at the Idria mercury mine and Minka Lapayne, from Idria. Stanko Bludek was one of Slovenia's largest inventors, aircraft and ski jumping designers, sports organizer and all the side athletes. Bludek was always an athlete, active in various disciplines. He was a gymnast, a footballer, a skier, could be an athlete, an art skater and a disc thrower. In 1921 he was the first Slovenian champion, and as an art skater he was a multiple national champion, in 1926, 1927 and 1929. Above all, his name is related to the design and construction of ski jumping boats, especially in Planica. At the jumpers he designed, for many years they reached, preserved, and exceeded world records until they were born with a new discipline, flying on skis. He built playgrounds in Ljubljana and elsewhere, including the Ilirija Sports Bath, in which he invested even his financial resources. It is thus impossible to describe briefly his contribution to the Slovenian scientific, inventive and sporting treasure. However, it is quite appropriate that we in Slovenia have been awarding Bloudkov awards every year as the highest recognition for the achievements in the field of sport. However, since engineer Stanko Bludek was born in Idrija, and the amendment of the law is directly linked to the award of Bludkov's awards at the anniversary of his birth, I am taking the initiative to organise the ceremony every other year in his birthplace, Idrija. The parliamentary group of Social Democrats will support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u99	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Marjetko Uhan to present the position of New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u100	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, Members and Members of Parliament! In Novi Slovenija we will support the proposed amendments to the law on Bludkov's confessions. It is a change in the date of the award of Bludkov's awards. Now the recognition of the highest sporting achievements was awarded on the day of Bludkov's death, on 26 November and on the new day of his birth on 11 February. With the amendment adopted, applications for recognition will be collected throughout the year for the last calendar year. We will also support the amendment that justifies this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u101	Thank you very much. And last, Mr Michael Prevc, on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u102	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Dear government officials, distinguished colleague and colleague! We will also support this law in the Slovenian People's Party, for a simple reason, because the award of awards for the highest sporting achievements is a solemn moment, and it is only right that this happens on the date of Stank Bludk's birth, this is February 11th. This proposal makes sense to us because of what has already been mentioned before me, since this allows the applicants to monitor sports achievements throughout the year for these recognitions, since the invitation to tender is extended to 31.12. That's what they say. Sports achievements are measured all year round. Finally, in the Slovenian People's Party, we will support the initiative of fellow Bevko to grant these awards in his birthplace every other year. I think it is right that, on such occasions, we also stress the location, the birthplace, where such people come from. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u103	Thank you very much. We have completed the presentation of all the views of the Group. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles, so I conclude the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. The vote on the law will take place today, in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 22nd item of the agenda, or at the latest at 20.45. I thank the representatives of the Government for their cooperation and all of it. I'm breaking this agenda. I'm moving on with 20. PERIOD OF THE DAY - WITH DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE LAW ON PUBLIC TRAFFIC - SHORT PROCEDURE. Total time for discussion 45 minutes. During this time, we are already joined by representatives of the government, or the Transport Ministry, Minister Bozič, and by the Secretary of State, Mr Ficko. And I would have asked the representative, probably the minister, for an explanation, of course, for a pay phone.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u104	First of all, say good-bye to everyone. Dear Members and Members! Allow me to present to you the main reasons and the related main content of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on public roads which has been submitted to you for consideration. The most important reason is certainly the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. This legislator is required to remove, by 11 November 2005 at the latest, the non-compliance of Article 11 of the Law on Public Roads, which refers to fees and reimbursements for the use of public roads with Article 120(2) of the Constitution. By this decision, the Constitutional Court decided that 30 days after the expiry of the said period, Article 2 of the Toll Regulation should also be repealed for certain roads. The reason for the annulment was two. First, that the Law on Public Roads does not expressly authorise governments to issue a sub-law establishing toll roads and others, that the law does not provide a substantive framework for such sub-legislative regulation. The finding of non-compliance in the draft law will be addressed by new provisions laying down the substantive framework for the sub-legislative regulation of tolls and the establishment of toll roads, which means that the law will lay down criteria for the identification of toll roads and road installations, criteria and criteria for determining the amount of toll and the obligation to pay the toll. In this part of the law, the basic provisions of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the charging of heavy goods vehicles for the use of certain infrastructures, namely those relating to to to tolls, are brought into the Slovenian legal order. The next reason is the transposition of the basic requirements of two other Directives of the European Parliament and of the Council into the Slovenian legal order. The directive on the interoperability of electronic toll systems in the community, which must be transposed into the Slovenian legal order by 20 November 2005, sets out in the bill the obligation of road and building operators to introduce electronic tolling with certain technical characteristics to be determined by the Commission of the European Community and is prescribed by the Government for us. The basic requirements of the Directive on minimum safety requirements for tunnels in the trans-European road network, which must be transposed into the Slovenian legal order by 30 April 2006, shall be laid down in a new chapter by law. These are requirements that apply to tunnels more than 500 meters long, such as ours, which are over 40 miles [40 km]. The provisions of the new Chapter define the basic safety requirements for tunnels and these detailed rules are laid down by the Government under the law. It's like a third. In order to resolve the problem of the acquisition of land used for public roads, the proposed law regulates the procedure for determining the border of a public road and establishes a specific, simpler procedure for the acquisition of property of the State or the local community on land not owned by the State or the municipality and takes the existing road. The amendment is related to the repeal of Article 85 of the Law on Public Roads, for which the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia found that it is inconsistent with the Constitution because of interference with property rights. In view of the acquisition of the land necessary for the modernisation of state roads, the proposed law also establishes a specific procedure for determining the public benefit of the decommissioning of those land on which reconstructions of state roads are carried out as maintenance works for public benefit. Therefore, the proposed amendments and additions remain in line with the laws of other areas adopted following the implementation of the Law on Public Roads. Thus, the chapter on the prohibition of a dangerous state road and traffic is in compliance with the Road Safety Act. The provisions on offences are removed by the Offences Act, the definition of maintenance works for public benefit and the issuance of permits and consents for interventions to the State Road Area is compliance with the Construction Act. Finally, I would like to say that, in order to improve the text of this law, the Government has drawn up two harmonisation amendments, namely Article 8 and Article 20, which are now clearer. Dear Members and Members. At the conclusion of the presentation of the bill, I would like to draw your attention once again to the deadline set out in the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, which is 11 November 2005, which will no longer provide the legal basis for the collection of tolls on Slovenian motorways, while the toll is an important source of financing for development in the financial system of the national highway construction programme in the Republic of Slovenia. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] and maintenance of the motorway coastline, this is the main source for the recovery of leased investment loans for the construction of motorways. [[...]] Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u105	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The draft law was treated by the Transport Committee as a working mother, and I therefore invite Mr Kangler to present the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u106	Thank you for your word. At its 7th regular session, on 8.9.2005, the Transport Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia considered a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Roads, which was sent by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to deal with the proposal to be dealt with in short-term proceedings, since it is a matter of less difficult amendments and additions to the law and compliance with the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. The reasons and the related main content of the amendments and the addition of the law on public roads were presented to me by the Minister for Transport, Mr Janez Bozič. The main reasons, as he himself stated, are the constitutional decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia of 11.11.2004 establishing road tolls and the substantive framework for the sub-legislative regulation of the toll, which requires the national assembly to carry out the findings of non-compliance with Article 11 of the Public Roads Act within one year, no later than 11.11.2005. The second reason is the transposition of certain requirements adopted by Directives of the European Parliament and of the Council into the Slovenian legal order, from road users of charges for the use of certain infrastructure for heavy goods vehicles, on the interoperability of electronic toll systems in the community and on minimum safety requirements for tunnels, which is very important given that they are increasing on Slovenian roads from day to day. The third reason is the regulation of some of the most urgent compliances with the laws adopted following the implementation of the Law on Public Roads. The Transport Committee then, in accordance with Articles 126 and 128, 130 and 132 and 131 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, came to the debate and vote on the individual articles of the bill and on the amendments tabled and on the amendments of the committee tabled in the report of the Committee itself. In accordance with the amendments adopted, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Roads, which forms an integral part of this report, is prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u107	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Bojan Ruglj to present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party and, of course, we begin by presenting the views of the groups of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u108	Thank you, President, for your kind greeting to those who are in here and also to those who are not. The basic reason for initiating the procedure for amending and supplementing the Law on Public Roads is the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia of 11.11.2004 by which the Court found that Article 11 of the Law on Public Roads is inconsistent with the Constitution and that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia must abolish this non-compliance within one year. More importantly, by this Decision, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia decided that Article 2 of the Toll Regulation should be repealed for the use of certain roads. This repeal shall enter into force 30 days after the previous one-year period. The basic reason for the repeal is that the existing public road law does not have a substantive framework whereby the government could prescribe which roads are where the toll is charged. Therefore, a new sentence setting out the principle of the legality of administration is also inconsistent with the second paragraph of Article 120. Since the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, with a delay of 11.12.2005, repealed in a certain part a government regulation governing tolls after that date without amending the law and the new government regulations on tolls and toll roads and road installations, it will no longer be possible to charge the use of these roads. On 29.4.2004, two directives were adopted and subsequently published, which also need to be transposed into Slovenia's legal order and a new law on public roads. This is a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the interoperability of electronic toll systems in the Community and the Directive on minimum safety requirements for tunnels in the trans-European road network. The deadline for transposition of the first Directive into the Slovenian legal order is 20.11.2005, and the second is 30.6.2006. So the goals are clear. Harmonise the Law on Public Roads with the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia by establishing a substantive framework for the sub-legislative regulation of the toll and the establishment of toll stations. The transposition of European Community directives into the Slovenian legal order, to regulate some of the most urgent compliances with laws adopted under the existing law on public roads, such as the Construction of Buildings Act, the Offences Act, the Real Estate Registration Act, the State Borders and Spatial Units Act. To arrange for a new solution to the simpler procedure for obtaining the property rights of the State, or of the local community, on land intended for public roads, in accordance with a decision of the Constitutional Court. The proposed law will have no direct impact on the budget and on the negative financial implications for other public financial resources, as long as it is adopted. Otherwise, there may even be negative consequences. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Roads is comparable in Europe and therefore the SDS Group fully supports it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Since we are also in the leadership today, let me exceptionally leave this place and present the position of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u110	Dear Mr. Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! Let me begin by saying that in the Liberal Democracy Group we do not oppose the adoption of the law, but we would like to remind the Government once again that such complicated changes and additions should not be made in the short term, but in a regular manner. Of course, we didn't want to trouble the president's college for updating or speeding. We would like in particular to highlight the provisions of the new Article 11th, which do not constitute a substantive substantive change in the current toll system, and align the law with the decision of the Constitutional Court by establishing a substantive framework for the sub-legislative regulation of tolls and the determination of tolls. Without the application of these provisions, the collection of tolls on the Slovenian motorway network will be illegal from 11 December onwards. Since the article also allows to pay tolls for the use of mountain crossings, we take advantage of this opportunity to take the initiative of the Ministry of Transport to explore the possibility of introducing toll payments for the use of our only mountain crossing Vrsič, which in the summer tourist season is choked in a car sheet. The journey would be intended not only for the reimbursement of maintenance and renewal costs but also for environmental costs, which are not referred to in the third paragraph of Article 11a. In particular, we welcome a completely new provision allowing the Minister to prohibit traffic to heavy trucks on certain state roads in settlements or populated areas where there is parallel road links. Even before accession, the European Union in 1994 gave up the possibility of restricting transit road freight, which is rapidly increasing on our roads, especially after the abolition of customs formalities on 1 May 2004. As a result of such a trend, we will be facing serious environmental and spatial problems very soon in our country. Although environmental costs are not sufficiently included in the toll for heavy trucks, a large number of such drivers avoid paying tolls on motorways using parallel state roads. Heavy trucks are speeding up to destroy already bad state roads, as a major struggle is engulfing roads like passenger cars and exacerbating traffic safety. Since transit road freight cannot be reduced for a short period of time, transport policy operators must immediately redirect it back to motorways, despite the very likely protests by domestic road transport associations. The shift of heavy goods to motorways is also necessary because of the forecast that the European Commission will propose the abolition of regulations restricting or prohibiting the use of trucks at the end of the week. While this provision of the law provides for the prohibition and restriction of the traffic of heavy goods but only through or beyond settlements. From this point of view, we consider the provision to be too ambitious and inconsistent, since such a ban should allow for all state roads parallel to motorways. We are already addressing this proposal in the field of transport policy, which I am about to meet with in this assembly. On this occasion, let us just say that the motion for a resolution is unfortunately technically weak and loose, fast because the Ministry is avoiding responsibility and commitment. So far, he has been involved in considerable criticism by the professional public, but for another time. In our House of Representatives, we also point to a new chapter that regulates minimum safety requirements for tunnels and brings to our legal order a directive on minimum safety requirements for tunnels on the entire European road network. On this occasion, we reiterate the fact that our longest two-pass tunnel, Karavanka, does not have a modern special fire rescue vehicle in the tunnels, for example, Dars provided such a vehicle for intervention in the event of accidents in the unbuilt tunnels of Tabor-Slatina and Barnica in Podnanos, so we expect that the implementation of this law will also force the Ministry of Transport and the manager of the tunnel Karavanka to purchase a new special fire escape vehicle in the tunnels also for this tunnel. In the LDS, as it is said, despite the concern and the fact that the proposal did not fully take into account the opinion of the legislative and legal service, we will support the bill. Here again, we point out that something will soon have to be prepared and a new law on public roads passed, since the existing text will no longer be able to pass on similar extensive interventions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u111	And I invite Mrs Bredo Pecan to present the position of the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u112	Good afternoon. The proposed law is supported by the Group of Social Democrats. I would not repeat the reasons we have just heard, but I would have added mainly from the point of view of local communities, of course also the countries, because this law simplifies the acquisition of a road body, or land under a road body, owned by a country or a congregation. The fact is that a long time ago, both the state and the congregations were given a commitment, and the country probably has no such problems, and the congregation is certainly very large because we have very, even municipalities with relatively few local roads, many kilometres of roads running through foreign lands, in private land. And the process of acquiring these land in ownership, which is, after all, normal, given that the owner must also take care of the road, and thus the possibility of making public declaration on the road is also an opportunity to make it easier for us to acquire these land. Otherwise, as it is said, the parliamentary group supports this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u113	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Jožef Horvat to present the position of New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u114	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister with fellow Members, distinguished fellow Members and fellow Members! In the opening, let me say that the New Slovenia Group will support the proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the Law on Public Roads. We have also supported the amendments of the Committee of the National Transport Assembly as a parent working body. The reasons for supporting the law are as follows. First reason. The Public Roads Act, which entered into force on 7 June 1997, regulated public roads in the Republic of Slovenia, divided them into state roads, namely those within the jurisdiction of the state authorities and municipal roads under the jurisdiction of the municipalities. On 11 November last year, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia found that Article 11 of the Law on Public Roads was inconsistent with the Constitution and that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia had to remove this non-compliance by 11 November this year. More importantly, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, with a delay of 11.12.2005, repealed a government regulation governing tolls in a certain part. After 11 December 2005, without any changes to the law and the new government regulations on tolls and toll roads and road facilities, the use of these roads will no longer be charged. This would be a fatal threat to the implementation of the national highway construction programme in the Republic of Slovenia, as in the financial system of the national highway construction programme in the Republic of Slovenia, the funds obtained by the toll are an important source of financing for the development, renewal and maintenance of the highway network and the main source of the already hired investment credits for the construction of motorways. Second reason. A detailed transposition of Directive 1999/62 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the charging of toll charges for heavy goods vehicles for the use of certain infrastructures in this Act should also be provided by regulating the toll. Third reason to support this law. It is also necessary to transpose Directive 2004/52 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the interoperability of electronic toll systems in the Community and Directive 2004/54 of the European Parliament and of the Council on minimum safety requirements for tunnels in the trans-European road network. The deadline for transposition of the first Directive into Slovenia is already 20 November 2005 and the second is 30.6.2006. The proposed law therefore includes the basic requirements of both directives, which need to be transposed into the Slovenian legal order. The fourth reason. The bill regulates some of the most urgent compliances with laws adopted under the Law on Public Roads, such as the Construction of Buildings Act, the Law on Offences and the Law on the Registration of Real Estates of State Borders and Spatial Units. And finally the fifth reason to support this law. The law introduces a new solution to a simpler procedure for obtaining property rights of the State or the local community on land used for public road, which is in line with the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, which repealed Article 85 of the Law on Public Roads in 2002. As has already been said, the New Slovenia Group will support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Roads. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u115	Thank you, Mr. Horvath. Mr Franz Kangler will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u116	Thank you for your word. Dear Members and Members, representatives of the government, Minister! The Slovenian People's Party's Group will support amendments to the Law on Public Roads following a reduced procedure, which we also supported on the home labour body. Finally, we are aware that the Constitutional Court's decision requires that certain provisions of the Public Road Act be regulated in accordance with this Decision by 11.11.2005. And here are some of the reasons why there is a need to respect the rule of law, including the reasons for the law to be followed by a reduced procedure. The second reason for amending the Law on Public Roads is certainly the transfer of certain requirements that have been adopted. Above all, we are referring to directives of the European Parliament and of the Council in the Slovenian legal order. After all, Slovenia in the European Union must in some way respect order in the European Union, respect the directives adopted in the European Parliament and in the Council and must also be brought into line with the acquis in the Republic of Slovenia. This law, as we have found before the interlocutors, regulates tolls, interoperability of toll systems. It is very important that we approach systematic solutions to the problems of toll systems. The law also regulates the establishment of public roads where there are even borders along public roads, in some ways the law also solves the reconstruction of state roads on which state roads are to be reconstructed, the extent to which public roads are used, the minimum safety requirements necessary for the use of state roads. The law also defines certain tasks of the Ministry, in particular defining some of the management requirements of tunnel managers, and we have also obtained by law a security officer, a restriction on the use of state roads, how one can and when to use a state road. In particular, it is also important to inspect tunnels for the safety and use of state roads and tunnels. Transitional provisions governing certain segments and chapters with new provisions are also important. Once again, the parliamentary group will fully support the law as proposed.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u117	Thank you, Mr. Kangler. Mr Willi Rezman will present the position of the DeSUS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Support for the proposed law is justified, as we believe in the DeSUS Group of Members. We draw the justification from some of the facts that have been said so far and should reiterate that this non-compliance which has been established by the Constitutional Court's decision has to be remedied. Let me say that the deadline is also right outside the door and let me say that, of course, after that date, tolling would be illegal and that this would endanger the programme or implementation of the programme, the national programme, to build roads. Without determining which roads could be tolled, they would therefore be again in distempered, and they would probably be embarrassed if the two Directives, which have already been mentioned, were not also implemented in our legislation. So these are the reasons, for some others perhaps, that provide our support. In the meantime, I find that it is not best that we are constantly in time. Perhaps it would be a good time to make more package arrangements at the time when we decided twice on loans for the construction of such an infrastructure, but now we have no special choice in this regard. We also support some of the other definitions proposed in the law, in particular those relating to the reduction of public road procedures, either in writing to the Land Book, either for leasing or for a different way, i.e. for the way roads are redesigned without construction permits, where this is of course for public benefit. However, we wonder what public road syntagma means. The reason for this question is very simple. In explanation of the report, we could read that the law separates public roads from those relating to state public roads and to those concerning municipal public roads. If so, then the treatment of these two roads is different. That's what we're saying. It's not the best. Surely the public road syntagma itself means all public roads. This also allows for Article 19 of the preliminary and final provisions, where the limitation of property rights applies again to all public roads and makes it possible on all public roads. Even in the county hall. We know that on municipal roads we also have many and big and difficult problems. In addressing these problems, however, we will not now receive the same treatment as the public roads will receive if this interpretation is true. If this explanation is true, because Article 28 limits this right, it literally states, to the reconstruction of state roads. We feel that an additional explanation should be given today or that the treatment for municipal and state roads should be arranged in such a way that it is the same for all public roads. Thus all public roads could also be reconstructed, renovated, dosed, etc. in accordance with this Act with the same treatment.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u119	Thank you, Mr. Rezman. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles, so I conclude the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. We will vote on the law in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the half-hour vote after the end of the 22nd item of the agenda or at the latest at 20.45 hours. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 21. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Aid for Resolution and Prestructuring of Economic Companies in Difficulties. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Economy to be the working body of the mother. I ask the Vice-President of the Committee, Mr William Rezman, to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u120	Again, thank you for your word. During the period of validity of this Act, various weaknesses have been identified, in particular weaknesses related to the content of the restructuring programme, weaknesses related to the assessment of the restructuring programme, as well as to the assessment of the impact of the implementation of this Act. In the meantime, the European Union guidelines have also entered into force with effect from 2004 to 2005. Therefore, the Government has decided to propose, following a reduced procedure, an amendment to this law. The College decided that the mother's working body was an economic committee. The Committee considered the matter taking into account a number of opinions, in particular the legislative and legal service, the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and also the Council of State. At the same time, he also addressed three amendments of the Social Democrats, who were mostly rejected and accepted some of their amendments, following the legislative and legal service's suggestion. The proposal for a cooperative association to treat agricultural cooperatives as well as other companies has not been addressed by the Committee. The debate that developed took place in particular on the basis of warnings from the legislative and legal services, as well as further clarifications by the proposers and those who proposed amendments. In this regard, a number of different opinions were expressed on individual issues and, above all, on issues already raised by the Legal and Legislative Service, it assessed that the responses of the proposer were not appropriate or quite clear. The following questions were raised: Why is further proposed as beneficiaries of aid to those who have matured for insolvency proceedings? This was asked by both the legislative and legal service and the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. However, the response of the applicants was simply to follow the guidelines that are binding on us. The second question was: Who is the one who approves the restructuring programme? And once again, the proposaler's response, which speaks of the fact that the supervisory board of large companies is the one who decides to do so later on by the European Commission and then, as the Government of the Republic of Slovenia decides, is the final decision. Should those who are just before the liquidation be eligible for aid? That was the next question. The motioner insisted yes. The amendment proposed by the Committee, however, deleted the eligibility of those who were before the liquidation. So that's not in the proposal anymore. On the committee, we have proposed that the government consider this matter until today or until the start of the hearing in the National Assembly, but we have not yet received any changes. There was some discussion about the need for a statement as to whether aid-seekers have ever received this aid or not. Here too, the Committee did not fully agree and had to make a majority decision. It remained a teaching that these statements should be written, although some felt that they were totally unnecessary. The question raised was: Why are the credit conditions tightened? The applicant’s reply was that this was also in line with the European Union’s guidelines. The three amendments concerning the right of dismissal in companies which are in a forced settlement with regard to the possibility of deferral of payments of contributions and taxes and the obligation to make the declaration proposed by the Social Democrats have not been voted on. These were some of the main concerns. However, the idea that remains to the end is whether or not it has been adequately answered to the question of the legal and legislative service in order to remain a problem of retroactivity in the functioning of this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u121	Thank you, Mr. Rezman. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Matjaž Han will present the position of the Socialist Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u122	Thank you so much for your words, Mr President! Dear representatives of the Ministry, the National Assembly! The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on aid for the rescue and restructuring of companies in difficulty that we are dealing with today is intended to simplify the procedures for granting State aid, in particular to small and medium-sized enterprises in difficulty. I mean, I'm supposed to. This is what the applicant wrote in his introduction and the objectives of the draft law. Unfortunately, there is no simplification in the text of the articles itself. On the contrary, the Social Democrats argue that the adoption of this law will virtually prevent the granting of state aid to firms in difficulty. The government as a proponent basically claims two, which is supposed to bring simplification. First time. The procedures for government cross-cutting coordination and procedures for the implementation of State aid allocations will be simplified. Social Democrats welcome that intention. At the same time, however, we argue that this is not the content of the law, but rather the content of its implementing rules. And a second time. For small and medium-sized enterprises, the restructuring and change programmes will be confirmed by the government and only informed the European Commission. True, but this has been true for Slovenia since 1 May 2004. Indeed, as full members of the European Union, we must respect, inter alia, Article 88 of the Treaty establishing the European Community, Council Regulation No 659 of 1999 and Commission Order No 794 of 2004 governing the procedures for granting State aid. However, the limited order of 1999 allows so-called group exceptions to the basic rule that State aid is in principle prohibited. These group exceptions include all small and medium-sized enterprises in the Member States of the European Union. In this sense, we simply write into the law what is already in force. Social Democrats claim that the law has been poorly prepared from the very beginning. In addition to the big words in the introduction on how state aid will be given after a new faster allocation, and how the country will focus on economically less developed and socially more sensitive areas, there is nothing left in the text of the articles. On the contrary. The draft law already addressed by the Home Economics Committee contained strict criteria that companies must meet in difficulty if they want to compete for state aid funds at all. We have listened to the Government's explanation that this requires the European Union's legal order and that it cannot be avoided. Otherwise, we can quickly find ourselves in proceedings before European courts. The government's reference to the European legal order sounds very uncreditable if the government coalition on the home labour body has tightened the bill's proposal to the extent that the granting of state aid to an undertaking in difficulty will only be a godly wish and nothing else. At least two other things testify to the bad preparation of the marriage. First time. The financial implications of the law are exclusively used by the government in 2003 and 2004. Nor does it by word of mouth indicate how much State aid is willing to be allocated in the future for the purpose of helping firms in difficulty. However, there is an increasing number of such companies. But apparently, saving in the state budget will be a priority. Even at the cost of new forgiveness. And a second time. Very poor explanations for individual articles of the bill. The explanations are very sceptical, materially flawed, and some are unfortunately not real. Perhaps in the whole picture of the draft law, the following thought of the president on the working body is said: "The legal service is one of those who looks more closely at Slovenian language than the bill-maker, because if you read the bill with a red pencil, it would all be red." Critics are more than obvious, as representatives of ruling parties have come to similar conclusions. Social Democrats want to act constructively, so we have put in place several amendments that certainly improve the bill's proposal in a way that companies can rightly expect state aid in difficulty. We will also justify individual amendments in the discussion below. However, their adoption or non-admission depends on the support of the Social Democrats for the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u123	Thank you, Mr. Han. Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u124	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister with co-worker and co-workers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The calculation of financial assistance from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia to companies is a difficult task, which, despite the consistent implementation of the rules governing this area, almost always brings bad will and dissatisfaction, especially to those companies which are not entitled to this aid, but are, for example, in the same industry, i.e. potential competitors. The legal basis for granting State aid to firms in difficulty is two documents, namely the Law on Aid for rescuing and restructuring companies in difficulty and the Regulation on Indicators, the Content of the Restructuring Programme and the maintenance of records of State aid granted to companies in difficulty. It is only companies registered under the company law. The basic strategy for granting state aid is to enable vulnerable economic companies to restructure, stabilise their operations, maintain healthy business cores and the optimal number of employees. This is particularly true for companies operating in economically less developed areas where the loss of more jobs at an already high unemployment rate would cause serious social problems. In particular, following the signing of the accession agreement on the entry into full membership of the Republic of Slovenia, the European Community has a strong social character and is complementary to the policy of ensuring economic and social cohesion in economically less developed areas. The implementation of the law in practice shows certain shortcomings requiring urgent changes and necessary additions. In order to make the procedures and implementation of the law more effective, the drafter of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Aid Act, for the rescue and restructuring of companies in countries, in particular, wishes to lay down rules on granting State aid in a simple and transparent manner. Both by the state and by the applicants. New Slovenia's Parliamentary Group - the Christian People's Party of the Applicant supports these efforts. In particular, because it will introduce certain necessary and important elements into the law. In particular, the legal basis for granting State aid to undertakings in difficulties which will not conflict with the internal market. Simplification of the procedure for granting State aid to medium and small enterprises. Rationalisation of the expenditure from the budget, taking into account the logarithm of the calculation of the minimum possible amount of State aid required for the survival of the undertaking. And the definition of parameters for determining state aid to firms in difficulty, so that this will be compatible with the guidelines of industrial policy and regional policy in the Republic of Slovenia. The New Slovenia Group will support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on aid for the rescue and restructuring of companies in difficulty for those reasons. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u125	Thank you, Mr. Horvath. Mr Kristijan Janc will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u126	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A respected minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! At its 6th session, the Committee on the Economy, as a parent worker, considered a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on aid for the rescue and restructuring of companies in difficulties following a reduced procedure, as proposed by the Government itself. The opinions and numerous comments of the legislative and legal service on the committee were, of course, taken into account by the amendments together with the representatives of the government or the proposer, namely the Ministry of Economy. In all of this, the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia was actively involved, which further explained at the Committee's meeting its position, which we have also taken into account in whole or in part with the amendments adopted or the amendments proposed. The individual solutions have also been thoroughly presented in the context of the discussion itself under individual articles. We believe in the Slovenian People's Party that there are clear conditions or rules in the proposal for a law on how to deal with these funds, with certain consents of the European Commission, the amount of own resources, the legal basis, simplification, and the shortcoming of the criteria that I think are very important for obtaining such assistance. Rescue assistance is temporary and return aid, the main objective of which is to keep society in difficulty alive while at the same time aiming at eliminating liquidity of the crisis and insolvency. Aid shall be granted for a period not exceeding six months. In short, this law is very hasty in our time, as we estimate that things are still standing in this area and many are waiting for this solution, or for the amendment of this law, and for the addition of this law, which is absolutely necessary. I hope for some it won't be too late. In short, the home committee, together with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, voted on these individual articles of the bill and adopted all the articles. The Slovenian People's Party will support the amendments with all these amendments contained in the law with one great desire and hope that these changes and additions will contribute to greater efficiency, transparency and rapid measures of the aid given and better control of these resources. Above all, that the impact of these funds will be better in the interest of maintaining Slovenian companies that have become in difficulty and thus will be an essential issue of maintaining these jobs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u127	Thank you, Mr. Janz. Mr Sašo Peče will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u128	Respectable present. We can safely say that both the legislative and executive branches of the authorities in Slovenia have in recent years created a macro-economic picture in our country. In doing so, we want to say that both this national assembly and the executive branch or as the legislative and executive branch of power are at fault for the economic situation we have today. It is therefore appropriate that, unfortunately, from time to time, we sometimes adopt a law that is reflected in a positive form, i.e. a law that is reflected in the sense of helping firms in difficulty, but of course we must not forget, and we must always bear in mind that, as a rule, we have failed companies that deal with politics and create or set macroeconomic conditions. On the one hand, both the fiscal terms and the monetary conditions, we determine the amount of taxes, the subsidy and the behaviour of the circulation of money on our market. According to our assessment, therefore, the Slovenian National Party estimates that despite the aspirations of the Slovenian National Party, this National Assembly has rarely dealt with similar material. You will probably recall that only in the previous period have we tried to bring the takeover law, the anti-competition law, the ability law or the right to work relations and many other laws into the procedure of the SNS Group. But all these laws are former authorities, and I fear that this time, too, they will be accompanied by a negative vision, if politics does not interfere with the economy. But whether it is double-faced to prescribe obligations on the one hand, on the other hand, when companies expect something from us, the government's response, or the government's majority, whatever the current one is, leaves businesses alone on the market. But let us leave them only at the moment when certain ratings or reliefs are expected. When they need to be burdened, however, the main task of the policy is to burden them further. In the National Party for this very reason, therefore, we welcome the practice of the work of Slovenian politics, the legislative and executive branches of government in substance or, I apologize, the basic title of this law. The title promises much, but sadly, when the content of this law is read by anyone who reads it in more detail is very empty. According to our assessment, this void will cause precisely this damage, so that we will boast before the European Commission that Slovenia has a positive law before the European Commission. The applicant even stated in his explanation that the European Commission had no comments on this. Gentlemen, of course there are no comments, but when some of the same legal material was adopted in some of the other new members of the European Union that entered after 1.5.2004, the Commission replied: "No, you went too far to protect the domestic economy." This protection has been a little abrasive to them, but they still have a much stronger protection of the domestic economy than we have. At the same time, the Slovenian government strictly forgets the most important element when all protection is thrown into one basket. On the basis of this criterion, the Slovenian Government, both the former and the latter, tends to do so or is based on the fact that any interference on the positive side of the economy is solely subject to the directives of the European Union. However, if you will remember, I think that last year, when the Slovenian National Party passed the takeover law, we received a catastrophicly bitter response from the government, but this is impossible because it means an intervention of politics into the economy. Seven months later, the European Union institutions recommended that the Slovenian Government adopt a new takeover law to protect the domestic economy without delay. But let me go back in the remaining seconds to some of the most important criticisms that we have in the context of the PS SNS to the above-mentioned law. [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] So, tightening the credit conditions or returning the terms and conditions - according to our assessment of the complete absurdity and nonsense proposed by the government. It follows that it makes sense to point out that State aid is limited to the lowest level. Who are we bluffing with? We're only prolonging the agony of decay, nothing else. The criterion set out in Article 7 is also too general. Ladies and gentlemen [[character set-end re-character]] , this kind of legislation is considered to be rather harmful than negative if we speak realistically. On the other hand, we cannot oppose such a law because of its name.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u129	Mr. Peche [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u130	This, however, brings the national party together to all those who are merely puffing up the fine words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u131	Thank you, Mr. Pechet. Mr Willi Rezman will present the position of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u132	Well, in the DeSUS Group, we will join in supporting the proposed law on aid for the rescue and restructuring of companies in difficulty. We have no particular prejudices in this regard. In particular, not because, among other things, it is a matter of aligning with European regulation, because it is a matter of addressing the weaknesses already mentioned on the Committee, because it is also possible to understand this as one of the dimensions of sensitivity to social issues, as well as the problem of assistance to those who are in a regional sense retarded and therefore lagging behind. It's about, let's say, help to a reasonable extent. It is also the fact that there are provisions in the law that rationalize and prevent possible bad experiences, such as we already have. Well, in these experiences it is certainly worth mentioning that these experiences are not necessarily, when aid is being provided by the State, to economic enterprises in the countries. We know, of course, the bad ones, like us, in the textile industry or in the TAM or elsewhere, so that we don't overstate them. We also know what we have in the Slovenian Railways or, for example, in the neighbouring country of Festus, where assistance has been provided, the intervention of the State has proved to be positive. We estimate that our orientation is such that, in the main part, the results of this aid can be meaningful and positive. However, we do not agree with some of the positions that arise. We do not agree that sufficiently protected workers in companies with surpluses would be with certain redundant workers. That is why we also supported the amendment, which provided additional and better protection, and we feel that even if this protection were repeated, if it were double, it would not be too much. We also believe that it is necessary to refrain from such thinking, which speaks of restructuring and aid to companies such as that companies are legal forms, 'perse' itself, without any specific content. And that it's just about saving companies. It's not just about saving companies as legal entities. It's about saving the body, where we have to count not just the owners. We also have to count those who manage. We must also include those who work in these societies. That is why we see in this law also the possibility that will be more sensitive to social issues and to the problem of a faster resolution of major regional differences. And one more thing bothers us a little bit, namely that in every way it has insisted that aid firms who ask for help should themselves make statements that they have not received aid in the past years. And these are the aids that the state has given them. And the state for the aid it's been providing needs to know. If the country does not have this barn cleaned, it must do something in its environment and not impose additional administrative burdens on firms in difficulty. In this we do not defend our position as if it were, I do not know how very difficult it is to write such a statement. However, we feel that the spirit of such thinking is wrong. It's kind of vengeful. If they've already got the money, at least let them write some statements if they don't.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u133	Thank you, Mr. Rezman. Mr Stane Pajk will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u134	Thank you for your word. Your Honors are here! The Act on Aid for the Rescue and Restructuring of Economic Companies in Problems, which is now in force and the Regulation on Indicators, Content of the Restructuring Programme and Accounting for State Aid granted to companies in difficulty, are the legal basis for granting State aid to firms in difficulty. The purpose of granting State aid is to enable companies in difficulty, restructuring, stabilising their operations, maintaining healthy business cores and maintaining an optimal number of jobs. The aid is expected to be granted quickly as the aid is intended for companies in difficulty. The old river says who quickly does, twice does. The principle of rationality was the main guiding principle in granting aid. If we had allowed the company to fail, the costs would have repeatedly exceeded the amount of the aid granted. This is particularly true for companies operating in economically less developed areas. Such assistance in these areas also has a social function and is in line with Article 87 of the Treaty establishing the European Community and the EU guidelines. With full entry into EU membership, the EU acquis has also entered into force, and since the adoption of the law now in force, the EU has been complemented and amended by EU guidelines requiring the amendment of the existing law. A fundamental change in the new Community guidelines is the separation between the granting of State aid to small, medium and large companies. Aid to large companies generally affects distortions of competition and therefore aid to large companies can only be granted by the EU Commission. For small and medium-sized companies, the granting of aid does not have so much effect on distorted competition and therefore the granting of aid is within the competence of the Member State. The aid may only be granted to companies where the loss of the past and the current loss exceeds half of the basic capital or fulfil the insolvency criteria on the single aid principle defined by the exceptions. All this proposed law follows through its contents. The proposed law also amends the shortcomings of the current law and lays down rules that are simple and transparent for the State and the applicant. The proposed law will be supported by the SDS parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u135	Thank you, Mr. Pike. We have completed the presentation of the views of the groups of Members and are moving on to the debate on the articles and amendments tabled, which we will lead on the basis of the review of the amendments of 28.9.2005. I am putting to the debate Article 2 and the amendment by the Group of Members of the Social Democrats, after which the article is deleted. Who wants a word? Here you go, Mr. Kumer.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u136	Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! We in the Social Democrats Group continue to insist on the amendment that we have already tabled on the Committee, because the deletion of the third indent of the first indent of Article 3 of the current law means that workers will no longer be granted the right of retirement in cases where the firm is in the restructuring phase or in the stage of the enforcement settlement. It is necessary to state that the Government, on the labour body itself, has given a strange justification, referring to the cost of staff restructuring, in which these pensions should also be covered. We have once again warned on the Committee that this is not the case because the discharges here are neither covered nor mentioned. After that, government representatives have found a new argument that this indent, which provides workers with the payment of non-combustible discharges, is unnecessary and simply constitutes a legal duplication that these matters are regulated in other laws or regulations. In addition, the said indent should no longer be applicable in the future as it relates to the payment of discharges from previous years. That is why, as I said at the outset, we still advocate that this indent cannot harm, that it does not undermine the consistency of the law and that one guardian is better than less when it comes to protecting the rights of workers. Finally, the replies of the government representatives were not convincing that all procedures relating to the payment of discharges were also legally and powerfully completed, which is an additional argument that it is good for this guardian to remain in this law. And something else about two new indents, namely the new fourth and fifth paragraphs. In the fourth indent, the criteria to be met by the company in order to be, of course, eligible for this aid shall be restrictively tightened. The fourth very general definition defines the intention of state aid so far and uses the term, I quote: 'investments of essential importance for the restoration of the viability of the company'. I ask because, in our Group of Members, we believe that intentionality is precisely defined in the restructuring programme. Therefore, we do not understand why the government can join in a discretionary decision on what is essential for the survival of a society in difficulty that has asked for state aid. And about the fifth indent or paragraph, when it comes to those companies in difficulty where the capital share of the country exceeds 25%. Here I must say that the whole approach of the government has been shown in the drafting of this law. In fact, in the original proposal of the law of this indent came the following. At that time, the government found that this was the way to set the European legal order. This once again speaks of the fact that the very preparation and making of the law, at least as far as we can tell, was bad, in certain cases even superficial.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u137	Thank you, Mr. Kumer. Here you go, Mr. Pike.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u138	Thank you for your word. As far as Article 2 is concerned, we still agree that this is provided for in other laws and that there is no need for duplication. As regards the fifth amendment to Article 5 it is necessary to send this law to the European Commission for review when it is adopted. And if it does not comply with European directives, it will be rejected. It is therefore necessary to bring it into line with European directives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u139	Thank you. Anyone else would like to discuss Article 2 and the amendment to this Article? Then I conclude the debate and move on to the debate on the third article and the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group of Members proposing the deletion of the article. Here you go, Mr. Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u140	Thank you so much for saying that. Have a nice hello again. We have tabled in Article 3 of the amendment to delete this amendment. In particular, compensatory measures to reduce the effects of State aid on operating conditions and to prevent distortions of competition are only one additional criterion to be met by companies in difficulty if they are to compete for State aid resources. We are therefore convinced by the Social Democrats that the measures required are at least partially contrary to the purpose of the law itself. Just because of the minimal impact on the competition of the common European market, small and medium-sized enterprises can apply for state aid. However, the issue of compensatory measures is particularly on the ground if we know that the law does not distinguish between recipients according to the amount of aid granted. Therefore, we believe that our amendment drinks water and that is what we are investing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u141	Thank you, Mr. Han. Anyone else want to join this article? This concludes the debate and brings us to the debate on Article 5 and the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group, which complements Article 7, paragraph 3, of the law. Mr. Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u142	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear representatives and representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! When I discuss Article 5, this debate is also very much referred to Article 7, because we are making an amendment with a similar content and the two articles and these two amendments are also largely related and so that I do not repeat things then, I will now say a few more words. These two amendments or the amendment to Article 5 are extremely important and indeed follows the objectives of the law, namely, the fourth indent of the second paragraph, when it comes to major changes to the law, mentions explicitly social and regional political reasons among the conditions. But if we look at the text of the law, we see that the law doesn't follow it, not enough, but not at all. However, taking account of regional and social aspects is very important in almost all countries of the European Union. While the Union, in its restrictive nature, is also "benevolent" in limiting the granting of restructuring aid, it also accepts exceptions and is also tolerant when it comes to regional policy problems. Let me give you an example. Germany, as the most developed country in Europe, has chosen the privilege of giving relief to companies in the eastern part of Germany now united in the restructuring of businesses. This criterion is particularly up to date for Slovenia due to the following facts. I don't need to list a lot of businesses and industries that are in crisis or in trouble, because we all know them well, it's located right in less developed and border areas, from textiles and other activities. We see that companies are failing in a row in these areas, with all the negative consequences of falling behind regions, regions and with all the negative social consequences. These areas are still below 50% of the gross domestic product of the European Union average, even if we take the narrower areas, and this will unfortunately also in the coming years, as Slovenia is already beating 75% of the EU average. A particular problem is border areas and we have a lot of them, and in this context let us count on the adverse impact of the Schengen border. This influence will be, whether we want it or not, and this is also one of the things where we can be more tolerant or even more tolerant of the Union. I would be "plebating" here to not only accept this amendment, but "plebating" that the government, the Ministry of the Economy and the whole government in general, is more active within the European Union when discussions on the reform of the granting of aid are taking place. We behave here, colleagues and colleagues and representatives of the government, don't blame me, this isn't just about this government now, it's unfortunately also in the past that we're more papal than the pope. We accept the most stringent criteria set out in the Directives, although the Directives usually give a certain degree of discretion to translate into domestic legislation and conduct. And we take the sharpest solutions and we tie our hands with it. Indeed, then, someone in Brussels is suffering on the shoulder, yes, fine, you behave, disciplined, but the consequences are, of course, negative and remain at home. As I hear, read and monitor, discussions on the reform of the granting of aid are under way and will have to be very active here, affecting solutions. Now we are full members, we do not have to, as we have in the past, accept every matter as a sure fact and fight to protect our interests. More developed EU countries intervene very often in case of problems, despite the regulation and directives of the European Union, when they are in difficulty, and are important for the wider regions or for the national economy. This was not just the case, for example, with airlines in crisis, but we know about the cases of construction companies in Germany and a number of other cases could be listed as the eastern part of Germany and so on. And what is important is that we know what the European Union is particularly sensitive to and why it is restrictive in the policy of granting aid - because of the threat of competition. Colleagues and colleagues, this law is largely and properly focused on small and medium-sized enterprises, and the craftsmen are not at any risk of competition in Europe, anyone. Even for our situation, large businesses in Europe are not particularly important and do not pose a particular threat or are not so sensitive to the threat of competition in Europe. Let me just finish with the reinforcements, with the details of what I'm saying and what we're proposing. If we look at the government's report on State aid allocation - this is 2003 data for Slovenia, we also have 2004 - and we compare it with the European Union, we see the following picture: In Slovenia, 0.65% of the gross domestic product in 2003 is state aid. Last year, this percentage was even lower, 0.54%; in the European Union, the average was 0.40%. But Denmark had - and as developed as - 0.49% and the Federal Republic of Germany, precisely because of the exceptions they have made, 0.68%, Italy 0.44% and Portugal 0.96%, and at the level of development like us. All these years, as I say, we have also spent too little resources on restructuring, and that is why we are now faced with as many problems as we should have been. And it would be wrong to continue this practice. The share of State aid in Slovenia’s total state aid or aid, including agriculture, is 5,53% in 2004, and 47.7% for agriculture, not to mention other data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u143	Thank you, Mr. Horvath. Anybody else want some? Yes, Mr. Testen.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u144	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I don't see the Minister, the fellow Members are here, Members and Members of Parliament! Look, it was Mr Horvath's debate that encouraged me, and I think that restructuring is particularly important in the field of personnel. We talked a lot about human resources restructuring. Now I don't know what's been going on around here, this was meant by that part of the restructuring that's supposed to forgive itself and the other part of the restructuring that's supposed to improve that structure of the personnel that's been running with the individual company. For me, this second part of the restructuring is extremely important. It is extremely important because I think that the main culprits for poor results in companies, as well as for textiles or shoe industry or any similar industry, are in the carriers, in the personnel. I'll tell you on a plastic case. There is a Ciciban shoe factory in Mirno near Novi Gorica, which is expanding intensively. It is expanding intensely, but it is true that this is a company that has been returned to its owners, that these are the people who are in control of this business. I think that more power should be directed towards restructuring, in addition to this urgent financial assistance, in this direction, in order for these companies to be staffed, and that they will then be easier to work from here on out. However, that this law is necessary to adopt I think because some companies urgently need these funds that they are waiting for. We are also obliged to regulate these things in accordance with the European directives. This is particularly important for small and medium-sized enterprises, and it is particularly important to me that I can hope that practice will confirm this - that we can help these companies more quickly, because I think that there was a major problem in assistance so far, or a very big problem of time delay, and then these companies came into such trouble that it was then acceptable in many cases only to wind up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u145	Thank you, Mr. Testen. Anybody else want to discuss Article 5? If not, I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a debate on Article 6 and the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party of New Slovenia, the Slovenian People's Party and DeSUS, which would add a new paragraph to Article 8 of the Act. Who wants to discuss it? Nobody. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to the debate on Article 7 and the amendment by the Group of Members of the Social Democrats, which amends the sixth indent of Article 10, paragraph 1. Who wants a word? Nobody. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to the debate on Article 8 and the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group of Members, by which the article is deleted. Here you go, Mr. Kumer.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u146	Thank you for your word. Article 8, in the form proposed by the proposer, implies additional tightening of the repayment of the loan. On the home working body, on the Committee on the Economy, the representative of the Legislature pointed out that the justification for amending this amendment was incorrect and misleading, as the applicant referred to editorial corrections and thus tried to cover clearly another purpose. Of course, excuses, misdemeanors and evasiveness have led to the new amendment we have in the new text. If we were able to say about the previous amendment that it was - on purpose I used that word and forgive myself - misleading, then we can objectively find that this amendment is ridiculous. The amendment proposes, in the second indent of Article 11, that we replace the last word with the first and the number 12 by 6. The second indent of Article 11 would then read: "The short-term loan must be repaid no later than six months after the payment of the first instalment to the company." I have to say that I have this much better arranged at home, in the family, if I can get a loan from my wife. Not in such a harsh way. So in this case, it really isn't a big help. With such a proposal, not only do we not help companies or people who are in trouble with these companies, but we are literally making a fool out of nothing. Half a year in the economy is very short of time, and it is incredibly short of time for the company to restructure and start operating positively, repay debts, etc. You know how much time means in six months, so of course I suggest you support our amendment, of course this article is deleted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u147	Thank you, Mr. Kumer. Anyone else want to discuss Article 8? If not, then I am closing the debate and we are moving on to the debate on Article 11 and the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group, which deletes the second paragraph of Article. Mr. Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u148	Thank you for saying so, Mr President. Unfortunately, we must also find in this article that it further exacerbates the conditions for granting restructuring aid. I don't mean to be ironic, but a man gets the impression it's more of a marriage. I agree that we accept it, that there will be no misunderstanding, but I am "plebing" to accept the amendments and to improve it to be more effective. To get back to thinking that I won't be ironic, I kind of get the impression that this is more of a law limiting aid to firms in difficulty and restructuring rather than an effective restructuring. See, this is the exclusion of companies that have outstanding obligations towards the country. This dictatorship is problematic and not precise enough, or not selective enough. I understand that in some cases very large obligations towards the country, when there are no prospects, let's say that the company could be restructured so that the dead person would not be saved in order to use this exceptionally. But not in every case, because the kind of diction that is now possible is the minimum amount, someone has little, I don't know 5,000 dollars in debt, and that's why they won't get any help. I think it doesn't make sense that, if so, then perhaps some lower limit should be set to how long this debt is. And maybe other measures, other solutions. See what can happen. We have cases where the company has outstanding obligations towards the country and at the same time the state also has outstanding obligations towards the company. And it is quite possible that these outstanding obligations of the State towards the company are greater than the outstanding obligations of the company towards the State. And in that case, it would be really unfair not to give any help. I now feel that the state of state payments is improving, even in the light of the amendment of the Public Finance Act. We have discussed this a lot, the adoption of this law and the budget. But there's still a problem. There have been situations where the company has also been in difficulty many times because of the non-payment of works that it has done, say in the implementation of the motorway programme or infrastructure. Since we did not have a better solution, we suggest pumping, so that perhaps only a more suitable solution could be found.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u149	Thank you, Mr. Horvath. Someone else wants to discuss Article 11. If not, I am closing the debate and moving on to the debate on Article 14 and the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group of Members, with which the article is to be deleted. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u150	Thank you for your word. We propose deleting this article for a simple reason, because the dictatorship is not clear enough and we fear that this will only mean additional red tape, so that companies will have to write some reports, report some data. It seems to us that this is simply not necessary, that this is not rational. The government has all the information on how much aid it has given to an individual company in the past. And in fact, let him use that information. Since, as is the case now, the company could only reply yes or no, which is also too small, since it is ultimately essential whether it is some small minor amount received by an entity to resolve liquidity problems, or whether it has received a serious amount for restructuring. And in such a case, it is necessary to take a closer look at the implementation of the programme, whether it was effective or good. In such a case, I see no reason why the state would not allow the company to be restructured in the long run or that there were no results. Of course, it matters how high it was. For this reason, we also propose deleting this Article.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u151	Hall to Mr. Horvath. Anyone else want to discuss Article 14 and the amendment? Mr. Pike, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u152	Thank you for saying that again. I think and also the position of our Group is that whoever asks for help is right to include a list of these aids which he has received, why not. I don't see anything wrong here. This is then checked at the state level, for those who provide aid, whether it is harmonised, eventually things are harmonised and the matter is resolved. As regards the restrictions that are in the law through these articles - yes, the restrictions are simply because the directives were being followed. Once again, I can point out that the European Commission would give a negative assessment to the law if it violated these directives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u153	Thank you, Mr. Pike. Mr. Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u154	First of all, I must challenge my esteemed colleague Pajk in this conclusion. I have talked about this before, and it is also important how we read the directives and, above all, how we implement them and translate them into practice. It is always possible to literally rewrite them or choose the sharpest option, and in this case, unfortunately, it does. Now we will not go into the details of the brother of the individual directive, but I have myself looked at some directives, some have been warned where the sharpest options are actually chosen, the more restrictive variants because a number of directives allow a certain margin of manoeuvre to be followed. That's one. Secondly, with this data, it is true that companies can provide this information, but this requires a lot of work, as well as the question of if they provide accurate data, and will still have to be checked in the ministry. The Ministry of Economy and other ministries shall have at their disposal all information, business data, figures, the extent of the aid received by the company and, I hope, the results achieved in the restructuring or in the use of those funds. This applies not only to the Ministry of the Economy, but also to the Ministry of Labour and others, so that we do not have concepts of Optimum and so on. That's why I think she's even a bigger security guard if you use the data that the government has or that the Ministry has. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u155	Thank you, Mr. Horvath. Mr. Pike has spoken. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u156	What can I say? We are in the European Community. Such manners were in force in the Balkans to violate certain rules. If they did this to me, what could happen to us: the law is rejected, the law cannot go into life and, on the other hand, it is harmful to the societies that need it, so I will support such a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u157	Thank you, Mr. Pike. Mr. Mikolitch.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u158	Thank you very much. I'll be brief or quite practical. Look, I personally believe that I have no problem with this article 14 or the contents of the amendment proposed by Mr Horvat. But, look, all the calls for different aids are being granted, and I'm pretty sure in the future that this will actually be written in the invitation to tender, so it's not really worth it if we have this in article 14 in this amendment of the law, and it's also here that it's written. This, in fact, from another point of view, still requires the Secretariat to actually verify, despite what Mr Horvat said earlier, about the benefits of the past. We know that you can't get money twice for the same purpose, even if it wasn't spent properly. I feel that there is nothing more important than the law has now proposed that this should remain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u159	Thank you, Mr. Mikolitch. Mr. Horvath, have you returned your call? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u160	Regarding the debate on how much we owe as members of the Union to follow the directives. We owe them, and this is not the case; I will also support the law, but it is the fact that we will have a better marriage and not go into any more restrictions than is strictly necessary under the directives. And given that the European Union is mainly linked to regional development and social consequences, it is also very tolerant of someone who is being proactive. Now we must decide whether we will follow blindly and select the sharpest variants of these directives, of course for the benefit of hair damage and then even our own money cannot then be used to support restructuring. I do not know how the package prepared by Dr Damjan's special group will be able to carry out reforms and more efficient restructuring because we are actually late compared to other countries. Also with the countries, the new members of the European Union. Here I have one table showing that we're somewhere in the middle, there's a bunch of other countries ahead of us, Estonia, etc. But if we continue to do so, that we will receive as sharply as possible and accept everything blindly and be popes more than popes, then nothing good will come our way. And here it is also necessary to have a little bit of money and sometimes to take some risks, as others do. I'll make an example of another matter. In recent years, the implementation of the so-called Stability and Growth Pact has been extremely robust. It was the most developed and proposed countries that forced him to be accepted, including the Federal Republic of Germany, as well as Italy, France, that violated him most all the years. And there were long discussions and arguments, and even the case went to the European Court of Justice at the request of the European Commission. And what happened in the end? Nothing happened! This pact has begun to soften and change nicely, and they have achieved their interests and goals.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u161	Thank you, Mr. Horvath. Mr. Pike. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u162	Again, thank you. Once again, I must point out that it is necessary to follow the directives and, on the other hand, we are risking that the law will not be adopted and that the damage will be done. As far as we are concerned, we are more papal than the pope - I believe in the well-intentioned government and that the government has made this law with good intentions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u163	Thank you, Mr. Pike. Mr. Rezman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u164	First of all, I would like to say that as regards the fact that it has been pointed out that if we have a request under tendering conditions, it is necessary to declare that we had to put it there first. This is said to be up to us whether we will require meaningful or meaningless documents under tendering conditions. Another time. I don't think there's any problem, it's hard to write a statement like that, but it doesn't make sense. I don't know why they would ask me to act absurdly. If I say so on the case, because Mr Horvat explained it, it's something like this. Mr Horvath thinks that some help and a few years later I ask him again for help, and then he asks me to admit that he has already given it to him, because his behavior about giving it to me is probably absurd if he gave it to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u165	Thank you, Mr. Rezman. Mr. Kumer.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u166	Thank you for your word. I would have told Mr Pajk, without any controversy, but I would have reassured him that this debate or these proposals are far from being afraid to land in the Balkans because you are already at work. But look, the point was in this; European directives have some elasticity, some stretch. Why should we, when adopting our own national legislation, be in this elastic variant. And that's the point, and that's the thing my colleague Horvath was talking about. Not into their own legislation of the most acute conditions and then to say, only adhere to European directives. Since, last but not least, it is our duty, despite the fact that we are within twenty-five, to somehow follow the national interest and that we also have little courage and ingenuity and knowledge, that we know that we can adapt this stretch to our own legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u167	Thank you, Mr. Kumer. Mr. Starman.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u168	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor. My opinion is that this statement is totally unnecessary because the one who will write this statement will not get these funds because it is written in previous articles that he can only get funds once or only lie. But I'd like to ask one other question. I'm afraid with all these articles - I don't know, we don't have one such answer - we won't finally adopt a good law and virtually disable any state aid. I don't know who else is going to do it, and here I want an answer from the government - even the conditions for granting state aid, so that we don't have a nice marriage then, but in the end, the five billion that the company probably needs bloodyly will remain unshared. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u169	Thank you, Mr. Starman. Mr. Pike.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u170	Yes, once again, I have to say that the directives must be respected that I am in order to find optimism, but I think this optimism is enshrined in this law and it is simply necessary to respect these directives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u171	Thank you, Mr. Pike. Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u172	Thank you so much for saying that. For a short time, colleagues from SD, as far as the legislation of the various superstandards is concerned, you were, of course, the right masters in the past term. So I could list here ten things from agriculture, like this, from the sleeve: the veterinary law is, say, like this and we had a chance to deal with it here. Many matters were involved, and we warned you not to do so. Here we have actually developed some debate as to whether it is necessary to state in the aid application that the company has already received some assistance in the past. So it's a basic question of whether the help that he got must be known by the one who got it, whether only the one who gave the help should know. For me, this dilemma is completely irrelevant. So he's going to sign off on his application for help. This will, of course, also show that it is aware that aid has already been received in difficulty, and then the next 22nd Article, which states that the Ministry is constantly checking the implementation of the restructuring programme and monitoring how this programme is being implemented. Thus, it is only this dilemma that he will mark there, I do not know if a farmer must make a milk premium cross in a subsidy and this is what the EU requires and because some of these crosses have not done so, they have now lost their milk premiums and are complaining because the agency has rejected their application. So these things, as far as the EU is concerned, are strict, say, in agriculture. And I don't know, although I haven't deepened myself into this matter, but I think it's such a broad debate that someone marks that they've already gotten some help, completely meaningless. Well, he'll mark that he got it. How, how much, why will this be a matter of scrutiny at the Ministry, when additional aid is granted to it or whether it is justified or not? I think that this law is in this direction to help businesses in difficulty, but it is not that they, as it might be, want to be shown here, are being limited in these acquisitions of aid. This is certainly not the intention of the government, and I have reiterated this position once again, because we will have to vote on this in the end. And as far as our Group of Members is concerned, I would like to say that we will not support this amendment. It's more about someone, I'd say, cosmetics than some meaningful comment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u173	Thank you, Mr. Sok. Mr. Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u174	Thank you for your word. I am very glad that colleague Starman, who comes from the economy as well as I do and has good and bad experience, said very well how and what. Look, okay, colleague Sok, the case of agriculture is a good case and I don't want this government to repeat the mistakes of past governments or ministries. The decision is for deregulation, for less administration, and this is particularly important in this law, where one of the priorities is more and easier to provide assistance to small and medium-sized enterprises. What ministries and even more reliable data can provide is unnecessary for individual economic operators to provide such data. And the question is, not only do they have administrative work, but they will provide credible data. So, anyway, they're gonna have to be checked and the ministry's gonna have a job. That's one thing. Secondly, once again, Comrade Pike, there will be no misunderstanding that it would not turn out to be as if the proposed amendments or I were taking the lead in our debate in not respecting the rules in the European Union. I have some little experience from this European Union, because I have been both a convention and an observer in the European Parliament, on the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, and I have listened to a lot of discussions and a lot of material read and seen how things are going in practice. Fine rules are established, and they are not respected in the same way as they are, in order to benefit from their damage or to propose changes. I do not wish to state the infringements, but to maximize what the directives allow us to do, because there is a certain elasticity and a certain room of manoeuvre to make maximum use of it, as other countries do. And with this, I conclude, above all, that the government is more than it was in the past when we were not full-fledged members, and we have not had the possibility that now as equal members, that in Brussels, when the debates on individual directives are taking place, and in particular, economic aid itself, we have not had the opportunity to advocate solutions that will actually suit us better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u175	Thank you, Mr. Horvath. Mr. Visjak has called.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Dear Members and Members! To this amendment, I might tell you the key reasons why this has happened. This was not inside because we wanted to burden the economy in any way with some unnecessary matters, but on the contrary. One of the key reasons for this provision is that applications are much faster to be resolved. In fact, as you know, a very restrictive provision of directives on the frequency or frequency of allocations is that this can only be done once and for the last time, of course. And that's why we want to solve it very quickly when it's on the table. For this is one of the key shortcomings of the law-making system so far. Procedural treatment of applications took too long and usually, when the company, if it received this aid, was long overdue and a whole set of State aid was also unsuccessfully granted - due to time. And if you let the application be minimized - and we have determined what is really the minimum necessary - and if you leave the entire apparatus then to check that the state aid has already obtained before, not least some legal predecessors of a society, and go to registers how this has happened, of course this will take time. And I think it's much less a problem for society to write a statement like this, which goes on after my assessment, say, five to ten minutes, than to let an official go through every channel to see if such a company has already received help. In the light of the speed of solving the problem and in the light of the effectiveness of the allocation of these funds, this provision is actually on-the-spot and, of course, the Government does not support the amendment to Article 14.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u177	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u178	Some people think this cosmetics is a waste of time. I guess women wouldn't agree with that. I'm not either for a very simple reason. If we - when they get a statement from the Ministry, they will, of course, have to check whether it is appropriate or not, or whether it will simply have to believe. But it's probably not about belief. Then we don't need it anyway, because we're going to believe those that Mr. Starman was talking about that someone can make up. Well, it's necessary to check in any case and if we have, I would say, on the spot itself, I don't know why it would be faster to check this data indirectly, through a statement than where it is already. For this reason, we believe that this resistance is against the fact that as few such statements as possible are written, some expression of the spirit of time, which unfortunately does not talk about how much they would be in favour of businesses and the reduction of administrative and other obstacles to business.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u179	Thank you, Mr. Rezman. Mr. Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u180	Thank you very much. I would also like to clarify this dilemma that has now been expressed. See, the role must be resolved as soon as possible on the committee responsible for this, and it goes to the government in the final decision. Of course, in this procedure all these checks will take place. In short, we want to play a role in mediating it, in order to reach the decision of the first filter as soon as possible and then in the epilogue procedure as soon as possible. At that time all these things are also checked out, which is a perfectly normal thing. But we wouldn't want it to be in the pre-phase - in short, all the checks and all the further stages waiting for it. Once again, the key experience, because this is a novelty, is that the aid is too late. That is why we want to simplify the procedures and put the matter through as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u181	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Starman.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u182	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would ask the Minister: Have the aids already been granted this year? Secondly, my question and my concern at the law in general is, with regard to the clause, if aid has ever been granted, that the applicant no longer has the right to new aid. This is, in my opinion, the retroactive operation of the law that we are setting up today, and it changes the conditions for back - the one who has already received, does not get, does not have the right. From this point of view, I think this part, whether or not it is in line with the European Directive, is controversial. It seems to me that this should apply to the future, not to those aids that have ever been granted. This, in all cases, is the same for all laws. We hear of constitutional disputes on this subject, and I think there can be such conflicts when we intervene. From purely concrete and practical examples, I could say that some companies have received solid aid and have also managed to restructure and resolve problems with this assistance. For a variety of reasons, some companies have only received tiny bits, trinkets, a couple hundred thousand tolars, which did not help themselves and dug themselves out of no trouble. This law, however, prevents them from getting this help in the coming years. It seems to me that there is an essential and substantive issue here, which it would be wise to look at, but to consider that we would not have any later problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u183	Mr. Starman, the first question was not clear enough, could you repeat it?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u184	I would only like to know if this year's subsidies or aid have already been granted because it is much towards the end of the year.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u185	Thank you. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u186	Thank you very much. First, one principled answer. These aids are, in fact, an exception, and this is the possibility for the State to, although the European Community's orientation on this is very clear: as little as possible, the better. Because, in fact, developed countries, more developed countries than we are, they don't even have these aids anymore, but they only have development aid. This is the way out, the resolution of some of the crisis issues that you actually have - I don't know, other than that the country is mediating; they don't find a way. And this is possible only exceptionally, countries are allowed to do so under very strict conditions. And the guidelines also set the deadlines, so to speak, five years, exceptionally after or ten under certain conditions. This is also stated in the legal text. I'd like to clear up this dilemma, because I can see, it seems to me that there's a different way of looking at it. A key way and a key economic policy must be developmental, that is to say, to draw up subsidies in the form of technological developments; in short, in higher productivity and thus a higher added value. Exceptionally, when someone gets in trouble, this aid is justified to get, but in such a way that the aid depends. And it is up to the company how it will define the restructuring programme it will write, which the company will submit, and if it submits it to fail, in fact, in a short period of time it will end with a correctional examination. These are the guidelines. We can't do that. And in fact, I don't know if it's even somehow logical that if someone doesn't do this correctional exam, then let some new form have a chance.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u187	Mr. Secretary, I'm afraid your time has run out. Mr. Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u188	Thank you for your word. With regard to what Mr Minister says, I would like to say a few more words to clarify matters as much as possible and there will be no misunderstandings. I fully agree, Minister Vizjak, that it would be desirable to have as few such fire-fighting interventions as possible, but that there would be as many of those pitiful incentives for technological development and innovation as possible and so on. But since I have been in this Parliament for some time now and have experienced and cooperated, I must say very well with the Minister and many ministers of the economy, including Minister Visiak, we have had such discussions that not enough of these measures and money for assistance and restructuring will be listened to in every mandate, with every minister. I remember when they had their speeches before the Committee on the Economy, which I am now leading, some ministers - I will give names as well: Dr Petrinova as a professor from the Faculty of Economics, or when he came in - I remember the Dragonja Method and some others as well; the main issue was in presenting that they would not go to the Ministry of Economics, but, above all, to really quality development issues. Clearly, the problems that have arisen have been underestimated, and these are not the problems that this government would now cause. I am completely honest and I want to be correct and honest, but they have over the years, because we have too slowly restructured the economy and maintained healthy cores in life, and sometimes they may have kept those who did not have a perspective. This is a volatile situation and this needs to be cleaned up as soon as possible, because otherwise social and other problems arise and then they are confused here and there is so much less money in their space for other measures that we should actually take and are better quality. And I just want to say this about the directive. See, as an example of one article, when we say that the Directives must be adhered to blindly. We say in law: aid that cannot be granted for financial restructuring. But now I have to quote the directive. The Directive states, I quote, this is in point 16: 'The rescue aid shall not normally be granted for financial restructuring'. So a certain space gives, so that the thesis does not apply, that everything is as sacred as it is written somewhere or as we sometimes interpret things well. But I'll support the marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u189	Thank you, Mr. Horvath. Anyone else wants to discuss Article 14 and the amendment to Article 14? If not, then I'm closing the debate. In accordance with the timing of the meeting, amendments will be decided today in the framework of the half-hour vote after the end of the 22nd item of the agenda or no later than 20.45 hours. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 22. PERIOD OF THE DAY - FIRST REVELATION OF THE PROPOSAL FOR THE PARTICIPATION OF COMPETITION WORKERS AND THE OWNERSHIP OF WORKERS. The draft law was tabled by a group of Members with first-signed Bojan Kontic. With regard to this law, a group of ten Members with the first signed Merrani Potrče requested that the national assembly hold a general debate. I give the floor to the representative of the proposers, Bojan Kontic, for a further explanation of the bill. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u190	Thank you very much, Mr. President. There are no government representatives yet. They're probably on their way. Dear colleagues and colleagues. We rightly expect the proposed law on the participation of employees in the company's profits and the ownership of employees to receive sufficient parliamentary support after the first reading, which will allow further consideration and possible improvement of the current text of the law. In the predictions that we need to take a step forward in the area governed by our proposal for a law, we are not alone. The need to enforce the participation of employees in the company's profits is found in the social agreement for the period 2003-2005, in which the social partners have written down their agreement that it is necessary to speed up the preparation of the law on the participation of employees in the company's profits. The coalition contract of the current government parties also announces the regulation of employee participation in profits and, last but not least, the government advocates the participation of employees in the company's profits and ownership of employees, but not with the law proposed by the opposition Members. I am convinced of this claim that the negative opinion of this law has been adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia at a written meeting, although it is a law that is in the interest of all the social partners, i.e. the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. In 1997 the Government of the Republic of Slovenia prepared a suitable proposal for a law on the participation of employees in the company's profits, which followed European recommendations and experiences in this area, but regulated only labour participation in profits, not the ownership of employees, the so-called labour shareholding. Nor did the 1997 bill provide tax reliefs as key to the implementation of employee financial participation processes. Unfortunately, the proposal has not been adopted or has not been debated in Parliament, the expert has assessed that the proposal is in line with the recommendations of the European Union and does not address the institutional regulation of employee stock. Entry and establishment of profit schemes with organised ownership of shares already acquired by domestic owners in the privatisation process, tax relief for businesses and individuals should be regulated. All forms of participation in profit exempt social contributions, withdrawals from employee stockholding linked to pension savings. The proposal, which we have referred to for consideration and today we are talking about, takes into account some of the solutions, but in particular the following: a new chapter on labour stocking, which is linked to the regulation of participation in profit, is added to investments in pension savings, namely in the case of tax reliefs when leaving the work plan, tax reliefs are further worked out and this key area is no longer left to the field, so tax legislation, a link between wage policy and employee participation in profit has been made. The proposed law therefore implements part of the recommendations made by the profession in this area and has further opened the way for the integration of labour participation in the profits and ownership of employees, in the form of the recommendations of the European Union and the requirements and interests of our economic practice. Experience from countries that develop and promote different forms of employee participation in profit shows that this unequivocally positive impact on the higher level of productivity and profitability of companies has less frequency and less significant fluctuations in employment as well as higher and more stable employment growth. The recommendation of the Council of the European Union on the participation of employees in profits and on entrepreneurship results has set itself the objective of encouraging the Member States of the European Union to make greater use of employees' participation in profits and entrepreneurship results. Only three countries should be mentioned in the comparative analysis with other countries. In the UK, different schemes of profit participation, cash, option, share, immediate or deferred payment schemes are possible. They are fundamental principles of all those schemes; employees have the right to participate in the company's profits under the same conditions. In the United States of America, out of more than 7,000 corporations whose shares are listed in three American organised markets, about 1000 or 14.28% of co-ownership corporations were already in the EU, with a share of 4% to 73% and an average of 10%. These 1,000 corporations represent 29% of the market value and 27% of sales and 20% of all jobs in the United States. Finally, let me mention France, which is also the only country in which the participation of employees in the profits of the company by law is defined as compulsory for all companies with more than 50 employees, so that the payment of the assets from participation in the profits must be deferred for at least three years. We have also written a similar solution in marriage. Employers are encouraged to pay part of their profits to workers on the basis of tax relief and non-payment of contributions. This is of particular importance due to the practice so far, since already the Company Act allows a share company to ensure the right to participate in the company's profits to employees. But since the cost of payment is high, there are few such decisions. Without tax incentives, this arrangement will certainly never come to an end. Tax reliefs are determined under the proposed law for that part of the profit of the business year, whose remuneration to workers is deferred for at least three years and does not exceed 25% of the profit, but not more than 15% of the amount of wages paid in the company in the financial year in which this profit was made. Part of the profits paid to individual employees under this contract shall not exceed the average monthly amount of the employee’s salary paid during this financial year. This, of course, does not mean that profits cannot be paid to a greater extent. This simply means that this profit, paid to a greater extent, is not subject to tax relief. The company of the authorising officer included in the labour stock plan with the sole management activity of the founders’ shares shall not pay the corporate income tax. Interest on profits for employees and the payment of part of the remuneration for the purchase of shares of the company shall be taxed on income as income from the property only on sale of shares or on withdrawal from the labour stock plan, otherwise no income shall be paid from these assets. In the case of the sale of shares or the withdrawal of taxes there is also no tax where the seller of the shares makes the whole purchase for pension insurance for himself or for immediate family members. Participation in profits for employees in accordance with the labour stock plan is taxed on income only during the first five years of ownership, the share of employees and after a falling percentage up to five years in accordance with the law governing the income to be supplemented in this part. It is also possible to incorporate this ladder into this law. We also envisaged four different ways of paying: in cash, in company shares, under an alternative scheme, that is either shares or cash and under a combined scheme, i.e. shares and cash. In addition to the participation of employees in the company's profits, this law also governs the new labour stock and/or employee shareholding. A labour stock plan is introduced as a joint decision between employees and society in order to obtain tax relief on this basis in a manner, under conditions and within the limits laid down by law. Labour equity is being introduced with a view to improving corporate governance and thus the company's business for the benefit of owners and employees. The legal possibility of payment of salaries for the purpose of purchasing shares in the company is also introduced. The contract on payment of salaries for the purpose of implementing the labour stock plan is a contract whereby the company undertakes to pay part of the remuneration to employees for the purpose of purchasing the company’s shares in accordance with the plan, within the time limits and in the manner set out in the contract. The contract on the payment of part of the salary is a contract whereby the company and employees, after a certain period of time or less than three years, pay no more than 10% of the annual salary, which shall not exceed the average monthly amount of the employee’s salary paid during the financial year in which the profit would be the subject of this contract. During the period since the introduction of the law into the parliamentary procedure, we have organised quite a few public tribunals on this subject. So far, except by the government, we have not received a negative opinion. All participants considered the law as a good basis for the actual introduction of employees' participation in the profits and shareholding of employees or the labour shareholding. Of course, as with all proposals, concerns are also present. Employees, because of past bad experiences, are proposing the installation of as high-quality safeguards as possible against the abuse of this law. They also have thoughts about deferred payments and at least some of them would like to receive them as soon as the profits are split. They are also afraid that part of the profits that will belong to them will be negligiblely small. We are considering introducing a provision in the law that would provide that employees should be given a profit-sharing decision by the assembly, 25% of this profit will be divided and that this is not left to the judgement of those who decide on the division. The Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia recalls the inadmissibility of obligations and advocates the principle of volunteering. They argue that it is unacceptable for the law to introduce a system of profit participation as an obligation. The introduction of the system must be a matter of free decision and agreements between companies and employees. The group that drafted this proposal also shared views on this issue. Finally, she suggested that, in situations where today, as an incentive for the quality of the work of workers, fear and not the principle of trust between employees and owners is the only thing that must be enshrined in the law is the obligation of the system of participation in profits for companies above 30 employees. Either the number 30 is the optimal one, and it's a matter of further discussion. In the debate held under the auspices of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia, it was pointed out that the law was unfair to employees in the field of so-called social activities. The same comment was also made by the Association of Councils of Workers of Slovenian Companies. With regard to the substantive design of the bill, given the undisputed positive business effects of the financial participation of employees not only in economic organisations, but also in non-economic organisations, it would certainly be worth considering the appropriate regulation of the so-called 'game of Sharing', participation in various other results such as cost savings, product and service quality raising, productivity raising, which is in fact the only possible form of financial participation in non-profit organisations, at the same time may represent an important addition to the so-called 'profit sharing' also in economic organisations. This would significantly increase the practical value and importance of the law and extend it to the area of non-economic activity, thus also meeting the conditions for renaming the law on financial participation and the internal ownership of employees. We are proposing that the area of financial participation and internal ownership of workers in the field of non-economics could be better regulated by the law on public institutions. Many proposals to improve this law are likely to be made in the debate today. This is also the proposalr's wish. We have taken the first step and we invite all interested parties to cooperate, but above all we want to actively involve the government coalition in the process of regulating this area. These are the themes that are taking Slovenia forward into the process of successfully competing with the most developed countries in the world. Let me conclude with the idea that many have claimed that recognition of capitalism as currently the most successful system has survived forever. The new value does not create only capital. In many ways, it depends on the knowledge and energy invested by employees, and this must not only remain as a cost in the form of wages, but must also result in the participation of value-added creators in sharing this generated profit. The largest capital of the company is employed in this company. In the parliamentary group and also in the party we bet on people in the belief that people are the source of the competitive advantage of Slovenia. In doing so, we want to invest in people, in knowledge and ability to stimulate our further development, and not by reducing social security, to ensure competitiveness, as some suggest. The law that we are proposing will ensure that for the good results of my work, all together I will be better motivated by participation in profit, which we will also share among those who create it with their work and knowledge. So today we have the opportunity to say to this law and to allow for a second and third hearing, in which it is, of course, possible to supplement, amend and shape this law according to the will that is present in this House. But I suggest we don't miss your chance today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u191	Thank you, Mr. Kontic. I give the floor to the representative of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Mrs Mariti Cotman, State Secretary. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u192	Thank you, Mr President, for a nice welcome once again to all Members and Members of Parliament. The Government does not support the proposal for a law, as a number of provisions are inconsistent with other legislation in the field of economic system, inflexible and would unduly burden economic operators. The adoption of such a law would delay the opportunity, so the drafting of the law should be undertaken more carefully and in particular in cooperation with the social partners and taking into account the tax aspect. We should look for a synergy effect, and the current proposal represents only a highly bureaucratic and over-represented way of paying the wage. In the Republic of Slovenia, the participation of employees in the company’s profits and the ownership of employees is now regulated by the Company Company Act, which allows the company to guarantee the rights of participation in the company’s profits to employees as well. Workers may acquire new shares in exchange for the part of the salary that belongs to them from participating in the company's profits, which must be the basis either in the law or in the statute. There is currently no other direct legal basis for such a decision by the Assembly in Slovenia, and therefore a statutory definition is needed, which must also be sufficiently specific. We are opposed to the proposal for a mandatory determination of profit participation, since there is no particular need for a decision on the participation of employees in profits in such a rigid legal framework to be taken by the legislator. In particular, the legislator's task is to regulate and encourage the participation of employees in profit and labour. The objectives and purposes and the visions for such a bill should be broader, and the bill suggests that tax relief is the only factor in achieving the objectives of the bill or in implementing the law. The reliefs are too extensive, too narrowly defined and incompatible with the purposes and objectives of the existing tax relief under tax laws, for example, the Income Act and the Law on corporate income tax. On the basis of that, the Government opposes the so-called draft law and proposes to the National Assembly not to accept it as an appropriate basis for the next stages of the legislative procedure. Since the arrangements for the participation of employees in the sharing of profits and labour shareholders could make an important contribution to the creation of an effective entrepreneurial environment in which employers can be actively involved or involved in a slightly modified role, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will draw up a proposal for a law that will systematically regulate the subject matter more consistently.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u193	Thank you, Mrs. Cotman. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Miran Potrč will present the position of the Socialist Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u194	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The content and meaning of the law have been correctly and accurately described by the first-signed Member of Social Democrats Bojan Kontic. He also described the experience that many developed countries in Europe and the United States have with similar arrangements. He also said that at most of the consultations that we have organised in the party of the Social Democrats so far, the law has experienced not only in principle but also concrete support. The proposals whose solutions are to be re-evaluated and how the law is to be supplemented or amended were not given to the discussion of the law in the National Assembly, but to consider them when adopting the law in the second and third readings. The only government - and this is not only characteristic, but also sad and worrying - does not support the law. Yes, exactly, it does not support, as its principled positive attitude towards the objectives of the law does not mean much or nothing if the law is not prepared to be upgraded, but proposes to the National Assembly not to accept it as an appropriate basis for the continuation of the legislative procedure. At the same time, he promises in a vague and untimely way that she may at some point propose a similar law. There is no doubt that Slovenia, like all Europe, is facing important challenges. Europe notes that it needs to re-evaluate its development strategy in order to be more successful in the global game of existing and emerging economic world powers; and in this context, Slovenia has specific tasks not only because it shows only the first good and bad results of the changed economic system, but also because Slovenia has set itself the goal of achieving the level of the most developed countries of the European Union for at least a decade. In order to achieve this, however, it needs to build on existing solutions. And it is in these days that the government is reporting that these reforms are being undertaken, that it is preparing a balanced concept of reforms, both from an economic and social point of view, which is intended to contribute to the faster development of Slovenia and the well-being of the inhabitants and residents of Slovenia. And it is very worrying that within the framework of all these reforms, which the government claims will be comprehensive and long-term, the government does not include in a world of well-known, established and successful solutions to the participation of workers in profit and labour. It is known that the participation of workers in profit and labour shares strengthens the cohesion between work and capital, also increases the interest of employees in investment, development and business performance, reduces unilateral pressures on labour costs and, with all this, significantly contributes to the greater efficiency of individual companies and economies as a whole. We cannot therefore be considered to be a well-intentioned government which, due to individual comments, opposes the law in its entirety, since it knows that the current solutions in the Company Act and the absence of any tax relief and incentive in tax legislation, except for the exception, have so far not ensured the development and enforcement of workers' participation in profits and labour shares in Slovenia. This only means that the government honestly does not believe that it does not include them in its concept of reforms, that its cooperation and co-existence of work and capital are not the basis for achieving the objectives of economic and social development. It's unacceptable to us. Such behaviour by the government is bad, conservative and long-term harmful. We will only believe something else and only if there is a concrete proposal, not an empty promise. And one more point: the government and the ruling coalition can criticise the opposition many times, that it is unconstructive, that it criticises and devalues all government proposals, that it does not propose anything and is not willing to cooperate with the government. So look how you act. Even when we make proposals that you consider to be rational in principle, you specifically reject them. Not only is that it is not good, but it shows the untruthfulness of your accusations and your duality. So let me tell you that the differences between your words and your actions will be spoiled many more times. For such and similar proposals in favour of Slovenia and its development, the benefits of employees, the benefits of social partnership and the co-existence of work and capital will continue to be invested. In the hope that the government and the ruling coalition will only find, in our persistent activity, that it is worth listening to the opposition's good proposals, but not to reject them at once without serious arguments. So let us be optimistic, believe in reason, do something for the common good! Let us support a proposal for a law that we can correct and supplement in terms of individual solutions, but only in the second and third readings, not if we reject it. He will, of course, receive the full support of our Group of Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u195	Thank you, Mr. Run. Mr Martin Mikolič will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u196	Nicely greeted. Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In the matter under consideration today, according to their explanations, the bill's proponents are seeking to involve workers more actively in creating a more efficient entrepreneurial environment. It is logical that, in addition to any other, direct or indirect incentives, the promotion of different forms of employee participation in profits should have a stimulating effect on the productivity, profitability of the company or ultimately on the higher added value of the product or service. However, in the New Slovenia Group, the Christian People's Party does not see a reason or particular need for a decision on the participation of employees in profits under such a legal framework as the proponents propose, to be made by the legislator. In today's globalisation, a fierce, uncompromising competitive fight on the market can paralyse those Slovenian companies, those companies, either up to 30 or over 30 employees who have top-notch knowledge, top-notch technology and top-notch management. This certainly gives us a sense of where profits are primarily directed. As many healthy, competitive enterprises as we want; so the government, so here we are in the National Assembly, and especially workers, especially because of social well-being. And that is why I repeat: we do not see the need, or we can ask ourselves whether it is appropriate to include the participation of employees in profits here in the law adopted by this National Assembly. Those economic operators living today will find it more difficult to use, but those who keep the Slovenian economy awake, if I may say so, and what is specifically stated in the bill are doing so indirectly. Participation of employees in profits and ownership of employees is currently governed by the Company Act. The Company Act allows for broad possibilities of who participates or who may be involved in the shareholding of the company's profits, of course in accordance with statutory rules, which may vary from company to company. Let us stress that what is most problematic in the proposed law is that tax reliefs are key factors in achieving the objectives of the proposed law. To me, the tax provisions are unclear, in particular in contravention of the Income Act and the Income Tax Act, of the income of legal persons. Certainly, the law proposes excessive enforcement of benefits both on the part of taxable persons receiving relief and on the part of the tax authority. It would be pointless if tax relief were to be provided for by another law rather than tax legislation. The already existing tax system is rather complex and opaque and the purpose of tax reform is precisely to have a simple, simple and, above all, not a contradictory tax system. The aim of tax reform is also to relieve the economy, but we must all be aware together that everything cannot be done overnight. The measures will have to be gradual and one of them has already been announced - a gradual reduction of the tax on paid salaries. In the New Slovenia Group of Members, the Christian People's Party of the Law, as proposed by the proposer, we do not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u197	Thank you, Mr. Mikolitch. Mr Stanislav Brenčič will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u198	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group, we take the intention of proposing a law on the participation of employees in the profits of companies and domestic ownership to try, somehow on the basis of a 1997 proposal for a government law, to upgrade the bill to regulate the system of participation of employees in profits as a positive one. The fact is that, as a foreign society, we need such a law, not because we are European comparable, but because we are reshape and develop a genuine partnership between employees and employers with management or administration. It is illustrative to expect that a poor, solely wage-paid worker will be motivated to make a comprehensive contribution to the success of the company, even in terms of making as much profit as possible. Unfortunately, with us, especially in capital companies, and not in other economic entities, and not least in the public sector, with the modern profile of the creation of the equity structure and management, the morally low rules have prevailed that the right to profit belongs only to those who, in one way or another, derive enormously high profits from the total wage, and those who, indirectly through the supervisory councils, participate in or influence the formation of an entrepreneurial policy, including the distribution of profits or, rather, the right to financial participation in profits. In contrast to this structure, most workers are considered to be simply too expensive and unmobilely employed labour, although they have recently been practically employed only for a certain period of time. This situation, in our firm belief, is not promising for the growth of the company and the increase of its competitive capacity, and this does not apply only to capital companies for which this bill is somehow written, but to all economic organisations and entities, including independent entrepreneurs. Such a situation does not allow for a self-sustaining formation of genuine partnership, which should still be based on the mutual recognition of the right to a fairer sharing of what has been created together, including profit. Therefore, it is imperative that this issue, which is in fact increasingly pushing workers to passivity, be resolved by a good, European comparable law, which can only be drawn up by the government as a project in a given situation. With the involvement of economic and social partners, we are firmly in the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group that it is necessary to attract significantly more strongly into this project the Council of Workers, which is required in advance in terms of labour advocacy, to give a significantly greater effect, initially on the basis of the necessary amendments to the Labour Relations Act. In fact, union centres are becoming, unfortunately, more and more just a declaration of labour representation and, in fact, for the one who is a little more genuinely following this area, it remains, above all, its purpose. Similarly, the Economic Chamber, as a representative of employers, is able to see clearly from the comments of this Chamber on the proposal of this Act. The Slovenian Chamber of Commerce is primarily concerned that the ownership of employees would have an excessive impact on the existing ownership structure and that the financial participation of workers in profit would not have an impact on the increase in labour costs. It follows clearly from this fear that the profits in the company should first significantly increase so that the current profit-sharing beneficiaries remain the same, and only then could the workers participate in it. In any event, the contract for participation in profit should not be based on a proposal for a law establishing two parallel and independent systems of profit participation, in fact with double criteria, given that one type of employee is subject to a collective agreement as a whole, the other, a management structure and administration, without a tariff work. Such an approach does not lead to the motivation of a large majority of employees, since all employees in the company are essentially on the same ship and dependant on each other, success can only be the fruit of all, and therefore the worker is motivated by the most important key to the greater success of the company. It is therefore not possible to take or allocate profits in a genuine partnership in the title of administrations and supervisory councils, unless it is shared with other employees. Unfortunately, these will be motivated by today’s salaries only if part of their profits are spent in money. Because, according to the Ministry of Finance's latest intentions, on the basis of the proposal for amendments to the Income Law for Small Shareholders, there will not be a lot of interest, which, in our opinion, is bad. In the details of the bill's proposal and its composition, the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group does not even want to go into detail at first reading. We believe that the proposal for this law should be further elaborated, but this is a pretty good basis, or if we call it a starting point where, in our firm belief, such a project can prepare and lead and ultimately assume the responsibility of only the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The Slovenian People's Party's Group will therefore not support the bill's proposal, but we expect the government of this project to take full responsibility as soon as possible if it also wants Slovenia to follow the Lisbon Strategy after increasing growth both economically and socially. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u199	Thank you, Mr. Brenčich. Mr Sašo Peče will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u200	Your Honors are here! We welcome the content of the bill within the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, which means that we also support the content of the bill. We believe in positive effects at economic level, both at macro and micro levels, if the law were adopted and if the law were to live in reality or reality. We also believe that the adoption of the law would result in a rise in general satisfaction, resulting from the evaluation of pure work. The fact is that in Slovenia the ratio of capital work today is not reflected in reality, but only through the capital coefficient. According to our assessment, the new elements added to the bill's proposals, i.e. labour stocking, investment in pension insurance, tax reliefs, positive instruments tried by the applicant to legislate. We also believe that, despite the position of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the law could live almost in its full or fullest form and that the proposed solutions supported by many of the institutions from which we received our views would also prove positive. In short, we support the complementary proposal of the law. We believe in the multiple effects of this bill. So, from here, we're applying a raise or thereby showing an increase in microeconomic efficiency, both in relation to consumption, whether it's personal consumption on the one hand and investment consumption on the other. Which, according to our assessment or our belief in a more active government policy, not only employment, but economies in general and in the face of a guiding tax policy could lead to or should lead to synergies at macroeconomic level. In short, we support the law from this title and from the other addresses that I will give below the explanation or presentation of the Group's position. Unfortunately for us, and from this city, i.e. the central speaker of the National Assembly, I must mention that the law itself or the procedure of the law or the existing lifetime of the said law has quite a few negative views which I fear will cause the law to be negatively assessed today in the National Assembly. According to our assessment, the proposaler essentially decided to take a completely wrong approach. For the approach given exclusively to this law, I stress regret and stress exclusively the political colour of the topic. And from this follows, at least that is how we understood within the Slovenian National Party, Member of Parliament and Members' Parliament's parliamentary group that the applicant had put political capital before the content of the said law. Hence, the applicant’s way of doing this law has caused exactly what he tries to deny or correct with content itself. According to our assessment, the proposal was solely for political capital and not for content. This law, however, declares the applicant as one who is for the content of the work and not so much for the content of the capital. This is unacceptable, according to our assessment, because if we look at the procedure of the law itself or of the previous life span, it can show how we came to that conclusion. The basic authorship of the basic law, with approximately the same name, comes from under the pen, or is to come from Minister Bohic. Its basic content and the pace of the event, that is, why the law has waited so long for the parliamentary procedure, as a sequence of events, which indicates the introduction of the law and which confirms the authorship or proposal of the law - all of this binds us in the National Party or leads us to see that unfortunately the purpose of this law was different from that defined in the content. Given that we are speaking today, at least according to our assessment, we should talk about a very important law with a great social note, this can only lead us to a bad conclusion that this can only be part of the game of one of the unserious parties. Nevertheless, we support the proposal of the law in the Slovenian National Party. However, given that I can take advantage and that I have opportunities, I would also like to comment on the position of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on this bill on behalf of the parliamentary group. So according to our assessment, showing - or referring to the response of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia - the binding or presentation of an alternative to the content of this law in the company law is not serious. I would like to point out that all those, i.e. flying to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, showing an alternative or already existing option to one of the proposed solutions in the content of the Economic Society Act, are not serious. In fact, we all know who today has the right to a share of the profits, and we all know that not everyone who tries to regulate the novelties of the law is far from there. We also consider that focusing on sectoral legislation, i.e. as one of the government's arguments why this proposal is weak, is also unrealistic. For the record, allow me just one more sentence. In the National Party, we attach an extraordinary social note to this law, or rather, in the National Party, so it would be a little more serious to deal with the law so far, more serious to be expected by the proponents than by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. And this type of work on both sides is harmful for the Republic of Slovenia. But no matter what happens in the National Party, we support the bill - we support the content of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u201	Thank you, Mr. Pechet. Mr Willi Rezman will present the position of the DeSUS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u202	I will try to present the position of our Group in a very short way, in a kind of line. However, let me say for the introduction that we expected that this law would not receive general support, that there would be a lot of differences in this, and we expected, this has also been confirmed that we are all unanimously supporting the intention, but we are not the best to implement it, this law. We feel that some of the concerns expressed by the government and the Ministry of Finance are quite concrete and must be respected. The proposalr - in short, opposes the law, partly justified for example, at least as regards large exemptions and tax exemptions, and something else, of course. In part, however, the government itself supports, it has written down that the intention to make the sense to support the main guidelines in principle. What is this basic direction now? We believe that one of the dimensions, just a few of them, is the desire for some greater justice in the sharing of newly created value and value in general, and in the context of today's market economy, justice is, in fact, some of the atavism that we are still dealing with, or at least some of them understand it. The intention of workers to identify themselves more closely with the company, with society, is probably the right one, and this law would probably contribute to this. Surely, the interest which is, of course, contradictory between employees and employers, in some way amalgamated, could probably be reduced if such a law were adopted. It would certainly also be possible to expect an increase in productivity, a reduction in costs, a reduction in abstinence, absence of work and more. However, in history, even in our own history, we have already had some such attempts, which unfortunately did not bring very good results to the long term. I stress that it is not possible to fully identify this proposal, which we now have on the table, with some of our past attempts. In a bit of a similarity, however, they point to a similarity in the sense of former social property, an agreed economy and self-management and similar things, which is simply not possible at today's level. [[...]] However, we are even more taught about the last realisation when the crowd of Slovenians and Slovenes have obtained certificates, but of course they are not the right owners and do not decide anything, participate in such things and this experience has not been the most favourable. Modern processes and modern arrangements in more developed countries are unlikely to be easily transferred into our environment. Therefore, some initiatives for a more thorough reflection by the government are probably justified, so those who point out that the law may be under-synergies, so those who point out that the risks are solely on the ownership side and that participation in the profits is, in fact, a bonus without any specific risks, so those who say that there is no direct, real investment in the core assets of a share society and so on. In short, we also feel that it is necessary to be very thorough in this consideration, that excessive rush is not necessary, but we are not among those who reject the law. We will not support the law, we will try if happiness is nice, we will continue to listen to all the arguments, we will look for those modes that are generally acceptable, and we will also ask a question or an initiative, however anyone wants to understand whether it is really necessary for the law to be simply and completely rejected, or whether it is possible to supplement it, to amend it, to bring it into that form, which would also be adopted in this parliamentary discussion. I'm sure it's a good thing things are moving.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u203	Thank you, Mr. Rezman. Mr Ivan Gril will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u204	Dear Mr President, colleagues and colleagues! The Coalition Treaty of the ruling coalition has a clear statement in its text that it will endeavour to establish appropriate legal solutions for the participation of employees in profit and labour. We also support in the Slovenian Democratic Party the ideas of creating and creating the possibility that employees will also be able to participate in profit and labour. However, in the preparation of relevant legislation which will regulate this important area in a comprehensive and systematic manner, it is necessary to follow the fundamental objective of promoting those forms of employee remuneration resulting from the actual positive performance of the business and at the same time to increase savings and investment in development and investment. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we want to follow and take into account the following points in particular when preparing the relevant legislation. The decision on the participation of employees in profit and labour should be based on a voluntary basis both by employers and by employees. We are convinced that the expected objectives can only be achieved in such a way that all social partners are aware of the mutual benefits of such cooperation. Also in other countries where employees are involved in profits and labour-sharing, this is based on a non-binding way, the exception is only France, where this obligation is for all companies with more than 50 employees. The next starting point is that the provisions of such a law should not affect other areas of legislation, as this leads to confusion and impreciseness in other legislation. As we can see, this bill also has a significant impact on another area, particularly tax, which brings additional impossibility and even contradictions to existing tax legislation. For example, this bill is contrary to the applicable law on income and the law on corporate income tax. The next, which we consider to be an essential starting point, is that if such legislation interferes with the area in which all social partners should be involved, we believe in the Slovenian Democratic Party that their opinions and views should be taken into account when preparing this law. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are surprised by this proposal that the drafters of this law did not take into account in the drafting of the law, as we can see from the Magnetogram of 5 February 1998 that Mr Potrč, the then and present Member of Parliament, in considering a proposal of a similar law on the then Health, Labour, Family and Social Affairs Committee, insisted that the law on this subject cannot be dealt with without the attached report on the social agreement reached or the information at which these negotiations are taking place. The proposal of this law, which we are considering today, shows above all that the key objectives of this proposal are mainly tax reliefs, which needlessly reduces the country's revenue for a longer period of time. As we can see, this bill is not supported by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and the text was also critical in the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and the Association of the Council of Workers of Slovenian Enterprises, as we were presented with a number of comments and proposals on this proposal and on 12 or 8 pages. All these comments and proposals prove that the bill that we are considering today is bad, weak, nonconsistent and cannot be corrected in this context even with amendments, so we will not support it in the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u205	Thank you, Mr. Grill. Dr. Matej Lahovnik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u206	Thank you very much, Mr President, honourable Members. In the Group of Members of the Liberal Democracy, we will support this law. We believe that, above all, it is a very good basis for further consideration, but, of course, we are aware that there are certain shortcomings. We are aware that some solutions are not the best, and I am thinking mainly of the obligation of this law, where it is stipulated that it would apply to all companies with at least 30 employees or more. This seems to me in some way to introduce additional stiffness into the Slovenian business system, of course also a shift from the principle of economic freedom and, of course, it is definitely necessary to reconsider and examine whether there is any other way to better address the problem. We also agree, of course, with the concerns, some also with the professional public, that the law does not comply with the existing law on income and the law on the income of legal persons. But, of course, we must not neglect that we are yet in the midst of reform, tax reform, to say the same. In fact, the government will amend the Income Act and the Law on the Income of Legal Persons, and we do not see any problem to take due account of the law that we are considering here today, in such a way that, of course, the company and the employees are tax stimulated to participate, of course, in schemes that enable employees to participate in the generated profits. It must also be pointed out that we agree that in some way the adoption of the law may constitute a departure from the simplicity of the tax system, but forgive me, because at present the government itself does not know what tax system actually advocates. On the one hand, we have Kranjč's model of reducing the number of tax classes and changing some reliefs, on the other hand, we have a system of so-called Mrkojičeva or Damjan's group, which ensures the introduction of units between tax rates, where most of the benefits are actually anticipated; but, of course, I am saying at this point, we do not know what the government actually advocates; we see that it introduces much confusion into the existing tax system in particular. In the Liberal Democracy Club, we do not yet know whether Dr. Bajuk's finance minister is doing this consciously and deliberately or only spontaneously, but we believe, above all, that - of course - the excuse that the law does not comply with the law on the income of legal persons and the law on income does not, of course, endure, because, as I said, things are better coordinated in the context of tax reform. Of course, as regards the positive effects of this law, there is no doubt that the law contributes very favourably to the greater motivation of employees, to increasing productivity in companies, which is also one of the important, if not the most important objectives of the Lisbon Strategy. The fact is, of course, that modern business literature underlines the importance of balanced performance statements, while, of course, profit itself as a goal and financial results is not the only objective of the company; it is also of course important to meet the satisfaction of other suitable participants in the company, among which are just employees; it stresses the importance of knowledge in obtaining competitive advantages; and therefore, of course, we assess that this law on the participation of employees in corporate profits and in domestic ownership can be a suitable basis for more integration of work and capital, that they are also more stimulated by employees to the extent that they are still interested in the company's success. The fact is, as I said, that we are assessing in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, in the LDS Club, that the law is a suitable basis for further consideration, that some concerns can also be weighed down so that they can be debated, that some of the weaknesses of this law can also be addressed and discussed, in particular, properly, but the condition is, of course, that the law, such as that, is supported. And that is why, of course, we will also support this law in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u207	Thank you, Mr. Lakhovnik. We have thus concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Mr. Franz Horvath has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u208	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The participation of employees in profits and in the ownership of companies can undoubtedly be very beneficial for businesses and for the national economy. The case of the United States is particularly relevant in international comparisons, and I have decided, on purpose, to show what my colleague Kontić has already mentioned in the introduction on behalf of the bill-maker. The United States, we know that they have a distinctly, potentially radical market economy, a liberal market economy, but they still have a very high share of employee ownership, even to my surprise. Data: in 1,000 corporations this share is 14.3%. But what is more important - and this speaks of the economic and national economic positive effects of this shareholding, both at the entrepreneurial and national economic level - is that these corporations achieve above average good results in business. 29% of the value of these corporations is on the market and 27% of sales and 20% of all employees are on the market. The data are more than eloquent and convincing and show a highly efficient corporate management of companies with the ownership of employees. And if there is, in America this is certainly not the result of some social democratic doctrine or just some altruism and a love of employees, but it has proved to be economically effective. These data and other examples from European countries confirm a well-known fact of how important it is to motivate employees, both in profit participation and in ownership. They are often employed because their fate is largely linked to the existence and development of these companies, motivated owners, more motivated than various institutional owners, state and parastatal funds, which often also speculatively mix and shift billions from pocket to pocket, trade shares, instead of focusing capital, such as US companies, on technology development, marketing and the like. Last night on TVS 1 was an interesting broadcast on this topic, where it was just an example of how owners, say, operate capital in America. We have many cases where the owners of the company or the funds are largely part of the profits, not for the development of the company or the activity, but for the purchase of other companies and for various other purposes. It is very important that the participation of employees in ownership leads to a more diversified ownership structure, which often has very positive impacts. This is often a good tool against restricting competition and creating monopolies. Let me give you an example, if a small number of, say, manufacturing companies buy large shares or large shares in a trading company, it's understandable that - you don't want to - they'll create a better position and put another competing manufacturing company in a worse position. Shares of ownership employees may also be an obstacle to speculative acquisitions, which may often be bad for businesses or for the whole region or for the national economy. In doing so, I would say that not all domestic acquisitions are friendly and not all foreign acquisitions are hateful, as is often thought or spoken. We have had high shareholdings on the basis of certificates, and up to 50% in individual companies, since, unfortunately, employees later sold these shares because they were obviously not motivated enough to hold or more, because they had either low wages and needed money for current consumption or for other reasons. A greater share of employee ownership and diversified ownership would also have a restrictive impact on the impact of policy on businesses through para-national funds and in other ways. There would also be fewer cross-links and impacts of a small number of companies, funds, elites and individuals. The reduction of employee shares would certainly lead, as has already been mentioned today, to the smoothing of conflicts or conflicts between capital and work, which can often be very damaging; on the contrary, it would create, as well as the government, in its opinion, a synergy between work and capital. In the world and in particular in the most successful countries, including in Europe, human capital is becoming increasingly important. This is particularly significant, not only for the largest countries, but for the smaller countries that are eager and should follow them even more closely, the so-called States of consensus, in particular the Nordic countries, Ireland and other countries. Given the smallness of the Slovenian economy to its openness and given the limited natural and other resources, such a model is even more important for Slovenia to exploit the human resources, knowledge, advantage and even motivation and other potentials that our people have. Let me conclude with the government's opinion, this is quite interesting, but also quite contradictory. First, he cheered up the first sentence, which says that he is giving a positive assessment of the meaning of this law for a more efficient entrepreneurial environment. That's exactly the purpose of the law! However, then a number of concrete comments are given below, which is also fine, and it would make sense to hold a debate as in other comments made so far in the public debate and also here today, but these comments do not seem to me to be such or not a reason to reject the law completely. In a large part of its opinion, the government refers to the company law, which allows workers to participate in profits; but, dear colleagues, what helps us with such a provision in the law, if in practice often or not at all. This is said to be a dead letter on paper, obviously missing a little more, missing some stimulation and something else proposed by this law to make things work. Now it is a dilemma, which is better, or what the government is concluding, and also some colleagues in the debate so far, that the law is simply refused, that there is no further consideration and improvement of the law and that "status quo" remains; it is said that nothing will happen in this area. I think it's the worst, the world's moving on, and we're going to stand or cry for the developed world again. I think that it would be much better, more constructive and that we should not go primarily along the line now prestige, who proposes the law, but that we would actually congregate the kind and the intelligence we have and the good will, and this is also true for the government to be actively involved in the further preparation of the law for second reading and it is possible to implement these comments to a large extent, because, as a first-signed colleague of Kontiè in his introduction, I have shown a great deal of flexibility to accept comments and also to take note of the comments and I myself as a signatory to such an opinion. So I propose that we support the law and follow the path of improving it and that we get to a good marriage as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u209	Thank you, Mr. Horvath. Mr. Aloys Sok has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u210	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Fellow Members and Members. We are dealing with a rather important issue, that is, how to regulate the co-ownership of employees. And when I listen like this, I have to say that in fact, in one of the countries we lived in, we had this co-ownership once, because we were all owners of everything, it was all ours. Then there were some changes. I got it myself, if I remember correctly, some certificate, and some letter Dr. Drnovšek was also attached, and then I put that certificate in some so-called pid, and today I don't even know if this pid - or what it's all been transformed into - is where it exists or what it is. I've never asked myself that. I know they keep me informed of a change every once in a while. I don't know who's following this, but in this way, over a million Slovenes and Slovenians have lost everything. At that time, of course, some became, as we could hear, small shareholders with billions in these stocks. And today you're proposing a very complex marriage to us and we're listening to a comparison here with America. You know, comparing our situation to the American situation is, to say the least, pointless. In America, they have a different social policy, they have a different education, if you want America, they have American health care, American justice, the American way of handling military matters, not to mention. Thus, to compare Slovenia and to put "a propos" America, that is - we could not even put us on the other side, I do not know what developed European countries or Germany in my own way. However, I am not an economist so that I could, for example, speak so highly of this as my fellow Member, Ferri Horvat. Otherwise, of course, co-ownership of employees as an enterprise ownership structure is an extremely good thing. For financial participation is certainly an incentive for employees to improve the performance of businesses and to invest more in the development of the company itself. And if anything, I'd want something like that myself. However, the placement of such a law in our regime would entail a lot of things, and I am particularly convinced that there is a fundamental change in social policy. For there is a need to have a broader debate on this issue, and if, at the moment, what does this Commission do with the government dealing with these issues - Dr. Lahovnik has talked about it - then this is actually it; they are talking about some new development strategy, some guidelines. And it is not unusual to talk about the single tax rate mentioned here today in this concept. But it has been said that the government does not know the direction and that it does not really know what tax reform the government is advocating. I think the media has already published this and that all tax laws [[I think there's five of them.]] published that they are accessible to everyone on the Internet and that this is actually a government tax reform project. To say here that the government does not know that these laws have been published is, to put it mildly, misleading. However, if there is another debate in our public at the same time, it is only to say hello, I do not know why it would be negative. Debates are always good, and if we finally pull something out of this in some consensus, it will only have a positive effect. I would not want some things to be taken up in this national assembly so quickly without much discussion and discussion. And the single tax rate is one of these matters. After all, it was also spoken of in Germany before the elections and there is no reason not to talk about it with us. At the moment the reality is as I described it and as with these tax laws it has been placed in the Slovenian public. And if, I don't know, we read in the media what the impossible consequences are on the stock market themselves because of these laws and so on, then I believe that Dr. Lakhovnik also knows these bills, which I can say in advance are only positive, so he knows them, and that it is purely misleading to say here that the government does not know the direction to which we should go and so on. The fundamental question is whether it is at this point the right time to engage in such a law in such a way as to provide for such great relief and tax exemptions. This is, of course, very possible to write into some law, to discuss it, to be one part of the public likes, but the fundamental question is what would be the consequences of something so rigorously adopted, some such major changes as are recorded here, had to do with what we all committed ourselves to, both position and opposition, and this is taking over the euro as the common currency payment currency with 1.1.2007. I think that until this time there is no opportunity and there is no need for us to decide on such important content, we can debate, every debate is appropriate and I believe that it is also well-intentioned, but that we would accept this as an appropriate content-after all, even the Employees' Property Association, which advocates these solutions, has on such a prepared law a number of comments, and also, in some way, express the concerns that they have not been invited to participate in such an important law and in some sense of such a concept of this law as it is before us, do not support. Likewise, in New Slovenia, the Christian-Human Party will not support this content, we will advocate that the government prepare a more appropriate proposal, which will in particular build on what is currently a social policy in the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u211	Thank you, Mr. Sok. Mr. Brenčič has the floor. He's quitting. Then Mr. Žnidaršič has the floor. He's quitting. Mr. Kangler is gone. Mr. Han, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u212	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! The proposal for a law on the participation of employees in the company's profits and the ownership of employees, which we have submitted to Parliament by the Social Democrats with the first-signed Bojan Kontic, is good for my ideas and I personally support it. I am sure that this law makes some progress in the economic sense. However, I hope to predict that if this law comes into life, it will also bring about greater economic growth in the long run. We all know that economic growth is one of the main foundations for the well-being of all of us citizens and citizens. But I understand that even if you want to share something in life, you have to create something first. And this marriage is a good basis for this claim from a number of perspectives, even from personal experience. Social Democrats are the political force that advocates, among other things, the well-being of the people, and in this context it is primarily the interests of workers. When we talk about companies, about greater added value in capital, we see first the employees and their needs. I am convinced that workers or employees are the largest capital in companies that create new added value through their work. And this law, which is before us today, brings the most to the workers, and if you will, it is for them, for with it the workers gain the most. But, of course, the owners of businesses, capital owners and ultimately, I believe they will also gain the country. I think of the long-term effects here in the first place. This is not what I am saying. This is also shown by the experience and comparisons of the law from other European countries and world countries that already have similar solutions. And that's what my colleague, Bojan and Mr. Ferry have talked about before me. There are many good and positive solutions to this marriage. I am aware, however, that the law also has a flaw, and in Social Democracy we are prepared to listen and incorporate into the law the welfare of all interested parties. I would point out one of the key solutions in the law, which builds up the law and gives it a special weight, these are tax reliefs. We came to these conclusions when we introduced the law in the field, and I can say that the law would be adopted positively and with approval, both of unions, of individual workers and of the professional public. Finally, I would like to say that I was meant to be more general, because the bill's proponent was much said and justified. The law is good, well-intentioned and has a bunch of good solutions. But I'm afraid he's got a lot of flaws, and that's because he's not proposed by the ruling coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u213	Thank you, Mr. Han. Mr. Friend has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u214	Thank you very much, Mr. President. As the law before us has already been said, it is extremely social and it would be appropriate to take it as well, since the EU's 1992 recommendations 92/443 speak so. This recommendation and labour equity is also positive for a wider society, because it actually makes it possible to make workers more efficient in the company, it also provides greater loyalty to the company, it also enables a real higher level of creating new added value and, most importantly, for our society, which does not have a very high level of employment, it also makes it possible to increase the social level and create new jobs. The government's assessment of all proposed laws coming from opposition types up to today is roughly the same: the laws the opposition is making are not consistent, they are not in accordance with all the legal standards, that they are not good and that they need to be supplemented. Then it happens that, in fact, within a period of time, exactly that kind of matter comes into the parliamentary bench. I think that we Members in the National Assembly should be judgmental, especially when it comes to the rights of citizens and citizens, and given that purchasing power in the Republic of Slovenia is falling and that the social level of citizens and citizens is lower, it is all the more to listen to this marriage, which, of course, can be incomplete and complementary. It is also realistic to assess this and it is positive to assess what Article 20 provides that the company can use the assets of participation in profit during the period of peace of rights exclusively for investment and purchase or adaptation of business premises or for company development projects, for investments in financial infrastructure and, in essence, for the development of the company. I think that this law is worth deep thought before us and that it is not just to be thrown into a basket of voting, because it will also allow greater social peace, and not least, if we think that we cannot build social peace within the country only on a system of complexity, but we must drive some system of giving-dam - so, as far as we give, we will be able to get as much as we know it in the West. Large, large, truly large corporations simply operate in a way that divides profits and that productivity also increases by essentially promising profit sharing in increased performance. I'm hiring, of course. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u215	Thank you. Member Joseph Horvat has been reported. He's not here. I'd like to take the floor with my colleague, Happy Hwauc.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u216	Thank you, Mr Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The participation of employees in corporate profits is nothing new, it is a tested model that has shown many positive effects in many European and other developed countries. It is that employees feel a sense of belonging, loyalty, that they feel that they are doing something useful; in short, that they are contributing to the good business of society. From this point of view, it also shows that the company’s capital is not only capital in its basic form, but is actually the largest capital of the company employed with its knowledge and abilities, with its contribution, with its wishes and, of course, it cannot be ignored. However, despite a little later in the hour or afternoon, I would say hello: "Good morning," to some who were here or who were in this hall their own time. I am thinking about colleagues or the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia and the current Social Democrats, who apparently woke up after seven years of sleep because they had already introduced a similar law in 1997, and in these seven years they simply failed to bring it to reception. If it were true what the proponents had heard that the government which assessed this bill was two-faced, conservative, that its behaviour was harmful in the long run, etc., then forgive me if I could also draw any comparison with one previous government that did not complete this process, or a parliament that did not finally adopt this law. In the meantime, of course, there are some members of the boards, supervisory councils, etc. abounded in some fruits, sometimes also, under the terms "positive business or profit", not only in companies, but also in some public institutions, etc. Some members have become such or otherwise important shareholders, and their shares can now be measured into some hundreds of millions or perhaps even billions or more. Now, if I'm going to comment on this marriage. The first thing that bothers me is that a mix of powers, I'm going to count my comments, but not according to priority, but in some order. For the first time, a mix of powers between the workers' council and trade unions. We currently have a clear system in Slovenia that limits the powers of trade unions and the powers of the workers' world, we have a law on the participation of workers in the management of companies that clearly speaks about the powers of the workers' world. Here, to a certain extent, a representative union decides on the contract; otherwise, there are some other third variants, and I think that such arrangements would in fact lead to some confusion in this area. Secondly, as regards the scope of tax relief. I agree with the Government's conclusion that we simply cannot afford to deal with certain tax issues, tax reliefs, in some individual areas or in any special legislation, because we simply get into a situation where the whole system is broken. I agree that this needs to be regulated by system law. Such an approach is like, I don't know, building a house on the roof. I agree that if you are already suggesting that workers do not participate in profits, that they also participate in other positive results related to, I don't know, cost reductions, quality increases, productivity and so on. It would also be necessary to take into account the fact that only those who were actually active during this period are said to be in the workplace, and have worked, not those who were, I don't know, in the hospital, maternity, parental leave and so on. I also see the problem because certain groups of employees are simply excluded from this process. What about employees of independent entrepreneurs who otherwise show profits what is happening with non-economic organisations and so on. It also bothers me that the law does not remove some different criteria for management, administration, directors and, on the other hand, employees. From what I've outlined, I don't think that what I've said is that marriage needs some minor corrections, some upgrades, but that it's actually a law that has a good purpose and too much change is needed in its content, so I don't think it's appropriate for further consideration. As for the promise of the current government and the obligations in the coalition treaty, I am sure that this government will fulfil these obligations and that such a law, which will hold water in all areas, will be prepared safely before seven years and will certainly be done in this mandate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u217	Thank you. I call on Ambassador Dusan Kumra to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u218	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues! The first reaction to what has been said now is that I am also one of the cosigners. By co-signing this bill, I had no intention of harming Slovenia and I hope that I do not harm Slovenia. Even less was my intention to harm the workers. So if some have talked about the political orientation of this law, not the substantive one, I would like to say that I did not have that purpose, and I will not have it in the future. Syntagma is not the right time, it means never. This has always proved to be, and it always will be. When you abuse this syntagma, it's not the right time, then of course you never intend to do it. Some of you have also had a bit of nostalgia in your opening remarks after self-governance socialism, which you have read to the applicants, but on two occasions I will show you that you have yourself caught up in this loop. When you talk about justice and solidarity, it's called something else today - so-called equalisation schemes today are solidarity, justice. You have them in the area of health, you've seen the last case in the field of notariat and so on. This is about former solidarity or justice, which was in force in self-government socialism. Even more so is this law on RTV that we passed last week. The election of the world of RTV is a typical example of how it was staffed in self-governance socialism. Phase one, self-governance pluralism, everyone can propose. In the second stage of democratic centralism, most of them, of course, decide who it is. So much for teaching because even here you had written for a payphone that the applicants had nostalgia after self-governance socialism. Finally, nobody else but the government is capable of writing a European comparable law. On the contrary, we have had a 'eclatant' case of how the government writes a European comparable law with the help of firms in difficulty. That's how I think this evaluation doesn't apply. Now specifically to the law. The experience of countries that encourage the different participation of employees in profits shows that it has much more positive effects than the negative ones that some of you have talked about today. It is simply an effective and simple formula for linking the interests of capital and the interests of work or for achieving the best possible development in employees, the perspectives of the company and also profits. Therefore, the establishment, I underline, of a legal system of participation in profit has, in the first place, the motivation of employees for the development of the company and the perspective of the company. That's why it has 40%, and here are those who have been sceptics in the European Corporations of the labour shareholders' programmes, 40% of the corporations in Europe. And 30% of corporations have employee participation programmes on profits, and this is a system-wide legal solution, not dispersed in various legal solutions. They are at the forefront of Germany and France in Europe. I hear many times in this Chamber a comparison of the comparative advantages of these two countries. Let us imitate these two countries in this law as well. So not all those capital holders in these countries, which I mentioned, who had long since established the system of employee participations on profit, did so because of something already said by my colleague Horvat, ultraism towards workers, but mainly because of the increase in profits and motivation in this game, of course they also pulled workers and motivated them. That's why I'd like to mention another one here. To do so, of course, one must be established to call it a capable economic, healthy economic environment. And this is where the state comes in. Without any tax relief, if this project is to be implemented, of course it is not possible to carry out this project systematically. But here I put on a scale of 10 to 15 billion that the state would lose in the budget and the effects on the motivation of workers and the final network of companies and the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy in this globalisation game in Europe and the world. What's greater, the value on which side this scale will be checked. Last but not least, we have been listening for the last two months and now we will be hearing intensively about the development reform project in Slovenia for the next two months. I ask you whether and whether the reforms will be carried out by ministers sitting in government, government meetings, whether these reforms will be carried out by people, the active population, in their jobs or in these working environments. And this proposal for a law is nothing more than a snag that people are actively involved in the realisation and implementation of these reforms that the government promises so much and with which it will come. 20 people in the government, 110 people in the reform committee, of course, cannot carry out these reforms. But they can be carried out by 600,000 employees in Slovenia. Therefore, once again, I will not abuse this word, please, but for an additional 5 minutes to consider the ruling coalition's parties to allow with many amendments and additions that in the future we can make this law truly European comparable. Think about it, now is the time, because these reforms are being prepared. And now's the time. If we don't use it now, we'll never use it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u219	Thank you. To the word of Dr. Lakhovnik. He's not in the hall. The word is from Ambassador Breda Pecan.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u220	Thank you for your word. I believe that the discussions that we have heard so far by members of the government coalition have been expected. There is nothing out of the ordinary, as colleague Han said that this law is not, in particular, good for the government and the government coalition because it has not been filed by the right party or because it has not been filed by the government. The Coalition Treaty states that the coalition will ensure that the right of workers to share profits will also be exercised. I hope that you will keep your word and that you will use the possibility that once you change with the opposition parties you will form such a law that will be good for all Slovenes and Slovenians, not just for government parties. When we talk about the law itself and the reasons for the law, I think that the comparison with the 1997 law is, of course, in place. Because at the time it was in the early beginnings of thinking about when it was, I hope to say even a little bit unusual, or even instead of "sougonostalgic" we could refer to the proponents or those who would like to cut into this subject more intensely or more deeply, as we have now done with this law, it would probably be with the nostalgics of the self-government system, where we were all the owners of everything, but the difference is obvious. When we talk about social property, which is not necessarily about self-governance, social property and labour equity are certainly not the same thing. Not because the labour stock market has been set up and very highly developed and expanded in the United States of America as very important and could be said to be a model capitalist country that promotes neoliberalism as the only true ideology would be capitalism. But also because this labour stock is extremely widespread and allows what is the essence of things in a society that currently gives the greatest importance to capital, capital without the work of workers certainly cannot generate profits. It is said that it is certainly fair and fair for profit to be shared between capital owners and those who have allowed this capital to grow, we will say, in a way reproduce. And what has come new is right to divide between each other, between employers who own capital, and workers who have enriched capital with their work. If we move on. This has nothing to do with the salaries of these workers. The salaries of workers belong to employees such as collective agreements, branch contracts and so on. Profit is something that's out of pay. So it's a pay-as-you-go. But not because it would increase the salary, but because the worker is entitled to his share of the profits made. And if they manage to agree to invest this profit in the shares of the company, then the employee in the same person becomes the owner of the capital and the one who has this capital. For this reason, I think it is worth talking about the fact that, because of our political interests, we have tabled this law, completely depressed and, of course, worthy of what he has said today. If we were to talk about it being ideological, it would be declassified again. Why? Because it has nothing to do with ideology. This is only about the fair distribution of created social profits created in a society, not in an economic society, but in a society in general. It is a little more difficult, though, to think about the fact that we should also talk about the sharing of profits in the social sphere, not just in the economic sphere. But it's probably time to think in the next steps. If you had at least looked at or flown the leaves that spoke in the explanation of the law about individual countries, you could see that the genetics of the labour stock and the participation of employees in the profit of a good 45 years in France. And it is likely that they have come to the conclusion that companies with more than 50 employees have committed themselves to share profits between workers and employers. It wasn't just that, but because they thought it was fair, and because some socialist government accidentally introduced it, because in 1954 there was no socialist government in France, if you might remember something about history and who was in power at the time. It is said that when we look around again and again, especially in the European Union, we need to think about some things that we do not like most in the United States, because they are getting much better there. And when we talk about exempting income tax and income for divided profits or for purchased shares, not even talking about those shares that the worker will sell when he goes to retirement to buy a share in the pension fund, of course these are things that for my concepts and I think that for the notion of anyone who honestly thinks that it is necessary to finally give our workers some long-term security that they can create themselves, where they do not have to wait for help from the employment agency for example. That this security is when they impose what else they could spend, in fact to force them in some way because they are exempt from income tax from this sale. If money is invested in a pension fund, then it means that in fact, in some indirect way, we have directed the worker to take care of his or her safety in the long term. And with this he also made room for a new worker who will be able to participate in the share of profits and in the internal ownership of the company that he is leaving. Let us think a little sometimes, although perhaps as legislators we do not need to think about individuals, but they do think about individuals, their neighbors. Many of them, however, can work in successful companies that generate profits and cash this profit, collect, pocket only capital owners. Workers have absolutely nothing to gain from this profit except maybe 13th salary if they get it at all. And for this reason, I think it would be right that, despite the fact that we have heard that there is a whole series of comments, it is right that there is a whole series of comments. All those who have made comments that believe that the law needs to be corrected means that they feel that it is worth correcting the law, that they feel that this law is also acceptable, but that it is prepared to be as good as possible. And I want you to take a deep look at it and see what advantages it brings to our neighbors, if not to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u221	Thank you. Anton Kokalj has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u222	Thank you, Mr. President. Especially for the proper use of my name, we'll learn. I'd start where Mrs. Pechanov ended up. In fact, let's think about reading the law, etc. I myself must say that, as a policy, if I consider the whole context in which the law is proposed, including the content of it, of course, it is also very important who proposes it. We are politicians, and we need to know that some product is judged even after who sells it, based on the experience you have about it, sold from before. And here we are faced with the situation of selling a product under the title of righteousness, etc. Our collegiate right after being alone for decades in the government and would have an endless opportunity to apply what is now in the law or the bill. However, if I recall just one example, which was otherwise said to be not comparable to what the law offers, what happened to the certificates. It is not the same if the concept of thinking at that time were likely to prevent a multitude of those who were justified to some capital from losing their capital after everything that was going on. This is the first thing I would say, and I must say that I am very careful when some law proposes to the Social Democrats, given that I think it is very important to say 'after their fruits you will recognize them'. So I went into different opinions and opinions. For the first time, a government that notes that this proposal cannot be supported in its existing form because a number of provisions are inconsistent with other legislation. That's what I think is very important. After that, it is also very important for the professional public to be involved in the debate, and I will quote only one opinion. On 18 May, Janez Prašnikar of the Faculty of Economics in Finance stated that profit shearing was useful because it encouraged employees to become more productive. Of course, it is good that the system promotes deferral schemes. So, that employees [[..]] [[Incomprehensible.]] They do not receive the prizes of profit at their expense immediately, but in five years, for example. [[...]] More importantly, however, in this expert opinion, I do not see any positive effects now if such a law were adopted: it could be macroeconomicly harmful, it could cause undesirable inflation effects, warns Prašnikar and explains that the government should take care of the urgent abolition of the tax on the payment sheet first. Therefore, the time in which the law is put forward is also very important, of course it is important and if the government currently assesses, and if the profession also assesses that such a law could have an impact on the fiscal conditions under which we will join the EU, it is necessary to be careful. Managers have also discussed such an approach and, in most cases, they believe that we do not need the law, but only need to adapt the law on income and some other laws, which could now be taken into account by this Kranjč expert group on tax reform. However, as regards the reference to France, it should be pointed out that the regulation proposed by the current law, or the regulation of the area proposed by the law, is voluntary everywhere in the European Union, except in France, the participation of employees on profits is compulsory in all companies with more than 50 employees. Therefore, I must say that France is not the most appropriate criterion to which you refer. I would also like to stop at the comments of the Association for the Ownership of Employees on this proposal of the law. These comments are huge and, on the basis of some comments that I think are crucial and point out that the law is very weak, I must say that I cannot define myself for this proposal right now. For instance. "I warn you that the law is intended in principle only for shareholders. The first observation, participation in the profits and shareholding of employees, should also be voluntary and optional for companies with more than 30 employees. The law must not act as a compulsion, but as an option and an incentive. According to the proposal, it is not possible to make payments for participation in a profit or part of the salary in the form of shares of the parent company employed in the subsidiaries. The bill does not contain an adequate legal basis for the authorising officer and does not mention that employees can invest their money in their own company. This is just a few arguments that I have come from, as I have said, those involved in this matter, the United Kingdom's employees' ownership, the professional public and the government's opinions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u223	Thank you. Member Willie Rezman has the floor. He's not in the hall. Member Drago Koren has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u224	Dear colleagues and colleagues! My predecessor, Tone, is most of the things I was going to say, I just said, so I'm not going to repeat myself, so I'm going to be very short, and we don't have much time. I have to say, when I read the law, the first impression was very good, and I also believe that the law was well-intentioned. As you yourself have already determined, the current government coalition has written this matter in its programme. And I'm sure the government will see to it that this program it has set itself will also be implemented. However, in order to have the proposed law, you have heard today that there are some shortcomings and these shortcomings are urgently needed to be addressed. Given that it interferes with the spheres that should be regulated by another law, I believe it is better to take over what the government has proposed, it is said that this law is rejected and that we wait for the government to draw up its own law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u225	Thank you. I would like to take the floor with you, Ambassador Janko Vebra.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u226	Thank you for your word. The relationship between the coalition and the laws that actually relate to people who often have nothing with politics, except that, of course, if they succeed, they go to elections and give their vote. And it is interesting how far away these people are today when it is necessary to discuss how they can participate in the performance of societies and, of course, in creating economic development, in particular competitiveness and not least, in the European market as well as in the global market. And also these comparisons with the certificates that have been given are not really correct and also instigating, if I may say so, because you were in the government. However, I would like to remind you that the SKD was significantly more and further in government than the Social Democrats. And we are also convinced that certificates would be significantly more valuable if Social Democrats were in government when they were Christian Democrats. So this attitude toward work really worries us. It is that we can, however, allow someone to decide whether to join the cash scheme and receive concrete money from the profits and try to solve some of their problems that workers certainly have in their daily lives. However, if, of course, they opt for a share scheme, they decide to actively cooperate and manage society, and that is what we certainly miss in the last period. It is the concentration of capital in two, three, four, five individuals and, of course, it is not good for the further development of Slovenia. And I also do not imagine the development of Slovenia in the way that two or three or four decide what will be in Slovenia and what will not be and where will not be. Surely we all deserve to try to create this development. And Parliament is certainly one of those appropriate forms when we try to exercise as much interest in our society as possible. And the broadest possible interest of this company is for sure that companies are successful, that they are competitive and that, of course, everyone is doing their best to help us succeed in this extremely severe fight when we face competitiveness and jobs in particular. Maintaining jobs is one of the priority issues and must be one of the priority issues and if you are involved and are creating a company's policy, there is certainly much more stability, much more security and creativity for each individual than if you depend on someone else who can put you on the road tomorrow. And we would really expect a much more constructive debate from the right, precisely because of this attitude towards employees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u227	Thank you. Member Ivan Yelen has the floor. He's not in the hall. Only Bevk has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u228	Thank you for your word, Mr Vice President, the House of Respect. By law, we want to better regulate the right of employees to participate, to the share of the profits generated in the company. In addition, we want to introduce labour stock in Slovenia. Regrettably, the government coalition has negatively defined the bill's proposal, although even in the coalition contract it has stated that it advocates a greater role for employees in companies. However, the Government's view is explicitly stated that it supports the "wario legis" of the laws on the participation of employees in the company's profits and ownership of employees, and considers that such a law could make an important contribution to the creation of a more efficient business environment in which workers can be actively involved or involved in a slightly modified role. However, the government cannot support the proposal in its existing form, because, and three dots, I will not say and so on. In my opinion, the government's conduct is confused with common sense. Instead of offering a hand of cooperation, she gave some polite phrases at the beginning, and with the second hand she was supposed to slap us, the bill's proponents, and in fact hurt all those employees who live exclusively or mainly from their work. Participation in profit is the general name for the programmes under which the share of profits involves employees in the share-shared company. In the division of profits, therefore, not only the owners and shareholders who contributed capital, but also the employees in the company, are involved on the basis of their work. The remuneration of the profits shall be paid additionally by the employees as a moving part of their income directly linked to the profits obtained by the company or to other measured business results. Labour stocking is an indirect form of financial participation of employees in the entrepreneurial result. Within the framework of the labour shareholding, the remuneration of the employees shall be effected through their ownership of a part of the company's capital, by paying dividends or by increasing their capital or equity. The most widespread type of remuneration through labour-sharing takes place through its own shares of companies which it acquires for this purpose and which are awarded to employees free of charge or under more favourable conditions. Experience from countries that develop and promote different forms of employee participation in profits shows that this clearly has positive effects on the higher productivity and profitability of companies, as well as on the greater flexibility of wage policy in companies, the less frequent and less fluctuation in employment and higher and more stable employment growth. The Council of the European Union has also set itself the objective of encouraging the Member States of the European Union to make greater use of the participation of employees in profits and entrepreneurial results. I will not mention the information already provided by the applicant, the first-signed bill-maker, Bojan Kontič, as regulated in France, Great Britain and other European Union countries or in the United States of America. I can only say that the new law would improve the position of employees and their participation in companies, thus achieving that workers will not only be cost-effective but are the key capital of businesses. It would increase the motivation of employees to achieve better results and increase the membership of employees and vice versa. In addition, it would increase the interest of people to invest instead of spending and achieve long-term pension and social security for employees. However, with better quality, we would increase the added value and competitiveness of the Slovenian economy. Your Honor! Such a law is difficult to oppose. In my opinion, it should also be supported by the ruling coalition, although there is little possibility for this, as it has so far supported only my asbestos law and the law of Collegiate Breda Pecanova, and has rejected all other opposition laws smoothly. That is why I am not surprised by the discussion of coalition MPs or, above all, more Members today. Of course, you have time to change your mind before the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u229	Thank you. Member Joseph Jerovšek has the floor. [[He's not in the hall.]] There's a MEP with a word. Squeak.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u230	Mr Vice President, Members and Members of Parliament! First of all, I would like to say that I regret today's discussion. This is a discussion of "ad personnel", not a discussion of the law. Nobody talks about the content of the law except the proponents. We may have heard everything, but we have not heard the key one, whether this law would be the right answer to the current economic problems in Slovenia. Above all, we have heard a lot from members of the ruling coalition about the problems that have arisen in the past 14, 15 years of transition. We have even heard the argument that there is a clear direction of the government, a new government, as I call it, with regard to tax laws. But I don't know what that's like. I can only imagine, from what has been posted on the Internet and from what the Prime Minister spoke to the real government yesterday - the right government of the Republic of Slovenia is a reform committee. So, I'm sorry, I don't know what the purpose of this discussion is. If the purpose of this discussion today by the ruling coalition is, in particular, to substantiate in some way the government's opinion that we have received, then I regret that you are doing so, because this is the government's opinion that is at least incompatible with what you wrote in the coalition agreement or with what some economists are defending. I therefore regret this discussion and should at least contribute to the content of this discussion. It is worth asking why this law was tabled in 1997. This law was introduced in 1997 because we had some problems at the time of entry into the European Union. On the one hand, with inflationary pressures, these inflationary pressures were mainly influenced by the cost pressure associated with relatively high wage growth, in addition to external factors. In fact, the law was, as part of the social bargaining process, an offer to the social partners to reduce, in fact, the pressure on wages through a deferred share of profits. In the debates held in the Slovenian institutions that ended in the state council, the partners of this economic social dialogue, the unions, rejected this proposal. That is why this proposal was simply stopped in the procedure by the then Drnovška government. Then, as you know, we entered the last years of EU accession and finally entered the EU. Some other exceptional moves have affected us to enter this EU relatively peacefully, or, I will say, with good macroeconomic relations. And in this, one of the key factors was, if you want, the whole package of economic policy measures from 2003 to 2004, which included an agreement on wage policy at all levels, and which included a very important, so-critified, tax reform, which, through the amendment of the Income Law, unloaded the lowest layers and immediately allowed them, not only through the delayed division of profits or otherwise, increased net revenue. In 2005, the average wage rises by about €800, according to 2004. Of this, €400 is due to the impact of income reductions and €400 due to the "escalation" agreed in wage policy. These were government policy responses to the challenges every time. In 1997 the attempt of this law, which has been rejected, has, of course, been an agreement and dialogue between the economic social partners in recent years. Now, colleagues from the only Social Democratic Party in Slovenia, as I said yesterday, and I will repeat today, I believe that we have very many Republican parties here, of course, proposing a law to complement it properly, could be an important basis for us to accelerate the competitiveness of the economy in Slovenia in the coming years. This means that, through either the participation of profits, through the participation of employees, through their cooperation in management, we are solving to a greater extent the problems of the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy. The government coalition is rejecting it. And this government coalition rejects on the same days as the Ministry of Finance, and I assume that the government will accept this, has proposed a special tax relief in the Income Act. It proposed a tax relief that the richest in Slovenia who received the Slovenian Compensation Company bonds through denationalisation, which you received mainly by the parties in this National Assembly, in narration, today's ruling coalition, former Demos, would be exempt from tax. At the same time, in the same Income Act, this same ruling coalition, I do not know whether the Minister of Finance is still part of this coalition or not, but he proposed this, of course, proposes tax changes, especially retroactivity of taxation of mutual funds after a period of less than three years, which causes serious tailoring on the Slovenian stock exchange. The Slovenian stock exchange is a shallow stock exchange and therefore every finance minister should be aware of what it means to send a law on the Internet on Friday afternoon, which on Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday breaks the stock exchange, and the only answer is one. What do I want to tell you, colleagues, colleagues from the ruling coalition? On the one hand, you reject the law without talking about its contents, because it was proposed by the Social Democrats, and you mix it up precisely why this law was proposed once while defending the government. Someone read earlier that this government already knows what it's doing. This government will, however, implement a new strategy for the development of Slovenia. Let me go by - let me say that this strategy for the development of Slovenia has been prepared by another, because it does not matter what this government was called, but is prepared by Slovenian Economic Science. And this Slovenian Economic Science knows what the answers are, and among these are Esop and similar. Mr Vahčič, who is the leader of the group, is a well-known advocate or, if you like, also a theorist of these issues and has worked hard on this. [[...]] By proposing that, if there is still a will to discuss the content of the law, we do not discuss who proposed the law and that it should be against this law, because it is proposed by the Social Democrats. True social democracy, as well as true conservative parties, could propose such laws. It is true, however, that these conservative parties or Republican parties could also share such large tax exemptions with certain special groups in Slovenia, in this case the richest in the latter case. The situation ahead of us in Slovenia is that we have an obvious government that is not a government and we have a reform committee that is still thinking about what it will do, and will then present it to the government. And the government, as I have just made a statement, will, somewhere in the third year of its mandate, somewhere in the second half of 2007, or perhaps even in 2008, only start implementing its own reforms. In place, however, it is not bad to adopt a law that is ready, even though it is ready to be completed in 1997 and included in the reform process, especially if you have entered it into a coalition contract. Otherwise, your coalition contract is as valuable as the paper on which it was written. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u231	Thank you, Ambassador Squeakle. Thank you in particular for sticking to the topic of the bill and following your own instructions to others. But to my word, I invite Member Martin Mikolić.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u232	Thank you very much. Given that I have very little time, I would like to emphasise what somehow the proposer is explaining between the effects that the law should have a positive impact on the pension fund. And tell me, given that the workers will be involved in the profits, it is said that there will be less pressure on wages. If there is less pressure on wages, this also automatically means that pensions will not go up in accordance with the legislation adopted, and this seems illogical to me, or that is certainly not an argument. However, I must say, I would also like to stress this, given the difficult situation of some economic groups in Slovenia, as a member of the Kozyan region, I am now much more concerned about the future of Steklarna Rogaška Slatina than is currently the law. I know you had good intentions, but it's quite a flaw.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u233	We continue the debate. The word has been given by the Ambassador Maja Potrat.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u234	Thank you for your word. Dear colleague Mikolitch. In the previous marriage, it was necessary to ask this question when we discussed it, which was the subject that was being judged there. However, I must say that I am surprised that the coalition with such a "vehemence" rejects this law after the workers who have lost their jobs and, with the support of these workers, say that they must themselves be more motivated to improve their position. And the law that we are currently discussing is exactly what the government is talking about, that we need to worry about better motivation for those who are employed and it would be good to look at the excessiveness that the government has probably written this opinion on September 26th, when it has probably already had some reason to write itself that it rejects the law for solutions that are inflexible and disproportionately burdened economic operators and would also represent a new administrative burden. It would be interesting to know what the government meant. As far as ill-prepared marriage is concerned, let me just mention it. Tuesday we passed a law in which only one article was not amended in the second reading, and it was prepared by the government. So if he wants, the weaknesses can be resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u235	Thank you. My word to the vice president, Master Vasja Klavora. He's not in the hall. That's why I give the floor to Member Cyril Testen. You're giving up. I would like to invite Member Mirani to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u236	Thank you very much. The content of the law is also prepared after consultation with economic stakeholders, including trade unions, including the Chamber, including the Association of Employee Owners. We tried to take different perspectives into account. However, the views were not entirely uniform and yet they are not. Employees are primarily interested in the adoption of a law whereby participation in profits for companies with 30 or more employees would be compulsory. Why? Because they do not trust that a system will be in place that will really enable them to do so, even by referring to the bad experience with the certificates you mentioned. And I am most pleased when you mention those who, 6, 7, 8 years ago, were not prepared to solve the problem, but if you look at any history, you will look at my name, which is two, three years also in a hard battle with the government, for at least a minimum of the problem to be solved. On the contrary, the owners were interested in Please. [[...]] Who led the government? The government was led by Mr Drnovšek at the time and we were not in it, for some time your predecessors were Christian Democrats, and for a very long time the People's Party, which was also one of the protagonists of adopting such a law and such solutions. So, history is long and such observations, Mr Sok, only mean that you want to know what suits you and forget what does not suit you. What I'm trying to say is this. Of course, the owners were primarily interested that participation was not defined as compulsory, but that tax relief was envisaged in any way. Because that would be what would motivate them to participate in the profits and participation of workers in ownership and in equity. So, the views are different, only if this government and this Parliament wanted them to find solutions, could they be found, and there is no excuse not to go there. Look, talk about it, we can't, because it would be against other legislation. Yesterday, we very seriously warned you that a law that would be adopted in contravention of another law, or with the rules of procedure of the National Assembly, even if it were to be adopted in unconstitutional proceedings, could hardly be completely overcome by at least a desire to reconsider, I do not know what the decision would be, so it is worth thinking about this law. The time is right for him, I'm still a bit of an optimist that maybe by Tuesday you'll give yourself a decision to make if you don't, but it will mean that you don't want the working stock and the participation in the profits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u237	Thank you. I call on Ambassador Rudolph Petan to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u238	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Respectable. So, I think we've found more or less united in this law, that it's probably a topic that's probably important, which we probably all support, but of course what they say, but it's a hell of a thing or a devil in detail. This certainly raises the question of how this law belongs to our system, when in fact ownership structures are not yet regulated, when privatisation is virtually over and when we have a lot of confusion and different opinions in different situations on the same subject. And let me tell you a specific case. For example, our ownership structure is such that small shareholders with a few billion in their own company are said to be a private company and a company that is still running it, which is still a public or part of it. And then basically this small shareholder is the director of the company or the manager of the administration, and then it's a big mistake to behave against his own company, which he wants to invest in, or at the expense of the company that runs it, through which he wants to channel a certain profit. Let me give you an example, this is the case of Rogaška, who was helped by the state with enormous resources, and the management has set up 28 circuit companies through which profits and inflows in the company have been channelled. I'm not going to explain any further. I hope you all understand what I'm trying to say. It will be difficult to put into such a system what is the intention of this law, which we are discussing today, what profits, what co-ownership, and so forth. The next thing I would like to point out is that we have only considered similar content on the committee in 1997 and that it was on the part of respected colleagues on this side, the proponents, to say that I will not speak on the name, but I will only read what was said: "I would point out that at the last meeting of the National Assembly we have adopted the following conclusion: The National Assembly recommends to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia that, in future, in all laws whose content is related to issues dealt with with by collective agreements or other forms of communication with other partners, the explanation of the law explicitly indicate whether an agreement has been reached with the social partners on these issues..." and so on. So, honourable proponents, I appreciate your efforts, there is no doubt about it, and I also agree with intent. However, I don't know how you imagined that the content you were defending would now be served in the form of this law to the government, then the government should harmonise what the proposer should do. It's a little awkward. And then, of course, let the government deal with it. But what I was going to say about this marriage is that I didn't mean to coordinate like that, but well, let's just leave it at that. I hope you understand what I'm saying. I would also like to say that this content of the law is also inconsistent with other laws, including tax legislation, which you had much to say about. But I must tell you that such tax legislation, which is now, is the product of some long-standing development of this legislation, and we know who is most deserving of this long-standing development of this legislation. You probably won't say that this is a minority in the National Assembly and not those who didn't run the government. And of course, I can say that this government does not know what kind of tax policy it should be, that I can say that this government is very quickly in this "dumbus" of this tax maze, when there is a second degree of the matter, but there is also a sub-legal act. They found each other very quickly. I would also like to say that when is the right time for marriage? I'd say at any moment, it's only right time if it's okay. But I must tell you that if we do not accept this law now, then it will never be the right time that it will never be adopted. Of course, I would like to tell you that not to judge everything by their own actions, others may be doing differently and I am sure that this government will do a little differently. There's only one thing I'd like. Given that you are now such great advocates of this participation and profit sharing, I hope that when this government takes this issue seriously, it will not become a problem for Mercator, when you have asked the state to withdraw from the economy a month ago, and now that the government has done so, everything is wrong. And it's not going to be the same in this division of profits. In view of the fact that time is pursuing, I would only remind you that even interested ones, this is what the Chamber of Commerce says has a lot of doubts about such a solution to the law and you know that if the government wanted the law you proposed to adopt, because the Chamber of Commerce has a lot of concerns, it would be difficult to decide to support such a law. However, I would like to say that I hope that, given that the government is preparing for tax changes, it will also, at an appropriate time, prepare this law on the participation of employees in profits, so that this will not take too long. But it is true that this is related to the ownership of businesses and I hope that this will be resolved in due course, so that we can also deal with this content. By not supporting such a law, however, I will support a law that I hope will be drawn up by the government as soon as possible, which will solve fully and which will not conflict with other laws in our legal system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u239	Thank you. I would like to take the floor by inviting the bill-maker. Please. Let's get out of here.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u240	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Every time it's the right time to adopt a marriage, it's now said, only if it's willful. Of course, you do not confirm this by fact, but in words it is good to hear it. This government, Mr Petan, I listened to you when you spoke, but now do not jump into words and behave culturally. [[..]] [[ad from the bench.]] No, thank you, too. [[..]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u241	Peace in the hall. The only member of the Contiq has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u242	Thank you very much, Vice President. This government will act differently. There is no time for him to act differently, and that government must now act differently. For one year now, it is time for him to start doing as she foretold. Mercator's nightmare is yours. In every marriage, whatever we say is Mercator, Mercator, Mercator. You're under a lot of pressure with this Mercator. The government says the most about the concerns in one of Slovenia's journals, which he wrote nicely: The government adopted yesterday's position on the law on the participation of employees in the company's profits and ownership of employees. First of all, she announced that she was committed to making workers part of their profits and to becoming shareholders in their businesses. It was then concluded that the government did not support the above-mentioned proposal. Makes sense. You're welcome. It really makes sense. For four months is the law of the Lord Petan, be still; for another time I tell you. [[...]] The Government had the opportunity to define itself by this law for four months. What did she do? The last week, the same week, when we were discussing the law at the National Assembly, she took her decision at a written meeting and took a three-minute period to explain her rejection position to the Secretary of State and left the Chamber. Very interesting, very constructive and very informative. The law is inconsistent with other laws. Of course, it is inconsistent if it regulates matters that are regulated by laws that speak of taxes, and we want to settle this in this law. And before reforming or reforming the tax system, the government has the opportunity to take these solutions, which will be enshrined in this law, into the tax reform or in the taxes it is preparing. The division of profits is also possible now, say managers according to your words and is possible and there is nothing necessary except incentives, perhaps in the field of tax legislation. Then why isn't this participation on employee profits? Why is profit not shared among employees? Because this profit is too expensive. Because this profit has to be recorded as a tax relief in the law. We propose to write this down in this law and to fully resolve this matter in this law. In the process of adoption, involve the social partners. We've turned to all social partners. One of them is the government, which has been identified as negative but truly the only social partner that has been identified negatively. Everyone else supports the law, and some of the facts have been said in this Chamber today, they support the law, but they have certain concerns about certain comments and they want improvements. It is true and true, so it is also possible to reach a social agreement with the social partners, but it can also be achieved by a second reading. What do we expect the government to do about it? Participation in the legislative process as usual. Even when the government is a bill-maker, it participates in the procedure of the National Assembly because it is, in fact, the law in the National Assembly and it is no longer the government that corrects and submits a new or other text. We now have a few revised rules of procedure, as has been the case in the past. The Chamber of Commerce has also been designated by law on behalf of probably employers. She identified herself and had the time to make that definition, because in June, in early July, she asked the College of the National Assembly to decide to move the law to the September session so that they could make comments. They have prepared comments, but the first sentence speaks of the fact that the law is an appropriate professional basis for discussion and for making a good, quality law. DESAP, it was said that they objected. They have concerns. Of course they do, but they support the adoption of this law and have done so publicly. Trade unions as one of the social partners support the adoption of the law. And they don't make much of a deal. However, it can happen that they will now condition the adoption of a social agreement if the government is not prepared to act in this direction. [[Mr. Petan, it's you again! I've got enough. I've got ten minutes for you too, Mr. Sok.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u243	Peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u244	Mr Vice-President, I propose that you ensure peace or that you suspend the meeting in accordance with the Rules of Procedure if colleagues are unable to abstain.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u245	That's exactly what I'm gonna do. If you get in the way of a speaker, I'll stop the session. It's your call. Please continue.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u246	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The law does not exclude those who were in a business year when profits were made, but who were in hospital or maternity. Of course it doesn't rule them out. We demand that these also participate in the profits generated by their company, even if they were on sick leave or maternity leave at that time. And we will insist on that. The political orientation of the proposed law is, unfortunately, always when proposed by the government. We are MPs to politicians, and when we propose a law, of course this is a political attitude. However, the fact that only the government can come up with a quality proposal, and on the basis of this text, I doubt it. I could have made it by now. Greater participation of the Association of Workers' Councils. It is true that the law states that trade unions, representative unions on the part of employees are those and, of course, with 50% of the support of employees in this company who are in charge of concluding contracts by employees. But right after that, if it isn't, it's the workers' council and then it's the workers' assembly if there's no workers' council. Of course, it is possible to introduce some kind of equality into the law, which was also a proposal to write down representative unions and the workers' council or representative unions or the workers' council. To capture everything, not just capital companies. We are also considering that further adoption of the law would state that personal societies are also covered here. Some comments were also made on how the area of non-economic activity would be regulated by this law. This is also, of course, possible with a special chapter that can be incorporated into this law or in the law on public institutions, which I think would be better. Recent reliefs - at this point we will jeopardise entry into the euro area. So you are preparing tax legislation, including what the government is preparing, in a way that will increase taxes. Otherwise, I don't know how to explain this stuff. The law should define volunteerism, non-compulsoryness. Here is a common denominator of quite some who have made comments. Even in the group that was preparing this law, we thought seriously about this dilemma of what to do. Will it be voluntary or compulsory? When we looked at the data a little bit, and the fact that this is already possible, nothing is happening in this area, and in view of the situation in the Slovenian economy and the situation in which the employees are located, we have decided to register an obligation in companies over 30 employees. I already said in the introduction, I don't know if this is the optimal number and it's controversial and it's possible to discuss it when preparing the law for second reading. Taxes on a special marriage. As I have already said, we advocate that tax reliefs and reliefs in the payment of social benefits, or social benefits, are covered by this law. However, it should again be pointed out that the pay system is separate from the share of profits, that the pay system is also separate from the labour shareholding. We don't interfere with wage policy, and we don't touch wages. However, we wish that workers would not only be costs in the form of wages, but also participate in the distribution of profits created. That the managers felt that we did not need to marry for a while, I also heard that in this room. We will need some time in Slovenia to come to an understanding that the sharing of profits among other employees is not just between managers and capital owners, but what leads us forward, which leads us to developed societies both in Europe and in the wider world. Pension insurance or savings, in particular, is in this law, where we encourage those who withdraw from the equity scheme or the equity scheme when the shares are sold on the securities market, not to spend that money for consumption, but to use that money for savings, pension savings, thereby providing higher pensions. Of course, this law does not directly affect higher pensions at this time in general, normally, because in fact the investment in pension savings is an individual’s investment in a slightly delayed period. The deficit that will arise in the budget is, of course, a deficit that will arise and will need to be replaced by other sources of revenue or a reduction in consumption. This is clear, of course, but the investment of this deficit in the budget will be a good long-term investment, which will also lead to a greater profit for the remaining increased share of the profits that will arise due to the additional motivation of the employees. Of course, I also thank you for your substantive support, which I also expect, and I am not interested in the others. Therefore, there are still some dilemmas that, according to my assessment and my assessment of the applicants, can be resolved in the further process of adopting this law. Of course, there will be some unresolved matters left, when we do not agree, and we will also have to decide what is right. What's important about this is - and since I have a little more time, it's only right to say again - this law regulates the division of profits. Sharing profits between those they create, not just among capital owners. This law, in addition to the division of profits, also speaks of labour-sharing, promoting labour-sharing. Despite the fact that employees have poor experience from previous years, from the period of privatisation, from the Slovenian transition, it is also right to realize in time that ownership is important and that it is right to participate. And I'm sure when the matter is transparent, there'll be a lot more. And in the end, of course, pension savings. We encourage pension savings because we don't care what happens when an individual retires, when he's not actually active anymore. Today, however, we can read from the magazines that the country behaves stepmotherly toward pensioners or older ones. It is important that we support this law today, allow it to be finalized in the following cases. If the government takes the floor and comes to Parliament in a short time with tax reforms, this lack of consistency of this law, which is evident by the government, can be resolved in the future or very quickly. Today, however, we will decide whether to divide the profits that individuals make in addition to the owners of capital between them, or whether they are entitled to that share of the profits. This is all we will be deciding today at this meeting of the National Assembly and all the details in the second reading.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u247	Thank you, proposer. Since the time for discussion has not yet passed - we have 54 minutes planned - I ask Members and Members, does anyone else want a word at this time? Please raise your hands to write this down. Allow me to ask you a question, colleague Kontić, on behalf of the proposer or Member? The messenger. We have four on the list: Bojan Starman, Štebe, Mikolič, Kontic. Each of the panellists will have five minutes. I would like to take the floor with you, Ambassador Bojan Starman.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u248	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members and Members! The old saying is, "The opportunity missed doesn't come back." I think that the bill that we have on the table is populist, pointless, economically harmful and completely unjust. I'm going to argue with all this data. The fact is, in those rare companies that generate large profits, in Slovenia very few people are employed, who on average also have 3 times the wages of other people in Slovenia. Therefore, I see no reason why they would be practically exempt from the tax by this option, which means a practical salary without contributions to pension and social and other taxes, and therefore I see no point. Second thing. In Slovenia, we allocated 60% of the property to citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, which could be invested in companies or indirectly into investment funds, which also became owners of the company. By means of the Company Act, we have made it possible to fully control all aspects of the business, since in larger companies we have legislated that half of the representatives of workers are in the Supervisory Councils, half of the representatives of capital. If we add to this those shares when employees had them in companies, this means that they had virtually such control and the possibility of determining profits and also deciding in this direction. I don't know, as owners, I don't know why this hasn't happened in ten years and why profits have accumulated on just some addresses. I don't think it's fair either, from this point of view, to divide our citizens into one minority, which has already been so lucky, that it's in companies that make a lot of profits, and into those poor people who will always be poor and even poorer. I don't think I'm talking about economic eligibility. The fact is that we do not have foreign capital, investment in new jobs. But who will invest capital in our company, where they will not have the opportunity to control their capital and the results of their business? Just what I mentioned earlier has practically led to the failure of the owner and that potential investor to have and decide how to achieve the maximum return on capital, of course he will not invest. And we're wondering why there's no foreign investment. If we legalize profits, we have yet another motivation for foreign investment, or we have in the future devoured one part of the expected profit from the one who is to invest or share. It is said that they would do themselves a very bad favor, make their potential worse, make their job opportunities worse, and thus do great harm to the state. Justice in this, I mean, would be very, very bad and very low. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u249	Thank you. The next is Member Tomaž Šteba.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u250	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! First two, three sentences for the intro. Most of the proponents have had their souls criticized by the current government and you forget about your past decade of government, so you comment on everything else, do not talk about the solution in the law, except the exceptions that are comparable to the successful competitive liberally uncentralised economy. There is also a great deal of socio-realistic self-government nostalgia or reflection in the debates of the advocates, as well as in the law itself. In successful economies of the so-called capitalist economies, as once said to these economies, the long-term and fair-minded owner or owners use a large amount of means of participation of employees to motivate them to commit to the company on a voluntary basis and evaluate. Known socially sensitive capitalist conglomerates from the information age are all successful information companies and very well know how to take care of the participation and social correction of their employees, in cases of redundancies and method of motivation, such as participation of employees in the ownership of the company in any way, IBM, Microsoft, Bill Gates and these billionaires, three, have received a minimum wage for several years and have also allocated several shares after entering the stock exchange. And most employees, the ones at the beginning, are equally very concerned about the success of the company. But they haven't seen the money in a long time, and even now they don't, they don't pay for it as modern Slovenian mega capitalists. However, if not through participation, they shall provide themselves with a mass social component by determining the supply or sale of shares. The last such big case was Google, which is all of the world's money owners, whatever, everyone can now own some Google shares if they've made up their minds. That's the social and socialist thing. I have read the law myself, not all, but I have not seen, even though I am not a lawyer, I am not an economist, so precise as to determine how a contract must be drawn up. I've never seen anything like it. I don't know if that's really a marriage. In fact, the worst part is that the law somehow forces all companies with more than 30 employees to act in this way. The provisions somehow try to solve any possible complications in this marriage or any possible variants that may occur in one such company. See, the tax exemptions imposed in some way by this law, regardless of the consistency and integrity of the overall tax policy, can also lead to inequality, inequality and uncoordinated rights. I think that tax reform and facilitation must be consistent and integrated into the concept of the tax social system. A serious approach is taken with consequential enforcement if necessary by laws and regulations. The municipalities that we reach for each newborn must pay all the contributions that follow. There's no exception. I do not defend the law, but I hope that, through tax policy and other instruments, it will be possible to motivate them in some way, but not to force owners and businesses to act in a way that motivates their employees, that somehow they will gain them for belonging to businesses, because we know that they are not the main motivator. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u251	Thank you. Member Martin Mikolić has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u252	Thank you very much. I would like to inform my fellow Member, Mrs Potrata, otherwise she is not here, well-meaningly, given that she had previously warned me in good faith that she could discuss the problems of Steklarna Rogaška Slatina at the previous point, that the previous point had the subject of amending and supplementing the Law on Aid to Economic Companies. I would say, however, before the beginning or at the stage of the previous point, it was very sad here in the National Assembly that there were only about 15 Members present at the start of this law. And I even mentioned to my fellow Member here, look, when we're talking about laws concerning the economy, we're talking about such a low presence or lack of interest. It was even sadder that we were at the 14th point of the Law or of the Amendments that we had discussed this point for an hour. But because of some whims, given that the minister made it clear that there must be a 14th point of the law in this dictatorship, as it was presented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u253	Thank you. I give my word to Ambassador Aleš Gulic.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u254	Respectable, respectable! The Act on Labour Participation in Profit, or even Labour Participation in Profit, seems to me to be one of the more important issues we are discussing. It seems to me that this institute is one of those who, however, can bring better control within the economy itself. All that happened after 1991 at the time of privatisation makes me think that in some way different controls have been abandoned, either abandoned or in some way hidden and hidden, but of course without any special effect. It seems to me that the introduction of labour participation would be one of those instruments that would not only stimulate people to work better and be more loyal to their businesses, but would also establish one of the controls. We often complain that the supervisory councils do not perform their functions well, that the state does not perform its functions, that trade unions, rather than being attached to the work, are essentially attached to parties that have been, in some way, established or supported. And then there's a part of the management that can manage it, fix it as it pleases. Labour participation would also allow this part. That is why it seems important to me that this debate in Parliament has resumed again after seven years, and I think it is a great shame that it should be closed. That seems to me to be the worst in fact, in case the law is rejected. Actually, because we know exactly that that's not going to be talked about. The government rejected the law by praising the intention, which is nice and right, but it's a really big deal in the pocket. The other thing that worries me is that the government usually says, in the end, that it rejects the law because it itself has one in preparation. Well, this time I didn't hear this sentence, so I really doubt that this high assembly is going to talk about it, at least it doesn't seem to be in a short time. That's why I'm going to support this marriage. There are a number of issues that I would like to ask them, especially the 30 employees limit - because we know that the most pro-pulsive and profitable companies are the ones that have less than 30 employees, and the question is whether those people are already sufficiently stimulated and so on. But these are things that I think all of us 90 or as much as we did when we talked about it and talked about it. I think that this is also a topic that, because we all want the good in Slovenia, could draw the best out of all of us. That is why it seems to me that it makes sense for us to continue this debate, but obviously we can only continue it by pressing for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u255	Thank you. Member Rudolf Petan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u256	Thank you for your word. I'll be very brief. So, everything the motioner said earlier holds something. Moreover, it is also true that this law is not in accordance with many of the laws we have in Slovenia, and that has also resulted in the legal crumbling, I said legal crumbling. Of course, some things hold, and we talked about them, and I said so myself. But that's where the credibility problem comes in. If you knew all of this, why didn't you continue with the law that came only to the committee in 1997 and here at the plenary session no longer. Why didn't you build up, and today you might have twice fixed this marriage, and it would be wonderful. All of this would be realized, as we have heard today and as you know of course. The fact is, the honourable motioner, that after that term of 1997, as I recall, you really haven't been in the government all along. But in your previous term, you were in the government the whole time. Or we could have tried, but we wouldn't know how to coordinate in a coalition, but we would have come by marriage, and maybe in four years we'd have gotten him to one very good shape. And you didn't do it. But I'm not reading it to you, I'm just saying you're amazing, because right now you know everything and you know everything and you know everything. I don't know how you just suddenly missed everything, and when I said that you've been saying a lot of things over and over, I would remind you of some untruth. I just don't understand how you could have said that the machete government was treating the elderly. I just don't know how. One of the first laws adopted by this government was the Social Act, or I do not know what it was called. The point was that pensions were slightly different in line with wages, so that the backlog was slightly smaller. As far as I know, it's on the opposition's side, I'm not gonna tell a respected colleague who doesn't know how he voted because I didn't control it. But on the other hand, the biggest concern was how this law would now bring the state treasury to its knees. I don't know how you can tell us that this government is macho to the elderly.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u257	Mr. Petan, please stick to the content of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u258	That's the lie you said. I agree that the proposaler has also gone through this and I just replied that I remind him that he was telling the truth and I think it was completely overkill. I don't think we're gonna get that far. However, I am absolutely sure that the 1997 law would continue so that today it would not be necessary for the same political option to introduce another similar law, but says the other is unrealistic. But it's been almost ten years, and they haven't done anything. That's all I'm saying, Mr. Vice President, if I'm really gone. But the proposalr went down, too, because he told us so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u259	Thank you. The last one has the floor, Member Bojan Kontic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u260	Thank you very much. Even those who walk by sometimes find their way out of this delusion, and I always count on it. In 1997 the United List of Social Democrats was not in the government; from 1996 to 2000, it was not in this mandate. It wasn't an entire mandate in the previous term either, so I'll let you know. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u261	Mr Kontic, please, stick to the content of the law, leave the speakers in front of you, emphasize the emphasis and stick to the content. Please. I believe it is important to decide who formed the government in 1997. This is not the subject of this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u262	It is important, Mr Vice-President, because if we were in the government in 1997, we would have passed this law by then. That's not how we did it, because we weren't in the government at the time, and we couldn't take the procedure to the end. When we talk about the unnecessary need to regulate this, it is interesting that the most advanced countries have it in order and have known it for some time and are probably a step ahead of us because of this. If we want to reduce this gap, we will have to do more than we are ready to do right now. Talking about how we're going to share profits among those who make profits in companies where they don't exist, they won't. True, but there will have to be another way to care for those who are below the threshold of poverty. Here, where there's profit, it's only right that profit is shared among those who created it. But once again, if the profits are split, the employees are entitled to it. If the profit is not split and there is no profit-sharing decision, the employees do not receive this profit either. There's no automatics. And in support, I have just so much time that, given what was said to be an economic chamber opposed, the association of the worlds of workers of Slovenian companies opposes only the introductory phrases or passages. Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia: "We also believe that the proposal for a law on the participation of employees in the company's profits and ownership of employees, EPA 2194," is our law, which we are considering today, "may constitute an expert basis for discussion. It is important that the integration of the interests of capital and employees is ensured in order to achieve the greatest possible profit and development potential and the development prospects of companies." Then there are some concerns or comments that they want to settle in this law. Association of the Council of Workers of Slovenian Enterprises: "The proposal has made a significant improvement in the 1997 law and, as such, constitutes a very qualitative basis for the future normative regulation of the system of financial participation of employees in Slovenia. Of course, it will need to be further refined and complemented through the debate under the legislative procedure in some elements. The Association of Councils of Workers of Slovenian Enterprises has certainly supported the adoption of this law as widely as possible. With these comments, we only want to contribute to its additional content." We also have a clear message from the government that supports the content of this area, the need for regulation. Not with this law, otherwise we know why not, and we also have public statements from union representatives who support the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u263	Thank you. This concludes the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the meeting's timing, decide today in the context of the half-hour vote, that is, at 18.15. I'm adjourning the meeting. We'll continue on 18.15.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u264	Dear Members! Please take your seats. In a few moments, we will begin by continuing the meeting of the National Assembly. We begin by continuing the regular session. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. We continue with the 12th item of the agenda - consideration of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on holidays and working days in the Republic of Slovenia, short procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is the decision on the amendments tabled. Before we go to the vote, I ask Members and Members to check the functioning of the voting apparatus, namely, the orange light must be on the right hand side of the card. Since I do not see a complaint, it means that we can go to the vote. Comrade Bevk, allow us to proceed to the vote on Article 1. Explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u265	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! First of all, I would like to say that the government was not even right enough for me and my colleagues to say that the proposal for a new holiday, a day of independence and unity was copied, even though they initially promised me that the original authorship would be written down in explanation of the law. Now it's December 26th or December 23rd? If it were just a day of independence and a transfer to 23 December, the concerns of the Secretary of State and Members of the SDS and NSI, who are the only ones opposed to the new date, would still understand. In this case, however, it is a substantive improvement of the law. Not only for a day of independence, but also for a day of unity. Here is the fact that 1 million 361 000 738 voters and voters participated in the plebiscite for the independent and independent Republic of Slovenia on 23 December and that 1 million 289 thousand 369 voters or 95 % of all those who participated in the plebiscite voted in favour of that argument, which must prevail. Such folk crowds of Slovenes and Slovenes and citizens for one day, on 23 December 1990, have not mobilised and unified any ideas in all Slovenian history. Therefore, only organisational and technical concerns against this solution are not credible. That is why I appeal to you, ladies and gentlemen, to support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u266	Thank you. We are voting on the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group to Article 1. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present. 19 Members voted in favour of the amendment, up to 43. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We shall proceed with the vote. We vote on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Article 1. We're voting. There are 60 Members present, 58 in favour, against no one. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have ended the vote on the amendments and thus the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted the amendment to Article 1 of the amended bill. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table an amendment to this Article. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u267	Yeah.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u268	I'm asking you, do you need a break?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u269	I don't think so. Just enough to reproduce.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u270	It's a deal. In view of the fact that we must wait for the amendments to be split, I propose that the National Assembly proceed with the 18th point and return to the 12th point. Does anyone object? [[No, no, ……]] Then I think we can move on to the 18th item of the agenda. We continue with the end of the 18th item of the agenda, the consideration of the proposal for a law amending the law on Bludk's recognitions, the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill in the context of a reduced procedure. Since no amendments have been tabled to the amended proposal, it is not possible to table amendments in the third reading. That's why we're moving on to a decision on the law. In doing so, I inform you that the Government or the Legal and Legislative Service has not informed me that the law would be inconsistent. Anybody want to explain their voice? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. There are 63 Members present, 61 Members voted against. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 20th item of the agenda, the consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Public Roads, the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill in the context of a reduced procedure. Since no amendments have been tabled to the amended proposal, it is not possible to table amendments in the third reading. In doing so, I inform you that, as a result of the amendments adopted at the meeting of the parent working body, there has been a disagreement between Articles 8 and 20. To this end, the Government has submitted a harmonisation amendment to Articles 8 and 20, which you received on the bench. He wants to speak to the government about the harmonisation amendments? [[No, no, ……]] Do Members and Members want the word? [[No, no, ……]] Since no one wants to discuss it, we are moving on to a decision. We vote on the Government's harmonisation amendment to Article 8. We're voting. There are 63 Members present, 62 votes against none. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Government harmonisation amendment to Article 20. We're voting. There are 64 Members present, 64 votes against. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. We're voting. There are 66 Members present, 66 votes against none. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the assembly has fully adopted the proposed law. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 21st item of the agenda - the consideration of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on aid for the rescue and restructuring of companies in difficulty, the reduced procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 2. Before we vote, I ask if anyone wants to explain his voice. Comrade Webber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u271	Thank you for your word. In the amendment, we propose that the article be deleted for a very simple reason. We're talking about a law that's supposed to help restructure firms in difficulty. However, the provisions of this Article further exacerbate the conditions that such an undertaking must fulfil, which we find illogical and unacceptable when we talk about wanting to restructure an enterprise. At the same time, in all this procedure of adopting this law, both at the Committee and otherwise in the National Assembly, we have always remained halfway through whether or not it is possible and what will actually happen with those unpaid amounts that workers should receive when they leave the company without adequate compensation. The deletion of this provision, which is already in the current law, of course we also believe that because of a vague position it does not fall within the framework of the law with which something is repealed, although in our view it is not necessary. However, the main reason why this article should be deleted is that companies in difficulty are not burdened by additional rules, so I will vote in favour of this amendment to delete the article.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u272	Thank you. We are voting on the amendment of Article 2 of the Social Democrats Group. We're voting. There are 64 Members present, 20 votes against 41. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Social Democrats Group to Article 3. Explanation of voice. Mr. Weber, on behalf of the delegation or your own?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u273	Thank you for your word. On behalf of the Group of Members. In view of the fact already found in the previous article, although the article has, of course, been confirmed, we would like to point out once again that the provisions that state aid granted to medium and small enterprises should not affect the common European market are short, I can say, ridiculous. We ourselves prescribe these companies additional conditions so that we do not make problems for other businesses throughout the European market. It is simply a matter of joining the government in a way where any aid proposal to the restructuring firm comes before the Commission in Brussels, there will be no need to negotiate whether this aid is necessary or will need to be taken to remedy any distortions of competition on the market, because no firm in difficulty will be able to prepare such an elaboratory to actually analyse the European market and say, well, now we are proving to you that the European market will be able to function if we get this assistance. But of course, I stress, for small and medium-sized enterprises. I think that we are seriously needlessly inventing additional and additional criteria that are primarily stifling our economy and are not helping them to restructure. And this is once again one of those articles, which, if it stays in law, will, of course, prevent small and medium-sized enterprises from even deciding to help, let alone, of course, to get it, and it is only for our government representatives to justify such assistance in Brussels before the Commission. The point is that we will probably go to Brussels for coffee, and say, look how few problems we have in Slovenia with companies. They will probably be able to conclude in Brussels soon that we do not even need any specific cohesion regions, because we are actually fine, because businesses are not in any trouble at all. With these starting points, we cannot really go to Brussels with this law, so I propose to support the amendment, which simply deletes this article and allows us to have a more active policy towards Brussels and our businesses.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u274	Thank you. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present. 18 votes against 41. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are voting on the amendment of Article 5 of the Social Democrats Group. Ambassador Weber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u275	Thank you for your word. It is significant for Slovenia that, compared to other European countries, it is also settled in rural areas and that this population is denser than in European Union countries. With the provision we are introducing with the amendment, we would like to draw attention to this precisely, because the situation in the farthest places is much more difficult than near the highway network, near the larger urban centres and so on. It is difficult to get an economic programme that will pass into an environment that is, of course, far away, with fewer staff with adequate education and where, in fact, the cost of doing business is higher than it would have been if you were anywhere nearer to logistics centres. As we consider re-assigning some assistance to a company that is in difficulty, it is essential to take into account social criteria and employment opportunities in an environment where such an undertaking is also established. In the work so far, there is not a single measure to relieve these companies, such as in the border area, outside the highway, and allowing them to come again, irrespective of the fact that they have been helped once before. We have never come to this, not because we have not complied with this very social criteria. And Europe allows this, this is a completely European category, and if we accept this, it allows us to at least prove in Europe that we also have a region with us, where we need to do twice as much help as we do to an enterprise. That's why I'm going to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u276	Thank you. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. 61 Members and Members are present. 20 votes to 40. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled to Article 6 – the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group of Members. Anybody want to explain their voice? First, I ask on behalf of the Group of Members. My friend Tanko? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u277	I would procedurally warn you that the four parliamentary groups have also tabled an amendment to Article 6, which I have here in the original. In this predictive work, you let it go, and now it's a technical mistake. Please check it out.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u278	Allow me a minute or two to find out. In the meantime, I suggest we proceed with the meeting. Who's opposed to this kind of way of moving to a broken 22nd point? As I see that none of the Members or Members oppose the proposal, we continue with the 22nd paragraph of the agenda, which is the first reading of the draft law on the participation of employees in the company's profits and on the ownership of employees. We are moving on to a decision on the next proposal for a decision. The proposal for a law on the participation of employees in company profits and on the ownership of employees, the first consideration, is suitable for further consideration. Someone wants to explain their voice. [[No, no, ……]] We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 63 Members present, 24 votes against 36. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 36.]] I therefore note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the proposal is therefore closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're going back to the early break of the 21st item of the agenda. It was a technical error. We will decide on the amendment tabled to Article 6, the candidate of the Slovenian Democratic Party parliamentary group, the New Slovenia parliamentary group, the Slovenian People's Party parliamentary group and the Democratic Party of the Pensioners' Group. Before making a decision, does anyone want to explain their voice? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving to the vote. We're voting. 61 Members attended, 45 votes against 12. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 12.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled to the 7th Article of the Social Democrats Group. Anybody want to explain their voice? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 41. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled by the Social Democrats Group to Article 8. Anybody want to explain their voice? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 39. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are voting on the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group to Article 11. Explanation of voice. Member Weber, on behalf of the Group of Members or its own?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u279	Thank you for your word. On behalf of the Group of Members. In the previous amendments, I did not want to come forward again, although the substantive interpretation was similar. In this article, however, I would like to draw attention to the real superficiality, inconsistentness, and I could find any further expression of the proposaler as to how he was preparing for the economic restructuring law. It is the limits the company has in difficulty if it is able to obtain the company. Among other things, the applicant stated that he must not have any outstanding obligations. So he didn't want to, and he wanted to define it as a liability, but he simply wrote in the law "anything". While this has been corrected by the committee, it is not what we would have expected of this law that it is at least an outstanding obligation. Indeed, the applicant still considers it to be the same whether the company has outstanding obligations of 100 tolars, 5,000 tolars or 5 million. This is the exact same category for the applicant and indeed shows the Government's inappropriate approach to firms in difficulty. We therefore propose, in Article 11, the deletion of the second paragraph. This allows, I stress, also for an undertaking that may have 5,000 tolls or 100 tolls of outstanding obligations to be included in the restructuring and aid programme. If this is not deleted, all those who also have these minimum outstanding obligations will be excluded from the possibility of getting rid of the possibility of retaining jobs and encouraging some economic growth, I would say, perhaps even in the places I have already mentioned, because it is very difficult to get an alternative job. I will therefore vote in favour of this amendment, which deletes such a meaningless provision of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u280	Thank you. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 64 members and a Member of Parliament present, with 21 votes against 41. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are voting on the amendment of Article 14 of the Social Democrats Group. Anybody want to explain their voice? [[Not]] . Member Weber, on behalf of the Group of Members or in its own?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u281	On behalf of the Group of Members. Article 14 is what I should say, supporting somehow those who are supposed to care that they have at least the records that the company has received. In order to avoid this need to be monitored, this article states that the aid application must indicate whether the company has already received rescue or restructuring aid in the past. Even so, it is obvious that the government does not want to try so hard to establish a serious record, to monitor the company in difficulty, and, last but not least, to duly justify all the solutions, I repeat, to the Brussels Commission, which must also grant such assistance. And by deleting this article, let us make it possible for this part of the government that takes care of these companies in restructuring to at least conscientiously try to establish records and not impose this task on those who invest, but not least, there are no criteria, and what should be considered to be any assistance. If help is possible, I don’t know if you might put off a fee or something in the congregation. The whole type of thing is unclear here and what should be included in this application for aid is an unclear criterion, so it is better to delete it than to remain in law. We will, of course, vote in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u282	Thank you. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 40. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment and accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. This is what we're moving to the Minister you want? [[...]] [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] I'm done with the second hearing. We'll go to third reading. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted amendments to Article 6 of the amended bill. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table an amendment to this Article. [[No, no, ……]] I find that no amendments were tabled in the third reading. On the basis of paragraph 5 of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the legislature and the Government have not informed me that the law on the grounds of the amendments adopted would not be harmonised. We're moving on to a decision on the law. We're voting. 62 Members and Members are present. The vote was 47 to 9. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I find that the law has been adopted and I conclude this point. During this time, all Members and Members of Parliament received the AMANMA K 12 Conciliation Table. Dots at third level. We can go to the debate on an individual amendment or an amendment before us. Who wants a word? Member Jelinčič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u283	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I think the amendment shows that both members of the indigenous minority people in Slovenia do not feel the citizen of Slovenia. They talk about the fact that the flag of the national communities should not be lifted at both festivals. I think we are witnessing a very perfidious experiment, I would say, the acquisition of a piece of history, the work of Slovenian territory and the work of the Slovenian national body. I think such an amendment is permissive. And just for a little while, I'm not going to support such subversiveness.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u284	Thank you. There's a member of Parliament, Mr. Pecan.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u285	Thank you very much. I will not support this amendment. I believe that you can believe that I know the situation in an area where Italians also live. I think that in this mandate I have already said quite a few words in this National Assembly in order to provide an opportunity for equal life and expression in the languages of both nationalities in Slovenia. And that's why I don't think anyone can tell me that now that I'm going to tell you why I'm not going to support this amendment, that anyone can manifest to me impatience or opposition just like that. The point is that I am sure that any holiday we define in Slovenia as a national holiday is a holiday for all of us who live in Slovenia. Whether we're pure-blooded Slovenians or not, I don't think anyone among us is a pure-blooded Slovenian, because if we went to see what our ancestors are, we'd find that we're all pure-blooded. If he is Italian, if Hungary is Roma, if he is immigrants, the second, third generation, from our former republics our former common country. That is why, of course, I cannot support an amendment that would thus exclude members of the Italian and Hungarian national communities when we celebrate our common holiday. When our predecessors decided and fought [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] The accession of Primorska Slovenije was not considered whether they were joining Slovenians or Italians, but they were talking about the national territory of Slovenia. [[...]] And I think it would be very ugly if [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u286	Mrs. Pecanova, please, if you'll finish.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u287	Italian flags wouldn't hang on drugs. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u288	Thank you. We continue the debate. Member Roberto Battelli has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u289	What I'm listening to right now is cheating! As you might say, it's a lot of gibberish. There's a lot of gibberish. Because he's accusing himself, of course, totally unjustifiable, of us or of me for something you've done. Besides, you know, I told you before what I thought about this marriage and these dates. So much so there won't be any misunderstandings about it. And lastly, let someone explain to me - rhetorically I ask this of course how in the case of Kopra, Izola and Piran, how can something go back to where it has never been before. I can't understand it. I think that this dictatorship, the return to where, among other things, is completely contrary to both the profession, with history, and with history - we are talking about Slovenian professions, Slovenian history and also with law. Because this also produces perfect communication in the light of all the well - known facts. Since these facts are well - known, then an operation is performed to make a difference. And last but not least, such a dictatorship is in conflict with those mechanisms for protecting minorities that we have.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u290	Thank you. Member Aleš Gulič submitted to the debate next.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u291	Mr. President-in-Office. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I am speaking on behalf of the Group of Members and we will not support the amendment to Article 1 in the Group of Members. In fact, the holiday is a holiday for all citizens as well as minorities living in the area [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u292	Comrade Gulič, let me just remind you, we're in a debate and not in an explanation of vote, so you can speak unlimitedly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u293	Minorities are also an integral part of everyone who resides in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, and it seems to me that even some self-inflicted people would not make any special sense. On the other hand, of course, holidays are not only intended to celebrate history, but are intended primarily for what new generations are supposed to do in this territory, say, cohesive, live normally, in harmony, in harmony, it is said, in all that we are doing as Slovenians and, of course, we have also entered the European Union as a union of nations. And it doesn't matter at the same time what happened in the past, but it is only right that we keep some memory of everything that still confirms us today in some way as the Slovenians and as the Italians and as Hungary, and especially as citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, so I think that such actions, and even banning flags, would all be a constructive contribution to our co-existence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u294	The next one to be reported is Member Friend.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u295	Thank you, Madam President. Respectable. It would be a shame to support such an amendment and, of course, it would be unacceptable, colleagues and colleagues, to allow themselves to be forced by law to disobey or, in fact, to disobey, to insolvent others of their own. Otherwise, I did not understand Mr Battelli earlier when he was talking about whether he might have defended the fascist border, the Rapal border or the neo-fascist aspirations of today's Italy border there on the "rrabbar command". I think that's what he was going to say. In short, I'm going to decide for myself that I don't think at all that I would press the "yes" button on such a shameful proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u296	Thank you. Member Jakob the Presbyterian has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u297	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Otherwise, I take note of Mr Battelli's reasons, because he is probably the author of this text of this amendment, but I must say that in the Slovenian People's Party's Group we are surprised that such an amendment has been tabled. I must say that such an amendment and such a solution do not by any means contribute to the unification of both nations, both on the Western and the Eastern borders, and I doubt that such an amendment is also a member of these two nationalities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u298	Thank you. The following is the statement made by the Member of Parliament, Joseph Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u299	Thank you very much. We will not support this amendment in the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group. The adoption of such an amendment could imply an explanation of the non-recognition of the sovereignty of the Republic of Slovenia in those territories by indigenous national communities. This would not be in the interest of co-existence between Slovenians and indigenous national communities. I believe that this is a matter of a slight lack of defence and that the colleague of the representative of indigenous national communities was not aware of all the possible implications of the adoption of such an amendment and, of course, like all the other parliamentary groups, I am stressing once again that we cannot support such an amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u300	Thank you. And the last submitted to the debate is Ambassador Maria Pozsonec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u301	Thank you very much. I can assure you that it doesn't grow on our lawn, but yesterday the government has already received one letter from the Lendava self-government community. They also protested against it. Today or again yesterday, Mr President of Tickle also received a letter from the umbrella organisation, so that we do not impose our opinion on anyone. That's one. Therefore let Mr Jelinčič leave such expressions, because what is shameful was what he said in the morning and now.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u302	Replica.Messenger Jelinčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u303	Thank you very much. Madam colleague Possonec, tell me who attacked Yugoslavia in World War II and in Yugoslavia at that time Slovenia: with Hungarian Hungarian fascists, Italian fascists from Italy. Or did the Slovenians attack Hungary, which joined Hitler, and Italy, which joined Hitler? And where's the shame? It is a shame that some want to restore those historicly terrifying times and restore and restore those moments in which Slovenian people have suffered so much in "lagers" when they were shot by fascists of various kinds. I think it's embarrassing for someone to even think about something like that and put an amendment like that in here! It does not matter where such an amendment comes from: whether it comes from your kind or from your kind of supporters or advocates. I think that, in fact, raising fascist tendencies here again in Slovenia, in this House is the greatest shame we can experience.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u304	Thanks for the replica. We continue the debate. Member Geza Juban has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u305	Thank you very much. Unfortunately, I cannot support this amendment either: whether my reason is purely practical-technical or perhaps a constitutional-legal problem. We added three dates in this law on holidays and holidays. And we celebrate holidays in Slovenia in a way that's probably like anywhere else in the world, it's that work is free days or it's not that people get together, prepare some cultural program, do something, or do nothing that day. In short, we celebrate in our own way. At the same time, or as communities, institutions, individuals, we also spread flags. Now let someone explain: these dates will come to the calendar of the holidays of the Republic of Slovenia. What will people do when they have on their calendar the holidays that we have adopted today? Because one of them is blowing up the flags at all the holidays we celebrate. Are we going to tell people separately on these two dates, inform them that they can't hang the flags? Because that's how I understand this text. I'm afraid I have to say that. Or is it recommended that they reveal or reason why not? I think that this is impossible and that it is also a problem, not just of a practical and technical nature, but of a broader nature. And I mean, I don't think we should vote on such an amendment. And what do I know? Maybe even for thought or withdraw such an amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u306	Thank you, Mr. Juban. Mr. Horvath, Joseph Horvath, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u307	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I would like to calm my passion, I think that the debate is not going in the right direction, but I would like to express my satisfaction that I live in a country that is so well regulated in the constitution of the State's relationship with national minorities. I think that Slovenia can boast of this. I believe that these relations between the countries themselves can improve towards the Hungarian national community and the Italian national community. We'll never get to perfection. We also discussed the State Administration Act yesterday because we want to further improve this service to members of national minorities. Once again, as many times as I have done today, I have repeated, as have some colleagues and colleagues: with this holiday law we do not intend to enter into the feelings of members of the national communities. I propose to the motions that these amendments be withdrawn. Otherwise, in New Slovenia, we are disappointed to have him on the bench, and we cannot support him. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u308	Thank you, Mr. Horvath. And Mr. Battelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u309	Thank you very much, President. First of all, procedurally, there is no alternative to reduced procedures as we have done. Otherwise, the contents of this amendment were known three minutes after the idea of making a reasonable contribution was born. However, the debate accompanying it confirms the correctness of its content.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u310	Thank you. Mr. Grimes, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u311	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you! See, the Constitution sets out some principles of co-existence, co-existence in ours, I hope and I am sure, a common country of Slovenia. The adoption of such an amendment as is before us today would mean a derogation from some of these principles and, in my firm belief, would even be unconstitutional. As a result, I would also like to join my colleagues who are calling for this amendment to withdraw. However, as long as you do not make this proposal, I will, of course, vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u312	Thank you, Mr Grimes. Mr. Slavinac.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u313	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honors are here! I'm also very surprised at the content of this tabled amendment. If you could read it in amazement quickly, you might even think that they never want to wear out flags. But then I immediately remembered the celebrations that are already taking place, I can say about the national mixed area where the Hungarian minority lives, and I have never felt threatened in any way, or that my feelings are affected, because in these areas all the texts of all the celebrations are translated into Hungarian, which I do not understand. I also expect from this point of view that the Hungarian minority has no reason to be affected and feel threatened in any way. But if we can celebrate together with them, I see no reason why this holiday would be so much more controversial. I point out one fact that Hungarians can certainly celebrate with us more significantly than the Hungarian Slovenes with Hungarian holidays. And the very good experience that we have developed in the area of bilinguality and minorities in Slovenia should be an example and an example of how we can take care of our minorities in Italy and Hungary, of course even more in Austria. Hungarians and Italians have more rights with us than Slovenians, and so is the case. But I expect them to be aware of it, appreciate it and respect it. As a result of this amendment, I cannot support it either.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u314	Thank you, Mr. Slavinz. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Battelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u315	In my opinion, this law is one that deviates from the constitutional principles that have led from independence and has led to a period of time before. As to whether we appreciate it or not. I don't know why I'm constantly in a position to convince anyone new to come of the facts that come from my own life. I don't have any accounts here for any of this. And so are my countrymen. These two national communities created an independent Slovenia. So did they! And this holiday is only a holiday for some Slovenes. Not for all Slovenes, either. That's a fact. And how it happened, and so do I. This is a reaction to some laws that have been passed in some other countries. And there was no need now to irritate everything with such suggestions. That was already said. The existing laws, when the flags are outnumbered, which has been the subject of double and triple debates in the Constitutional Court, with public debates in the Constitutional Court, have been clarified how and what. And these flags rise for the day of statehood, for the day of independence, for the day of rebellion against the invaders, who are known exactly who they were. And my father Italian fought these invaders and was imprisoned, tortured and sentenced to death. And he got rid of it because he was lucky - and I don't sell it any further. And as for the attitude towards Slovenia; I feel what's going on here. I hope I have more respect than a lot of people who consider themselves Slovenian. And it's been my whole life's journey, and nothing's gonna stop me from doing that. And the flag of the national community hangs even when it is - and it is right that it is so - a Slovenian cultural holiday, on Prešeren's day. I hope I've made myself clear.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u316	Thank you, Mr. Battelli. Mr. Jelinčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u317	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, in terms of clarity, I would not say that my colleague Battelli was very clear, but I heard something between the lines when he said that some laws had been passed in some other countries and perhaps other times, which leads me to believe that perhaps Mr Battelli denied the legacy of the Republic of Slovenia after Yugoslavia, and I would remind him that even his original country Italy had ratified all agreements and recognised Slovenia as the successor of the former Yugoslavia.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u318	Thank you, Mr. Jelinčich. I don't think they've been reported for debate anymore, so we're moving on to the vote on the amendment. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, who voted in favour of 2 votes against 61. [[You voted for two.]] [[Against 61.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We're done deciding on the amendments. On the basis of paragraph 5 of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the legislature and the Government have not informed me that the law on the grounds of the amendments adopted would be inconsistent. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. Anybody want to explain their voice? Mr. Kontic, on behalf of the House of Representatives?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u319	In my own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u320	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u321	Although the proposed amendment to the law does not introduce the proposals I made in the proposal a few years ago and I have proposed that the day of independence be celebrated on the day of the plebiscite performance and that the cultural holiday is celebrated on the day of France Prešern's birth and not on the day of death, I will certainly support this amendment of the law. At the same time, with this explanation, I would express my feelings about the celebration of the festival that we are now law - abiding. While observing a good celebration in Portorož, I noticed that the Italian Nationality Community, which is the national component of this space, had slightly fallen out of the script, and perhaps because of this, the experiments we had witnessed earlier with the amendment. This is not to be overlooked by the historical fact that many Italian fighters and fighters participated in the liberation of Primorska. Let him mention only the fighters and fighters of the Istrian squad and the Garibaldi brigade, which acted in the composition of the 9th Corps. And since it is very difficult to order the celebrations of the festivals by law, it is particularly necessary to prepare carefully the contents of the festivals, which are to be linked and will contribute to the fact that it will be our holidays, which we will respect and not lastly celebrate, in the way that we will hang our flag, which many times on individual buildings, unfortunately, is still not visible.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u322	Thank you, Mr. Kontic. Explanation of the vote, Mr Jerovšek, on behalf of the Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u323	Your Honor! I am proud to consider the adoption of this law, which sets out three new holidays, which mark the great acts and great personalities of our history. I am sure that this will also be a guide for our young generations, because they will be able to feed on the sources of the Slovenia that we mark with these holidays. This also interrupts the practice of silence and minimization within the local framework of some important events from Slovenian history. I know that in Slovenian history there are still many important events and important personalities, historical personalities, which should also be properly remembered and marked. However, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we believe that national holidays and commemorative days must be kept within some modest framework, so that we do not cause inflation in this area. And by adopting this law, which in such an appropriate way marks the actions of the past, mean the actual realization of the United Slovenia, I think we have done so in a very appropriate way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u324	Thank you, Mr. Jerovska. Mr. Znidarsich. On behalf [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u325	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Of course, I'll be happy to support this marriage. And I'm saying that I'm going to do it anyway, to do it anyway, and that I was wrong to vote on the amendment of the national communities, and I'm saying here publicly that it wasn't my intention to support the amendment, but I just pressed the wrong button in haste. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u326	Thank you, Mr. Znidarsic. Is there any other explanation? Mrs. Pechanova.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u327	I'll support this marriage, too. First of all, because after many years of negotiations, talks, among other things, the mayors of the municipalities with the whole of Primorska signed a proposal three years ago to introduce this holiday as a holiday for all Primors. Even those who moved to this area only after we were born. I would also like to say again that I am pleased to say that, at least symbolically, the first informal celebration took place on September 15th, which is the anniversary of the adoption of a special decision on the accession of Primorska to the homeland, which was adopted by the Supreme Front of the Liberation Front on September 16, 1943, which means that great people have decided on major actions long before we decide when and what holiday will be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u328	Thank you, Mrs. Pecans. There's another explanation. Gulich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u329	Honourable Presidents, Honourable Members and Members. I will, of course, support the marriage. However, I would like to say a few things about why I support him. In fact, I support it in order to hear anything about these holidays in general, not only when it is a celebration, and that one part of this patriotic, of course, is kept within some normal, human, human boundaries. Now go on the road and ask people if December 26 is a day of state or a day of independence. And you will learn how with our holidays, with our celebrations and with our relationship to a very close history, and, of course, to those more distant. And I think, of course, the task is not only of the national assembly and of all of us as individuals, but also of talking more about why we are celebrating something. Of course not to the detriment of everyone else who lives here with us in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u330	Thank you, Mr. Gulic. Mr. Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u331	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will give a brief opinion on behalf of the Group of Members. The parliamentary group of Social Democrats will support the new holiday law, it is said that we will support four, in fact four new holidays, not just three, as is said in this Chamber and in the media. We will support the merger of the Premurese Slovenians with the people of origin, we will support the return of Primorska to her homeland, the day of Rudolph Maister and also the day of independence and unity. All four holidays, I guess. I would also like to say that it is nice and right that the government has proposed this; but that the holiday of the return of Primorska to the homeland was signed by the Members of the Social Democrats in 1997, together with almost all the individual representatives of all the parliamentary parties in the National Assembly, but unfortunately the parliamentary procedure was not as successful as it is today. And that we were actually Members of the Social Democrats this year who also proposed a new fourth holiday, a day of independence and unity. For all these reasons, today we will also support the law proposed by the Government, and I hope that all these events will be properly organised and honored next year.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u332	Thank you, Mr. Bevk. Mr. Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u333	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I am glad that the government has introduced this law into the National Assembly. I am glad that he has also received such a complete complement. In this place, I thank all the co-signatures of the amendment and all those who have supported the amendment on the Committee and have expressed a positive opinion and approval in the debate today. I claim that the three new holidays will make a significant contribution and mark a significant mark in some way the growth of the Slovenian national body. Surely, though, there are many tasks ahead of us in the area of patriotic education. Let's start today! I'd be happy to support the marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u334	Thank you, Mr. Horvath. Mr. Jelinčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u335	Thank you very much. There is no doubt that we will support this law. We are particularly pleased because the Slovenian National Party was the one who proposed and justified 15 September as a day to be celebrated. And every honor to the government that has adopted this law. When our marriage was rejected, the government said that it would take into account our opinions in a complex marriage. She really took it into account, she kept her word, but in fact she respected the arguments of history, the arguments of those who knew things that know things and that have something to do with the Slovenian people and their history. I think it's a nice day today, and once again, we'll be happy to support the marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u336	Thank you, Mr. Jelinčich. I note that there are no more votes to explain the vote, so we are moving on to a vote. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 63 votes against none. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to ratifications, first of all to 23. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on Ratification of the Agreement on Cooperation between the United Nations Industrial Development Organization and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Administrative Agreement on Special Assignments to the Industrial Development Fund. Since no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body under the second reading, there is no debate on articles and amendments, so we are moving on to the third reading, that is to decide on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present, 56 votes against none. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. We're moving on to 24. Agenda item - Defence proposal for a law on the ratification of the Convention on the Determination of a State Responsible for the defence of asylum applications lodged in one of the Member States of the European Communities. Since no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body under the second reading, there is no debate on articles and amendments, so we are moving on to the third reading, that is to decide on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 55 votes against 1. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 25. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on the Ratification of the Convention between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Korea on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in relation to income taxes. Since no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body under the second reading, there is no debate on articles and amendments, so we are moving on to the third reading, that is to decide on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 56 votes against none. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one's against it.]] I note that the law has been adopted and thus I conclude this item on the agenda. We're moving on to 26. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of Romania on mutual assistance in customs matters. Since no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body under the second reading, there is no debate on articles and amendments, so we are moving on to the third reading, that is to decide on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, 57 votes against none. [[The vote was 57.]] [[No one's against it.]] I note that the law has been adopted and thus I conclude this item on the agenda. I'm moving on to 27. Agenda item - Defence proposal for a bill on the ratification of the 1997 Protocol to the 1997 Convention on the Extension of Air to Large Distances across borders with regard to the monitoring of emissions of nitrogen oxides or their transboundary fluxes. Since no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body under the second reading, there is no debate on articles and amendments, so we are moving on to the third reading, that is to decide on the proposal for a law. We're voting. 61 Members and Members present, 61 votes against none. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[No one's against it.]] I note that the law has been adopted, and thus I conclude this item on the agenda. We're moving to 28. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Slovak Republic on mutual assistance in customs matters. Since no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body under the second reading, there is no debate on articles and amendments, so we are moving on to the third reading, that is to decide on the proposal for a law. We're voting. 61 Members and Members present, 61 votes against none. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 29. On behalf of the President of the Council of the European Union, the President of the European Union, the President of the Council, the President of the Council, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President of the President, the President, the President, the President, the President of the President, the President, the President, the President and the President of the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the That is why we are moving on to the third reading, to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. 59 Members and Members present, 59 votes against none. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed law has been adopted and therefore I conclude this item on the agenda. We're moving on to 30. On behalf of the President of the European Union, the President of the Council, the President of the European Union, the President of the Council, the President of the Council, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President, the President and the President, the President, the President, the We're voting. 59 Members and Members present, 59 votes against none. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed law has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 31. POINT OF THE DAY’S LINE - TO DEFINITIVELY PROPOSAL OF THE RATIFICATION OF THE CONVENTION BETWEEN THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA AND THE REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY ON THE ELIMINATION OF DOUBT COOPERATION AND THE PREVENTION OF DUTIES IN CONTRIBUTIONS WITH REGARD TO REVENUE AND REVENUE TAXES. As no amendment was adopted by the parent working body under the second reading, there is no debate on articles and amendments. That is why we are moving on to the third reading, which is the decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. 58 Members and Members present, 58 votes against none. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the law has been adopted, and thus I conclude this item on the agenda. And we're moving on to 32. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on trade relations and cooperation between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. As no amendment was adopted by the parent working body in the context of the second reading, there is no debate on articles and amendments. That is why we are moving on to the third reading, which is the decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 59 Members and Members present. 56 votes against 3. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the law has been passed. And that concludes this agenda item. And we're moving on to 33. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on the Ratification of the Agreement on Cooperation between the European Community and its Member States on one side and the Swiss Confederation on the other side in the fight against golf and all other illegal acts affecting their financial interests with a summary list. As no amendment was adopted by the parent working body in the context of the second reading, there is no debate on articles and amendments. That is why we are moving on to the third reading, which is the decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 60 Members and Members present. There were 60 votes against. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] I note that the law has been adopted, and thus I conclude this item on the agenda. And we're moving on to 34. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in connection with income and property taxes. Since no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body under the second reading, there is no debate on articles and amendments, so we are moving on to the third reading, that is to decide on the proposal for a law. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 60 Members and Members present. 56 votes against 4. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against four.]] I note that the law has been adopted, and thus I conclude this item on the agenda. And we're moving on to 35. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on Ratification of the International Treaty on Plant Genetic Resources for Food and Agriculture. Since no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body under the second reading, there is no debate on articles and amendments, so we are moving on to the third reading, that is to decide on the proposal for a law. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 60 Members and Members present. There were 60 votes against. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed law has been adopted and therefore I conclude this item on the agenda. We're moving to 36. THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA, CZECH REPUBLIC, CZECH REPUBLIC, FRENCH REPUBLIC, CZECH REPUBLIC, CZECH REPUBLIC, CZECH REPUBLIC, CZECH REPUBLIC, CZECH REPUBLIC, CZECH REPUBLIC, CZECH REPUBLIC, CZECH REPUBLIC, CZECH REPUBLIC, CZECH REPUBLIC, CZECH REPUBLIC, CZECH REPUBLIC, CZECH REPUBLIC, CZECH REPUBLIC, CZECH REPUBLIC, CZECH REPUBLIC, CZECH REPUBLIC, CZECH REPUBLIC, CZECH REPUBLIC, CZECH REPUBLIC, CZECH REPUBLIC, CZECH REPUBLIC, CZECH REPUBLIC The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a parent working body. I give the floor to the chairman of the Committee, Joseph Jerovšk, to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u337	Dear Mr. President! Dear government officials! Dear colleagues and colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Atanassov, Ambassador of the Republic of Bulgaria and Mr Chijudeja, Ambassador of Romania to the Republic of Slovenia, who joined us on the balcony and I welcome them. [[Let's hear it.]] Your Honor! Ratifications usually take place without discussion, but at this ratification only allow me a few words. At its 7th regular meeting last Thursday, the Committee on Foreign Policy discussed and supported the draft law on the ratification of the accession treaty between Bulgaria and Romania to the EU. Today, however, the law needs to be adopted by the National Assembly, as before Bulgaria and Romania's accession to the EU, the Accession Treaty must ratify all EU Member States and the acceding countries themselves in accordance with national constitutional procedures. In April this year, when we considered the position of the Republic of Slovenia towards the signing of the accession treaty, all the parliamentary groups supported the proposal for a position of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, thereby signing the accession treaty, and I believe that this will be the same today when we adopt the ratification law, which we have to confirm in accordance with the Constitution by a two-thirds majority vote of all Members. I am not going to talk about the content of the treaty itself, because there was something quite said about this at the time of the adoption of the position on signature. I would just like to emphasise that the accession and full membership of Bulgaria and Romania in the EU are important for both Europe and Slovenia. With this enlargement, which is actually due to take place on 1 January 2007, the European idea continues to expand eastward. This shows that it is taking the enlargement process seriously, which is particularly important for countries that are only at the beginning of the approximation process. For the enlargement of the European Union is a long-term process that will undoubtedly continue despite some of the dilemmas facing the Union today. With Romania and Bulgaria's membership in the European Union, the area of peace and stability in the Balkans is expanding. The Communication on the European perspective for the Western Balkan countries is still important for stabilising the situation in the region and, I hope, a new impetus for the Western Balkan countries to bring them closer to the European idea. Finally, I would like to mention bilateral relations between Slovenia and Bulgaria or Romania. It is a very good relationship that is not burdened with open questions. There is an intense political dialogue between countries at the highest levels, we are joined by common objectives and interests, a good knowledge of the Western Balkans and South-Eastern Europe region and a desire to stabilise and democratise the area. Although Bulgaria and Romania do not belong to Slovenia's largest external trading partners, they represent an important potential economic partner of Slovenia. The Bulgarian and Romanian markets are strategically important for Slovenia mainly from the perspective of Slovenian investments abroad, as the interest of the Slovenian economy in investment in these two countries is growing year after year. However, the accession of both countries to the European Union will undoubtedly have a positive impact on economic cooperation between Slovenia and the two countries. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Foreign Policy supported the proposal for a law on ratification and I propose that we do so with the necessary majority today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u338	Thank you, Mr. Jerovska. As no amendment was adopted by the parent working body in the context of the second reading, there is no debate on articles and amendments. That is why we are moving on to the third reading, which is the decision on the proposal for a law. At the same time, I would like to point out that, on the basis of Article 3a of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, if two thirds of the Members vote for it, that is 60 or more. Anybody want to explain their voice? Mr. Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u339	On this occasion, I would like to say, on behalf of both the Group of Members and on my own behalf, that we are extremely pleased to be able to support this bill. In fact, to welcome this proposal to the European Union, at least as far as Slovenia is concerned, the Republic of Bulgaria and Romania, and thus to round up the enlargement process of the European Union, which started somehow with the transition process throughout Europe. I hope that this process will continue, and I will therefore be happy to confirm it today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u340	Thank you, Mr. Squeakle. Anybody else want to explain their voice? Mr. Aurelio Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u341	On behalf of the Group of Members. The Social Democrats will also be pleased to support the ratification law, particularly because the enlargement process has gone into some trouble because of the constitution, because of the financial perspective, because of the concerns of the European Member States as well, whether the European Union should extend to Turkey and so on. It is our duty to deal with such problems as little as possible and to allow the enlargement process to continue. Let's think about how it would have been in the European Union when it was decided on our destiny. And if we think about it, I think we will give a unanimous vote and a pleased vote to the law on ratification and, of course, welcome to colleagues from Romania and Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u342	Thank you, Mr. Yuri. Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u343	Thank you very much. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are pleased that the time has come when the Republic of Bulgaria and Romania will also become legal and legal members of the EU. We will do so by ratifying the accession treaty today, and by this ratification and enlargement of the Union towards the east we send important messages to the European East, because the European perspective is what democratises non-EU countries, and thus the area of peace and cooperation spreads across Europe. We are particularly pleased that two friendly countries with Slovenia with which Slovenia is developing cross-cutting contacts have no open issues, so we are confident in the Slovenian Democratic Party that their accession to the European Union will further strengthen this cooperation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u344	Thank you, Mr. Jerowski. Mr. Bones.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u345	I, too, on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members and also on behalf of the European Union Affairs Committee, would like to note and declare our support for the proposal for a law on the ratification of the Treaty between the Kingdom of Belgium and all Member States of the European Union and the Republic of Bulgaria and Romania. On the basis of our experience of joining the European Union, we know how important it is for post-communist countries to enter the European Union, how much it helps to continue democratisation and the general development of the country. And, of course, we both want a successful entry and further development. In doing so, I would point out, of course, that Bulgaria and Romania are also a signal for the European Union's recent problem, also related to enlargement, which I believe will enable other issues, including those related to the European Constitution, to be resolved successfully.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u346	Thank you, Mr. Kokal. And Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u347	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. A warm welcome is given to the ambassadors on the balcony on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. I must say that we will gladly confirm ratification and are pleased to see that the country has made an important path of adapting and democratising both countries. I congratulate them in advance and, on behalf of the Group of Members, we guarantee all the votes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u348	Thank you, Mr. President. Because there are no more reports of Mr. Jelinčič. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u349	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We also join the Slovenian National Party both in favour and in congratulatory votes. In fact, why would Slovenia be the only one in this "zos" called the European Union. Let the others come in.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u350	Thank you, Mr. Jelinčich. We're moving to the vote. I would like to remind you that, on the basis of Article 3a of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the law will be adopted if it is voted for by 2/3 Members, which is 60 or more. We're voting. [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] There are 64 Members and Members present, 64 votes against none. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. On behalf of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, I congratulate the Ambassador of the Republic of Bulgaria, His Excellency Vladimir Atanassov, and the Ambassador of the Republic of Romania, His Excellency Victor Chijude, who is accompanying the meeting of the National Assembly. That concludes this point. We are moving on to the continuation of the 3rd item of the agenda - to the third reading of the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Administrative Fees. On Tuesday 27.9.2005, the National Assembly held a second reading of the bill. As amendments have not been adopted to the draft law, we are moving, in accordance with Rule 193 of the Rules of Procedure, to a decision on the law. On the basis of paragraph 5 of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the legislative and legal services and the government have not warned me that the law would not be harmonised due to the amendments adopted. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, 31 for them, against no one. [[The vote was 31.]] [[No one.]] I note that the law has been adopted and thus I conclude this item on the agenda. We are moving on to the continuation of the 4th item of the agenda - the third consideration of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the School Inspection Act. On Tuesday 27.7.2005, the National Assembly held a second reading of the draft law. As amendments have not been adopted in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, we are moving on to a legislative decision. In this regard, I inform you that the amendments adopted at the meeting of the parent working body have resulted in a disagreement with Article 12. To this end, the Government has submitted a harmonisation amendment to Article 12, which you have received on the bench. Would you like to speak to a government representative about the harmonisation amendment? No, no, no. Do Members and Members want the word? No, no, no. Since no one wants to discuss it, we are moving on to a decision on the harmonisation amendment. We are voting on the Government's harmonisation amendment to Article 12. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, 60 of whom voted against none. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. Mrs. Potrat, or on behalf of the Group of Members? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u351	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. The law that we adopt is actually made up of a number of different content sets. In the part where it means complying with the legislation already adopted, the Social Democrats support it. Unfortunately, this law also has some such solutions, which we think will reinvigorate inspection and thereby reduce the quality of services in those areas where we think it would be right to have regular inspections carried out to the extent that it is so far. Most of the comments and the reason why we will not support the law are related to Article 4. In fact, this is a conceptual amendment to the Law on Inspections, School Inspection, because in the debate offered, both at the committee and at the meeting of the National Assembly, an amendment that did not interfere so strongly with the concept of law was not supported. It is simply that we are essentially setting up an unusual situation by means of this amendment when we have the opportunity to carry out expert opinions on the school inspection, also transmitted to individual institutions, public institutions which do not have these tasks in their statutes. We have proposed that expert opinions could be obtained from individuals from individual institutions. Regrettably, it has happened that some of the institutions that have evolved from being amphibians once, so to say that they have combined the advisory and inspection function, have been able to separate themselves from the inspection function at that time, and this is a function that we are re-assigning to them. This is a step backwards compared to legislation, as is usually the case in other European countries. And we do not intend to participate in this step back to the Social Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-09-29-SDZ4-Redna-09.ana.u352	Thank you, Mrs. Patrati. Any other wishes for an explanation? No, no, no. Then we vote. The vote is under way. 62 Members and Members are present. 42 votes against 15. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 15.]] I note that the assembly has fully adopted the proposed law. I hereby conclude this agenda item. And we are moving on to a follow-up to the 6th item of the agenda - the third consideration of the proposed law on amendments and additions to the law on foreigners. On Tuesday 27.9 the National Assembly held a second reading of the bill. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, we are moving, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, to a decision on the law. On the basis of paragraph 5 of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the legislative and legal services and the government have not warned me that the law would not be harmonised due to the amendments adopted. We are moving on to a full vote on the law. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 58 Members and Members present. 54 votes against 3. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. And we are moving forward with the 7th item of the agenda - the third consideration of the proposed law on amendments and additions to the law on the Court Registry. On Tuesday, 27.9.2005, the National Assembly held a second reading of the bill. As amendments have not been adopted to the draft law, we are moving, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, to a decision on the law in its entirety. On the basis of paragraph 5 of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the legislative and legal services and the government have not warned me that the law would not be harmonised due to the amendments adopted. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 60 votes against none. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the 9th item of the agenda, the third reading of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Firearms Act. On Wednesday, 28.9.2005, the National Assembly held a second reading of the bill. As amendments have not been adopted to the draft law, we are moving, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, to a decision on the law in its entirety. On the basis of paragraph 5 of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the legislative and legal services and the government have not warned me that the law would not be harmonised due to the amendments adopted. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 60 votes against none. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I am adjourning the 9th session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. In doing so, I remind you to look again at the rules of the sitting and entering the Chamber, as you have been informed, for the confidentiality of the information to be dealt with at the meeting.
