ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen. Dear Minister, Mr. Government Representative, distinguished guests. I begin the 7th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia convened by the President of the National Assembly on the basis of Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. They informed me that they were detained and that today's meeting could not be attended by the Member and Members. So only Members: Mr Ambassador Mag. Milan M. Cvikl, Mr Ferri Horvat, Mr Matjaž Švagan and Mr Roberto Battelli. I have invited representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, as we say, among us is Minister of Public Administration, Dr Virant, and I welcome all those present once again. We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 7th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which is quite short, at least at first glance, prepared in accordance with Rule 58(2) of the Rules of Procedure and received by reference to the meeting. I have not received any proposals for extending the agenda, so we are moving on to setting the agenda. But before I ask you, would anyone like to explain their vote before we vote on this single agenda item? Mr. Anderlich, please. On behalf of the Group of Members or on a case-by-case basis?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u2	In the Liberal Democracy Club, we object to the inclusion of this, so to speak, as the only item on the agenda of an extraordinary meeting, irrespective of the right of authorised applicants to request an extraordinary meeting. It is simply that the reduced procedure does not yet constitute a necessary procedure and it is possible that, in the future programmes under way in the National Assembly, such points are dealt with following a reduced procedure, especially because the law, which is so proposed for consideration on the agenda, is so important that it cannot be amended in such a way overnight. I would like to draw attention to the fact that legislation in the field of public administration, public servants and the whole range of these laws actually lasted ten years, in the framework of the Ministry or Government there in 1992, 1993 a team of experts also worked with the assistance and funding of the European Union to adapt our administration and, of course, also the law on public servants. And that this decade of planned work, in-depth studies, comparisons and finally adopted legislation have eliminated all those concerns, the warnings that the European Union has also addressed to the State of Slovenia on an annual report to finally adapt the regulation in the field of state administration with modern legislation, with comparable rules in the European Union or with the relevant directives. Therefore, it does not seem right to us that, after we have finally set a limit between the political ones and those who must be appointed by procedure and in the manner of equal access to professions, services to all citizens and citizens who meet these conditions, but not exclusively political criteria, we therefore believe that this law should be dealt with in one way or another in a regular manner. But if we can't deal with it on a regular basis, and certainly, if it's short, not overnight, as it is now. We will therefore vote against the agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u3	Thank you, Mr. Anderlich. Would anyone else like to explain their vote either as a representative of the parliamentary group or on their own behalf? I'm guessing there's no one. Therefore, I propose to the assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda, as you have received by reference. We're voting. The vote is closed. There are 67 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 21. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 21.]] I note that the agenda for the 7th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly is set. We're moving on to one. POINT OF THE DAY’S LINE - TO CONDUCT THE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE LAW ON PUBLIC SERVICES - A SHORT PROCEDURE. For the total time of discussion, 8 hours and 5 minutes shall be allocated. As you know, the draft law for consideration by the assembly was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, so I give the floor to its representative, Mr Minister Gregor Virant.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Public Servants Act, which was adopted in 2002 and started to apply in June 2003, was a step forward in the development of the Slovenian public administration and also had an impact on the European Commission's positive assessment of Slovenia's progress in this area. The law introduced new standards for the performance of staff resources, such as the annual discussion with the staff member, the annual performance assessment, the regulation of tendering procedures for official posts and thus increased transparency in the selection process. He introduced the obligation to conduct a professional examination for anyone entering the official service, which would undoubtedly have an impact or already had an impact on improving the professionalism of the public administration. He also introduced systematic human resources planning and on this basis adopted the first human resources plan, which envisaged even a reduction in the number of employees in the administration. The law has given special attention to key positions in public administration. So-called "top management." These are situations that are extremely important, which are particularly important for the good functioning of the public administration, and at the same time the people in these positions form the closest management team in the ministries, or government services, with which the Prime Minister and ministers are closely involved in the preparation and implementation of government policy. So the managers in key positions in the state administration are an integral part of a management team that directly cooperates with the Prime Minister, the Minister or the Secretary-General of the Government. The law has set up a system that ensures a high level of competence and professionalism in key public administration positions while at the same time enabling the Prime Minister and the Minister to choose the one with whom he wishes to cooperate among the competent experts. This is the basic concept of public servants law. From the very beginning. The first phase of the selection procedure thus includes an official council, a body in which the government has 4 representatives of a total of 12 members. So the government doesn't have complete control over this body. By August 2003, the Official Council had set high competent standards to be met by candidates for these jobs. With this, the management received a competent profile of the most important jobs and thus began to establish a competitive model typical of successful companies at the very top of the organisation, where this is also the most important. In the second phase of the selection procedure, the Prime Minister or the Minister shall, by law, have the option to choose his associate between candidates who have undergone checks of strict competent standards. It should be noted that the directors of the Directorates, the heads of the executive bodies acting within the Ministry or under the auspices of the Ministry and the Secretaries-General, are part of the Minister's closest management team and that it is therefore perfectly normal and comparable to the practice in enterprises that the Minister has the final say in the selection. I myself wrote in a comment to the Law on Public Servants when it was adopted: "The officials in those positions, in view of the progress of the management process, act as the closest co-workers of the official. Therefore, the functioning of the body would be hampered if there were personality or conceptual differences between them." The Minister shall be responsible before the National Assembly and the public for the functioning of his department and for the situation in his field. It should therefore be able to have a decisive impact on the selection of key co-workers. In the event of a poor operation of the department or operation contrary to the dominant public interest, the Minister shall not be able and shall not respond to his associates, as he shall be responsible for their work as well as for their results. No one will listen to the Minister's excuse, who will say, "The work in my field is bad because my colleagues are bad. I'm a good minister, but my associates are bad, but I can't replace them." The procedures prescribed by the Civil Servants Act provide for the possibility of the Minister to have a decisive impact on the selection of his closest associates, but the concept described in the Act is not fully implemented. In the event of the appointment of a new Prime Minister or a new Minister, it is possible to suspend cooperation with certain circles of managers in the Ministry and this is not possible in the second category. This is possible in the case of directors of the Directorates, but this is not possible in the case of heads of government services, with the secretaries-general of the ministries and with the heads of the body in the composition. The proposed novel compares the status of all categories of top officials in ministries and government services on this issue. Possible substitutions without false reasons, of course, do not mean suspension for political reasons or politicisation of public administration. Expectations that the possibility of a minister replacing an employee with whom he cannot or does not want to work automatically means politicisation are unjustifiable. In the event of a discharge, the procedure for appointing a new Director shall be re-examined through the Official Council. In other words, the current government or any future government will choose its directors in exactly the same procedure as the previous government has chosen. This needs to be demystified - talking about political and professional personnel. In fact, the former government has been setting up or selecting its co-workers, directors following a procedure that really means professional verification in the first stage, but the final decision on choice has always been made by the minister, the government has always had. So, the directors of the ministries have chosen the government. To talk about how the previous government has carried out or carried out these procedures by merely being professional, but not political, and the new government will carry out these procedures by not being professional or merely political, it is, from far away, an unfair observation. How will the law be implemented in practice? At the time of his appointment, each minister will interview a management team that he will inherit, if I may say so, and decide whether he will be able to cooperate with the individual members of this team. The will to cooperate must, of course, exist on both sides. In most cases, the inability to cooperate will be resolved through an amicable divorce, so that the possibility of discharge without any ground of guilt is the ultimate solution, which will not be affected very often. The knowledge that the director can be resolved when the government or minister is replaced will also have a positive impact on the culture of political neutrality, as each official will be aware that if he acts politically neutrally, without political exposure, he can continue his career with the next government. As I pointed out at the outset, the Civil Servants Act was a step forward in the development of the Slovenian public administration, and practice has shown, as usual, that the law is not ideal. After almost two years of use in practice, feedback has already shown where its faults are and where it will need to be corrected. The novelty that we are considering today is short. It contains, corrects all two articles of the law, which is more than 200 articles long, so it is only a minor amendment. This year, the government will also prepare more extensive amendments to this law, which will improve regulation at two key points, ensure greater flexibility of the human resources processes and increase the accountability of public administration officials, the position of public administration staff will be as much as possible equal to the position of private sector employees, in particular with regard to the possibility of dismissal for false reasons, for poor work and for business reasons. These options already exist but procedures are somewhat more complicated than in the private sector. With the amendment of members of all coalition parties, a new dimension is emerging: the exchange of officials in key positions at any time, not only in the first period after the new government or the new minister. The possibility of replacing without complex procedures increases the responsibility of people in these situations. Higher when someone in the hierarchy is greater must be his responsibility and less secure his position. With regard to the lower staff of the administration, there is already a possibility of moving to another post under the current law and no one has ever challenged it. There is no reason that the position of the highest officials would be privileged and that they would not be in the wind either. Such privilege or, as someone has said, the protection of "holy cows" can create a sense of injustice among employees. In these days, I have also received quite a few reactions from individual employees in the administration, including individual local, union centres, such as information or claims, stating that the amendments to this law support, although the Republican Committee is a union of workers of state and social bodies, this union still bears that name today, although the social authorities are of course no longer in agreement with individual members and local committees with the union's position. Which is also normal; i.e., the employees of the administration are over 34 000, but here we are talking about the category of approximately 60 state officials in the most important positions, and I wonder why the union has taken such a scrupulous stand for this very handful of government officials, when the possibility of moving from leadership to non-governmental jobs in all other positions in the administration, in the middle and lower management, of course, is already completely open under the law on public servants. The government has been given a mandate for change, and sometimes substantive changes also require a change in teams implementing the government programme, but of course the government is extremely interested that the key positions in the public administration are held by highly qualified professionals and good managers, which is a guarantee that the programme will be well implemented. And there's a lot of people like that on the board. The Prime Minister and ministers appreciate the professionalism and political neutrality of many directors, regardless of who put them in their seats. It is not important to put them in place, but it is important that the key cities are occupied by people of top competence who are willing to follow a government programme that predicts changes in many areas. An arrangement where the Minister, as the highest head of the Ministry, can have a decisive impact on the selection of his co-workers, including the replacement of associates in key places, is completely comparable to the economy. Each Director-General, each President of the Management Board in the company wishes to have the opportunity to also replace his/her fellow Member if he/she considers that they cannot cooperate, that they do not go together, that they work poorly and so on, without requiring a particularly complicated procedure. The government in its programme emphasises that the public administration must act as a service for citizens and businesses, that it must develop the quality of its services and that it must strive to satisfy its taxpayers. All public administration officials must be aware of this, and in particular those in the highest positions. Overprotection of these positions can cause a sense of irresponsibility if I can afford a lot of things, and no one can do anything to me except through complicated procedures where I can perform with my lawyers and defend myself with my employer before the matter comes to trial. This can also create bureaucratic fortifications and situations where the country is managed by bureaucrats and not by a government that has been given a mandate by citizens and citizens. And a few more words about the level of involvement of the director who would be relieved under this law. To those who have come to this position on a career path, i.e. on the path of a career within the state administration, the law ensures that the employment relationship continues at the highest level, the highest level of non-guideship. It'd be hard to talk about a lot of damage. Someone who's had a career in management and came to a place like this has to count on it not to be in this place forever. However, the law provides for the right of dismissal in future provisions for those who have come from outside. The government considers that this is a fair reward for shortening the mandate and that the solution, of course, offered by the law, is something completely different than, for example, the practice carried out by the government of Drnovška in 2000, when it resolved, degraded more than 10 high-ranking public officials in the administration for a number of rankings and drastically reduced salaries, so that most of them left the administration and these people, I must stress, have been given justice in court. So, theirs turned out right in court. If I can sum it up. The Novela regulates perfectly normal regulation of the status of top state officials, allowing for normal cooperation between the government and the highest state officials, which increases their responsibility and introduces arrangements, as is the case in the vast majority of European countries. That's why, of course, I'm counting on the government to support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u5	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister for Complementary Explanation. In view of the growing gap, I am obliged to point out that we would still calm the conversations a little bit and also point out that the use of mobile phones, at least as far as the conversations are concerned, is not permitted under our agreement. This is an obstacle to the discussion of the one who has the word. Thank you so much for your kind understanding. As usual, the draft law also addressed the labour force, the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice, and I am therefore asking the Committee president, Mrs Mojca Kucler Dolinar, to present the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Chairman. Hello, fellow Members, fellow Members, Mr Minister and everyone else! The Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice, at its 3rd emergency meeting, considered the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Civil Servants submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration after a reduced procedure. In its supplementary explanation, the representative pointed out in the introduction that the key professional position in the state administration is extremely important for the functioning of the state administration and the government and for the implementation of its programme. Therefore, many legal arrangements pay particular attention to these situations, in particular as to how these officials are selected and how they can be resolved. The claims that the proposed solutions constitute a significant deviation from the current concept of the law do not, according to the proposaler's opinion, hold. The representative also stressed that the proposed amendment does not lose its role, as new officials will be selected under the same procedure in the highest discharge positions, which, according to the proposal's opinion, will be rare and exceptional. The representative of the applicant also explained that the proposal does not affect the legal relationship in return and that the purpose of the proposal is also to extend the time limit for the professional examination to be carried out by officials in the event of non-compliance with certain conditions on the basis of transitional and final provisions. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service initially touched on the procedure for the adoption of the Law on Public Servants and drew attention to one of the reasons for the adoption of the law, on the principle that professional and political neutral public administration should be established. In terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system, and from a legislative and technical point of view, it has submitted individual comments to each article of the draft law on Article 1, paragraph 1, which introduces the possibility of dismissal for the Secretary-General of the Ministry and the Chief of Staff of the Ministry, points out the aspect of the introduction into the legal system, further raised the questions of the appropriateness of the amount of the discharge laid down in Article 83, paragraph 8, of the Act also for officials in the positions of the Director-General of the Ministry or the Chief Executive of the Authority in the composition, in view of the expectations and concluded contracts of employment as a fair distinction. It further proposed that the solution referred to in Article 1, paragraph 2, should be reconsidered, allowing the President, instead of the right of departure, an official who would cease to be in his post after paragraph 4, or who was dismissed under Article 83, paragraph 5, of the Act and who did not have the status of an official before his appointment, to provide in the same or the other authority a post in which the work was carried out in the title of the same stage. The representative of the Legal Service also stressed that it would suggest re-examination of the proposed solution referred to in Article 3, which provides that the amended Article 8(3) of the Law does not apply to officials who are in office when this law is implemented. The representative of the Union of State and Social Organs of Slovenia presented the joint opinion of the representative trade unions in the state administration, namely the Union of State and Social Organs of Slovenia, the Customs Union of Slovenia, the Trade Union of the Government and the Agency of Slovenia and the Police Union, and stated that they disagreed with the proposed amendments. During the discussion, the members and members of the Committee abstained most of the time in the debate, aimed at a key amendment of the draft law, which extends the possibility of discharge without fault to the Secretary-General of the Ministry and the Head of the Authority in the composition of the Ministry. Some very different views faced this and highlighted issues of public administration politicisation as key. Therefore, as arguments against it, it was argued that the Law on Public Servants, which was adopted, had reduced the possible political impact on the recruitment of officials in the highest positions and that, in the new instance, political compatibility could not be taken into account in the first place, as it was mainly important to carry out work in positions, that the social partnership was not taken into account and that the proposed solutions constituted an intervention in existing legal relations. However, those who agreed with the proposed solutions stated above all that the proposed solutions complement the law in force in order to align the highest officials in positions, since the former government is in the process of adopting the law without a reasonable reason under the regime governing [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u7	I'm warning you on time.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u8	without false grounds, excepted by the secretaries-general of the ministries and the heads-up; further, such a solution is also in most other European countries, that the law does not interfere with the legal relationship behind it and that there is no justification for strong opposition from trade unions. [[..]] The Committee adopted the amendment of the Group of Members [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u9	My colleague, it's been almost one minute.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u10	and Members with first-signed Rudolf Petan to Article 1, but did not accept the amendment of the United Nations Group of Social Democrats to Article 3. [[..]] In accordance with Article 126 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee therefore voted on the individual articles of the draft law and adopted all the articles. Thank you very much, and I apologize for this momentary lapse of time.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u11	Thanks, buddy. So, after the agreement I should have turned off the microphone a long time ago, but I didn't do it because of gentlemenship, because of course it will also have to be taken into account with other debaters, so please stick to the limited time. Everything in the spirit of democracy, as they say. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members, and I would like to invite Mr Miran Potč to present the position of the United List of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister Dr. Virant, colleagues and colleagues! In the Group of Members of the United Nations Social Democrats, we oppose the law. For us, it's systemic and politically unacceptable. In 2002, with effect from 1 January 2003, we introduced a new system of public servants in which we wanted to increase the professionalism, independence, high professionalism of the state administration and reduce its political dependence. Today we are working with this law in reverse; I am reducing its expertise, independence, professionalism of administration and significantly increasing its political dependence. This may be the case, but it is interesting that we have the same billmaker in 2002 or the same law advocate as this year. When he spoke as an expert, he was for professional, independent, high professional administration and for important interventions in until then too much politicisation, which was true, and today, when a politician is a minister, he feels differently. I think that's bad. It's just that it's a reality that needs to be told, and that's why all the explanations are serious only in the part where you do them in comparisons of interpretations today and three years ago. Otherwise, beautiful words are spoken that can be believed if they are not unilateral and unobjective. What is the content of the proposed law? The scope is increasing, and this is important at the level of the highest public officials, persons who can be dealt with in an inviolable manner. The arguments for this inviolable resolution are both explicit and political. However the government's representative, however the party's representatives are trying, and I must say that they are trying to say any other reason than political resolution, is always out of their minds politics, and it was also seen yesterday at the public appearance of the four parties, where it is again and again, when they are trying to tell what the reason should have been, and it is said that this is political inadequacy, political incompatibility, serving another policy, unwillingness to cooperate; in short, only unprovable domains, assumptions in the sphere of some subjective arbitral assessments, which, in the opinion of the right authority, will be those who will be considered as criteria for the important officials to be able to change, and those who should primarily implement the law, not those who are preparing it. These are completely all inspection services, all the other bodies in the structure, the police, the tax service and so on, that I do not explain any further. That's the weakness of the law. It is right to say that whatever the impression is made that the law does not have major interventions, that it will be right because of the way it is prepared and how it is argued that it has major consequences on the administration. All procedures relating to the reduced procedure have been violated with regard to the classification on the agenda. It is noted that if this is not done today and at this meeting, and if it is not possible at the next Thursday's meeting, the government will be able to resolve first so that this government will not be able to function. And then you say we exaggerate those who say that these messages will follow the same political logic from level one to level two, from level two to level three and so on. And there will be a whole board feeling that policy will become the policy that will be merciless and crucial to decision-making. That is why I think it is right and urgent to reconsider, in a better way, but not with such proposals to change the complex administrative system or the substance of the administrative system, but in particular to consider what will be done by interfering with the rights acquired, which also raises questions about constitutionality. That is why we will also completely oppose him, but we have prepared some amendments that, if adopted, would at least partially improve him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u13	Thank you, Mr. Potch. The position of New Slovenia will be presented by Mrs Mojca Kucler Dolinar. The word is yours.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u14	Thank you very much again, once again. It appears that the law on civil servants has been followed by extraordinary meetings. In 2002, the law was passed at the 20th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly, members of the New Slovenia Law at the time did not support it, since in Novi Slovenija we considered that the law had not yet been systematically added to the extent that it could be effectively placed in our legal space. And that's what we're looking at. Now the law is before us, and we must face the problem of law enforcement. In addition, the actions of the former ruling coalition have helped. There is nothing wrong with the fact that New Slovenia has also warned the previous government that a good year before its mandate expires, it should not rush into launching and issuing calls for many positions of directors of executives, as it will somehow force the co-workers of the next government - any kind. The elections turned out to be our government. In doing so, it should be pointed out that some lower officials are interchangeable under the existing law, but not the same for officials in higher, key positions. By approving this novel, the possibility of discharge will be extended for non-criminal reasons. With Novi Slovenija, we are not afraid of the professionalism of any newly appointed individuals, each leader will gather professional people for his own interests, and after the proposed regime, the system of professional verification within the commissions and the official council is maintained. And it is only among the candidates who successfully stop, i.e. with qualified candidates, that the selection of a minister or government may be made. However, in the case of New Slovenia, we believe that, because of the coordinated functioning of the system, an expert must follow the policy outlined, let it be the policy of an economic society, a public institution, a society and thus the policy of a country for which every government is responsible and responsible. If the Minister is unable to cooperate effectively with the narrowest circle of people in terms of meeting the objectives he has set, because the individual official, although under some cover of neutrality, continues to serve someone else, it is necessary to act on New Slovenia's position as soon as possible; also by addressing the proposed changes following a reduced procedure by calling for an extraordinary meeting. The proposed amendment to the Law on Public Servants will not cause anyone to lose his job. We will approach only the baseline in order to ensure that all officials in key cities are given the same possibility of getting rid of them. We also support a solution to remove uncertainty for all those who have not yet met the requirement of the previous provisions of the law, i.e. those who have not yet passed an appropriate professional examination to be carried out within two years of the application of the law. In New Slovenia, we do not support avoiding or avoiding this exam because it brings higher expertise to officials and, as a result, also in a more effective public administration, because whoever knows more works easier, faster, better, especially more professional and sovereign. At the same time, we are aware that individuals have been able to meet an increased volume of work during this two-year period and can only be admitted to the examination within certain deadlines. We therefore support the amendment to extend the period for the performance of the professional examination from two to three years. And also because of the latter, the convening of an extraordinary meeting is still justified. Members of the New Slovenia have also taken note of the fear expressed by the government that the existing system could lead to blockades in the functioning of ministries, to tensions between ministers and key officials and, consequently, that the political will of the people is reflected in elections, due to conceptual differences, lack of confidence in the practice of the state administration. Members of New Slovenia will support the amendment of the Law on Public Servants, because we want the State Administration to be a service for all citizens, for the welfare of employees in the state administration, who individually strive to do their job well, and how important it is that the system of state administration works in a coordinated and against one objective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u15	Thank you very much. This time, too, it took seconds, but we did it. I invite Ambassador Franz Kangler to present the position of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u16	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members. The Slovenian People's Party's Group will support amendments and additions to the Law on Public Servants, as it has also supported the proposal itself to follow a reduced procedure, since we were of the opinion that this is the content of only two articles that are changing. In 2002, when we participated in the coalition, we had already pointed out that it was necessary to allow the possibility of a new government suit, a government structure, to have the possibility that some people who are needed, because of their expertise and efficiency, who find themselves in their work to serve both government and government representatives, so that this possibility, the individual structures in the government, is left open to replace or replace a new expert in this area. At that time, however, our demands within the coalition were not heard. The fact is that these amendments and additions will in no way create personal rights and also the labour rights of all those who perform these functions today. Finally, the motioner proposed in Article 3 that, in Article 83, paragraph 8, we ensure these rights, which these officials had so far had, that they also retain and in no way will they be, in the same way as were violations of labour rights and also of human rights, when the new government has replaced many people, degraded and reduced their position, thereby affecting personal dignity and violating labour law. The fact is that the current legal situation makes it partly impossible for the government to choose its own people to follow the government's programme, and thus conceptually, compatible with its programme, to cooperate with the government. This must enable the government to work effectively and quickly, and above all it is necessary for the state administration, and above all the highest staff, to work quickly, effectively and above all legally. The fact is that we have also witnessed that we received a certified letter recently with the signature of a former state official which revealed certain activities and activities during the Bajuk government and in what way and under what pressure individual officials were during that period. This indicates that when a minister and an individual official, an official, not at the programming and professional starting point, it is necessary to follow the opinion of each minister or government to allow such an official, an official, a senior official to move him to the same or similar position as he has done so far, in accordance with Article 43, paragraph 8. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will fully support the law, the amendments to the Law on Public Servants, and we will not support the two amendments tabled so far by the United Nations and the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u17	Thank you very much, Mr. Kangler. As a speaker, I invite Mr Saš Pečet to present the position of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u18	Your Honors are here! We are already in the debate today, and we will probably also hear a lot about the urgency of this bill and about the quality of the government if the law is to be adopted. On the other hand, we are likely to hear a great deal at the expense of the evil government and at the expense of political resolution and political appointment. In fact, at least according to the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, the law is only the result of last year's elections. The fact is that the elections have brought us to our country - for which we estimate in the National Party that it is right - a new government and a new way of working the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. According to our assessment, the executive branch of the authorities, i.e. the governments of the Republic of Slovenia, needs certain powers to carry out, carry out and carry out their tasks. It seems entirely clear to us that ministers or the Prime Minister, depending on the structure and hierarchy, must have certain powers, to the extent that citizens and Members and Members of Parliament are required to perform quality tasks and tasks arising from their work areas. According to our assessment of the third in the draft law before us today, in particular the mandate for human resources policy within the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and according to our assessment, this is also the only subject of the novel which is before us today. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia shall be responsible for the work of the executive branch of the Authority. So it is up to us Members and Members that the government, when rightly criticised, should be tried to direct it when we feel that a different solution would be better and better for citizens and citizens. On the other hand, or roughly speaking, this law allows, in combination with the government law, the Prime Minister to supervise the work of ministers and ultimately to be responsible for their work. On the other hand, the same is true of ministers, or they seek to choose their key associates, key subordinates, to create trust for them, and to create and implement a programme, as they set out in the elections. In the final stage, the government is the result of the elections that took place last year. All political parties have presented their vision of running the country, and there is no news as long as government parties are trying to create a government or government to create such an organisational form of government action that will enable them to implement the programme for which they have been given confidence in the elections. According to our assessment, the law or, in other words, the power of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to select key associates provides an opportunity to implement or implement the programme for which they have received the majority or confidence in the elections. According to our assessment, therefore, it would be naive or foolish to expect that, with the new government in our country, we will only get a new Prime Minister and new ministers. It is logical for individual ministers to choose their own people, and it is also logical for the opposition to try, when it does not agree with the measures taken by the government, the Prime Minister, the ministers, to point that out and criticise. To the extent that this follows, i.e. criticism, some goal, that goal, which should be in the interest of all of us in the 1990s and all of the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, so that we can take a step in the development not only of democracy, but a step higher to that level that we can say: yes, not only are we full members of the European Union based on paper, but also in the form and way of life. In the Slovenian National Party, of course, we do not oppose the law. The fact is that the Prime Minister would be able to choose his own circle of closest associates as an attempt to harm the government. But the fact is that Slovenia has only one government, this is the government we have today. In the National Party, we clearly understand the role of the opposition differently than that of the opposition, in that it is the task of all of us together to do something good for this country, and not only to try or criticize without purpose or purpose. Whether the opposition or criticism should always be subject to criticism, let us see what can be done together for the better tomorrow in this country. In the National Party, we will support the draft law and thus make it possible for the government to do better if it has drawn it up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u19	Thank you, Mr. Pache. I would like to take the floor with you, Mr Magi. Franca Žnidaršič to present the position of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u20	Dear President, Honourable Minister, Members and Members of Parliament! The Democratic Party of the Retired has spent quite some time drawing up a position in view of the changes and additions to the Law on Public Servants before us. There is no doubt that the existing law has drawn a line between professional and policy in order to ensure the highest possible degree of professional independence. You see, there are problems in this, because there is no pre-requisite guarantee that, for example, after professional references, the elected director of the body in the composition with the right to any political orientation in changing the political option on power would not behave more politically than professionally, which would undoubtedly not only harm the spirit but also the professional work. In other words, it is not only the expertise but also the loyalty of top state officials to the minister responsible for the individual department. The law adopted with a view to depoliticising the state administration had a good purpose, and the objective does not guarantee that recruitment is always possible more or less on the political line, if anyone likes it or not. I mean, of course, once the candidates of professional qualifications stop. As a result, the majority of our party's members feel that any minister who takes responsibility for his department should have the legal option of deciding that he should keep his staff in the highest positions if he is doing well, which he will certainly do with his common sense. Or they may be replaced if they find that relationships creak to the point that creative cooperation is impossible. This is not to be forgotten that such or other actions will have consequences in each subsequent election, especially for ministers, and less for the officials concerned. This is the main reason why we want to amend the law which, according to our majority belief in the past mandate, has been amended with too much optimism in the expectation that a decade can be changed overnight, in particular the practice of political adjustment. It is also not possible to overlook the fact that the proposed changes are being categorised without any need. There are thousands of people who are supposed to be replaced by a rapid procedure and without appropriate references at the top. Most citizens really don't care who's in any position. They're more interested in how they're going to live and what these people in positions are doing there. We are convinced that such governments have also ensured that the replacement will only be for a sample, for example, something 10, that they will also be in a newly established professional capacity and that there is no fear that replaced senior officials will suffer hunger or experience severe degradation in their profession. If it is different, the government must be aware that it will become increasingly difficult to believe in other things. There is also, of course, a thesis that is close to the truth in our view, which speaks of the fact that unstable positions should be avoided by everyone who would be overly affected by possible substitution because they cannot do anything that would be at least as valuable as a function. In the event that this amendment of the law renders the discharge of anyone constitutionally inadmissible, responsibility will undoubtedly go to the proposer, who should have previously cleared up this dilemma in many debates in this direction. For the above reasons, our parliamentary group will overwhelmingly support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u21	Thank you, Master Žnidarsich. I invite Mr Rudolph Petan to present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u22	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! The new government, which officially took over the business, swore on 3 December 2004, has also taken over a state of administration that accounts for almost 35,000 people, who in one way or another manages and directs the public sector with over 120,000 employees. In doing so, it is necessary to take into account that a large part of the economic sector is owned by the State, in a majority or in part. This means the government's great responsibility for the good functioning of this sector. The strategic orientations and views on the resolution and functioning of individual segments of the country must be uniform and unanimous. This requires ministers to have teams that are highly qualified, programme compatible, capable of communicating and cooperating and adopting optimal solutions for the country. The current power for its work is responsible for the citizens and the assessment of the satisfaction of its work is checked in democratic countries in the multilateral elections. The logic in this is simple: you've gained power and you could show what you can do, what you know and have fulfilled the pre-election program, you had leverage, that's power. If you haven't used one and you didn't have to do everything, it's your problem, it's still a bad excuse, not any mitigating circumstance. If you have co-workers with whom you cannot work, there is no normal communication with them, there is no compatibility of views on solutions, it is necessary for certain people to be replaced and placed in places where they will be useful and will not harm the state and the government in implementing its programme and will serve the citizens. The human resources problem is particularly evident after years of continuing power of one and the same political options and Slovenia is a typical school example for this. Such a situation can also lead to a corruption wheel. I can, I said. Moreover, despite the fact that voters in the October 2004 elections have been defined as amendments, legislation in this area is such that it prevents changes. Of course, it was prepared by an option that was constantly in power, and it also wanted to cement the existing state for centuries. But the voters demanded a change. Amendments to the legislation are necessary and necessary in the view of the SDS. The government team, which took responsibility for running the country 3.12.2004, does not have all the tools to work. The convening of press conferences for political accounting with its country ministers is not good, is harmful and unacceptable and is a poor example. If the director of the body in the composition can do so, anyone in the public administration or, if you want, in the public administration. The law is needed if the government wants to work legally, without shortcuts, or if we do not want the government to already have fenced brakes in the system. Any delayed day due to disagreements in management is harmful. Allowing such a state of composition by the government would be unacceptable, unrealistic and irresponsible. The vast majority of countries also have the situation in place so that certain staff exchanges are possible when the power is replaced, which is, of course, completely understandable. Of course, in our case, in a democratic way, it can be replaced by Members, the government, the President of the State, even in the economy, but only a few senior officials would not be able, as if they were autonomous and untouchable, and this replacement is only on a new proposal if the Minister does not find agreement with them to communicate only through the media. Even after a new choice remains through the official council, it is said as it has been so far - and nothing else. It should be stressed that the replacement of a few ten key people who have been recruited from one and the same policy option can bring even greater refreshment to the wind of long-term staffing. Human pluralism is not only welcome, but essential. Finally, citizens and citizens demanded this in the last elections! Procrastination with these changes is harmful for Slovenia, and opposition means perseverance in the elderly. We support these changes in the SDS. This is a condition for better work, but it will take a lot of will and effort to correct old errors. When it is perfectly normal that more than one political option can be won in elections, and when everyone can form the narrowest team to implement the winning programme, then we will no longer say politicisation of the state administration, because it employs more than one political option, then things will turn out on their own and then the atmosphere in the public administration will be better, probably also the results. In the SDS, we support a change of law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u23	Thank you, Mr. Petan. As a last resort to the word of the Member of the Magi. Anton Ropa to present the position of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u24	Dear Members and Members. The reform of the public administration that we have recently started in Slovenia is the result of a 12-year effort and knowledge of both the opposition and the positions of both the profession and the general public. With it we wanted to depoliticise and professionalise the public administration, we wanted to separate policy from the profession, ensure the professional autonomy of the organs in the composition and, more importantly, we wanted to encourage the creation of career management managers, so that even in the administration we could have quality managers, all of this in order to have better public administration, better supervision and better and faster services for citizens and citizens, so that the public administration would really become a service for citizens and businesses. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the essence of the reform of public administration and today we have before us its anti-reform. In the LDS, we are convinced that the amendment to the Law on Public Servants is significantly different from the concept of public administration reform, which we started in the previous term. It is clear from the so far public administration that the basic objective of the law is to politically motivate the replacement of very specific persons who hold leading positions in public administration, especially, and this is what is at issue in the bodies of ministries that do not take part in the current authorities, without any false reasons. Therefore, the novelty does not bring any other substantive improvements that would contribute to a more effective public administration. In particular, it opens the possibility that the first, which will be politically replaced by the new authority without finding fault, will be directly the heads of the bodies in charge of supervision. For example, inspectorates, customs, tax administration and the police. Let me remind you that it is precisely then that the opposition and the current minister have taken the most scrupulous stand for the exemption of the heads of organs in the composition, because they are in a special position because, according to the opposition and the current authorities, they guarantee equality before the law. Today, this handful of officials, officials, is just a handful of government officials, who are in no way different from the others. At that time the opposition and, of course, the author of the law also referred to the principle of political neutrality and EU standards. You forgot about that today. We cannot enforce or impose political compatibility criteria with the government for supervisors of the control programmes. This could lead to a situation that you yourself referred to as problematic on a number of occasions, and this is that, in the control process, in front of the police, both directors and supervisors, who carry out individual procedures through political party affiliation with those who would be in an individual procedure, would be connected to the tax administration. Therefore, the head of the supervisory authority has nothing to do with a private company that is on the market and cannot be equated. Public administration is not a private company, public administration cannot be subject to the privatisation of individual political options, parties or coalitions. And that's problematic in this proposal that we have here today. In particular, the task of the supervisory authorities is to exercise control over compliance with the legislation adopted by the legislative body and to act against the offenders, regardless of which political options they belong to. The proposed legal solutions therefore clearly deviate from this concept of political neutrality and the expertise of public administration. It is therefore important to stress that the adoption of the proposed novel effectively removes the professional autonomy and responsibility of the heads of bodies in the body and that part of this responsibility for professional work and neutrality is transferred to the government, the Prime Minister and the ministers. Let me also stress the unconstitutionality of the proposed solutions regarding confidence in law as an integral part of the rule of law, the right to a remedy and the prohibition of the retroactive application of legal acts. The proposed changes therefore represent a step backwards, so we believe that it would be good to consider such changes before they are enforced. In the LDS, we are convinced that we are only at the beginning of a story that will continue with concrete political cleansing under the pretext that the coalition is only making pre-election promises. The LDS Club will not support the bill because it opens the door to public administration politicisation and deviates from the concept of political neutrality and the expertise of public administration and contains solutions that violate the constitutional principle of trust in law, the right to appeal, the principle of the prohibition of retroactive application of rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u25	Thank you very much, Master Robby. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a second reading of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Servants. This is for discussion on individual amendments and articles of the amended bill. We will hold the debate on the basis of a review of the two amendments tabled. They were tabled today, the amendment was tabled by the United List of Social Democrats and the amendment was also tabled by the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Both amendments shall only be tabled in Article 1. You have a text in front of you, so I wouldn't repeat it without reading it. It may be correct to draw attention to a business provision at this point which states that the debate is bound by Article 1 and the amendments tabled. We have just held a general debate from the point of view. That's why I'm inviting you to the debate. Who wants to sign up? I suggest, given that there's no particular formalism here, that we go straight ahead and raise your hands. I'd just like to invite Mr. Runt to the floor. I repeat. Since this is a debate, I don't think it makes any sense. We'll take notes across the street. But, of course, we can do a normal circle, two. But I don't think that's necessary. Then raise your hand for the first round. Please. Again, Mr. Potch, I'm sorry. [[...]] [[A voice in the background.]] [[...]] Thank you very much. We've got the left, we've got the right, we've got someone in the middle. Okay. The so-called first round is written down. Mr. Potts, now you really are.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u26	Thank you very much. Say good-bye again! We have tabled an amendment with which, in the case of non-compliance with the content, objectives and consequences of the law, we try at least two points to make the law more appropriate in terms of its constitutional judgment. We are convinced that the law, as proposed, is constitutionally controversial, that it interferes with acquired rights, that it can be discussed, that it is contrary to the principles of the rule of law and that it is retroactive. In order to mitigate this, our first requirement is that, even when it comes to uncriminal resolution, a decision must be issued. A decision presupposes that, of course, it has all the ingredients that the decision must have, that it must have a legal basis, that it must have an explanation that it must have a legal education. The explanation must have some valid reasons, but not, as I said in the introduction on behalf of the parliamentary group, some unproven presumptions or arbitral judgment, which has so far been clear in all interpretations, including Mr Virant, and especially the representatives of the parties, yesterday at the press conference. The clear purpose is political compatibility, a clear purpose which was discussed yesterday in the debates, was, say, Mrs Kuclereva said today that the state administration should be the service of all. Very nice, very principled, I fully agree. Yesterday, however, she said that marriage was needed because it was necessary to ensure that these officials served the one who ran the ministry. I apologize, but those who serve the one who runs the ministry will serve the minister, and that does not mean that they will work professionally and that they will respect the law, work independently and independently. And that's a clear definition. Mr Petan made it very clear that, if politicisation had previously taken place, this politicisation must be balanced and that it is imperative that political people be compatible with the Minister at the top of the executive branch. It is therefore a matter of defining political compatibility. In Nova Slovenije, they directly said that according to New Slovenia, an expert should be such as to follow the Minister's policy, saying not that he will work legally, independently and independently, but that he will follow the Minister's policy. So all that was said for reasons was that it wanted to expand the circle of those who were becoming not in the first place experts, but political officials. All that was said was that this was an arbitrary opinion of the minister. But who can know in advance that this one will not cooperate with me, that this one is inappropriate, that it is a joke, or that it is from another party? These are the arguments that have been used. However, if you have valid reasons for this, then, of course, a decision is necessary, then it is necessary to explain this decision, which must be real, real, then legal instruction is also needed and legal remedies are possible. Probably an administrative dispute in this case. And this is the first thing we explicitly believe should be done and without it it cannot be said that the law is correct. Look, Mr. Minister is also talking today about how we need to find a way to get the government to resolve someone without bureaucratic procedures. Mr Minister, this is from the point of view of the Prime Minister and the Minister, who advocates legality, an unbiased, unfair, tending statement. We have procedures that protect certain rights of employees even when it comes to finding fault, and even when it comes to false dismissal. And to talk about this only because today it suits you that these are terrible bureaucratic procedures that we have prescribed and that hinder the Chief, the Chief, whoever can't mess with people and set them up today, and forgive them tomorrow, it's not a good sign of the Minister's and the government's thinking, how and what to do with the working relationship, what to do with the service relationship, how to make the government work. Therefore, the explanations given unilaterally in this direction are questionable. And our second proposal, contained in the amendment, brings back the three-month deadline and deletes the amendment, which was adopted on the proposal of the four coalition groups on the parent working body, which introduces the possibility that in all four years, whenever the chairman wishes, these top executives and managers can be replaced. I am convinced that this is a minimum step in the law that makes the law acceptable, because, while introducing a new four-year option of substitution is certainly an intervention in rights, an intervention in legitimate expectations and puts these hundred and more people in total uncertainty according to your criteria, whether it is friendly with me, whether it is politically compatible, whether it is from the wrong party, or whether it will cooperate with me, or whether it has complied with my order, because it has to comply politically, but not professionally, with each of these predecessors will be insecure for four years. And if someone tells me that this uncertainty will not affect the next stage, he knows that he does not speak the truth, because I trust him in his mind, but he knows that he does not speak the truth, because it necessarily affects every further level, so this is a minimum to ensure some legal certainty that this is a certain period, but otherwise that this is subject to, as Minister Virant said, all those bureaucratic procedures that are to protect certain relationships in a collective, including in the administration. And it's a felony that can be solved at any time. If we feel that the marriage, as Dr. Pirnat said in his interview, is underlying, we can give some more. He also cited them, for example, and I don't mind putting them into the law, only they must be such that there is a possibility of assessing whether the situation has taken place or whether such conduct has occurred, but not that it is a purely fictional arbitral assessment of the chairman and then it is up to him whether or not someone may be in such a place or not. It seems to us that these two are the minimum that we should do so that we do not happen, that we would really once stand for one, once for another definition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u27	Thank you, Mr. Potsch. Mrs. Lovtišar Bebler has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u28	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Our parliamentary group has also tabled an amendment to this Article, which introduces at least some minimum consensus that the highest official, if he wishes to resolve, would have given to such a measure. However, we are also, of course, asking ourselves when this Article 1 is being considered, why it is necessary to amend the Law on Public Servants after not two years of validity, a law that was accompanied by a justification at the time of adoption that it will clearly distinguish between policy and expertise in order to prevent the exercise of only short-term political interests and that in the selection of staff, in particular for the most sensitive jobs, high professional standards and political neutrality of staff. In particular, this should apply to the most politically sensitive bodies such as the police, the tax administration and the like, where an agreement between the coalition and the government is to be reached, in order to call these positions professional and at the same time all the acceptable personnel that any government, personnel that do not expose themselves politically and cliently to have a backbone and will be able to resist any political pressure. These are the words of the then Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Interior. Today, the Minister of Public Administration argues that the current legal situation makes it impossible for the government to elect such co-workers after the launch of the post as key places in the state administration to enjoy its trust and to be conceptually compatible with its programme. This "conceptually compatible" is an interesting phrase used in the explanation of this law. Maybe we could also write a moral-political propriety, because it used to be, didn't it? Conceptual compatibility is today what two years ago was a high level of expertise and professionalism, political neutrality, a clear distinction between politics and expertise. And if, two years ago, the government could have dealt with the Directors-General of Directorates and Chiefs of Government in an inviolable way during the first three months of the mandate, today it could have dealt with the heads of the authorities in the Ministry and the Secretary-General, not only in the first three months, but in the six months, and after the amendment of the Coalition Members, the government would have the opportunity to do so all the time of its rule, that is to say at any time. However, any high objectives of the applicant should be justified by its additional savings or its care for the prudent use of taxpayers' money, since, in the event of discharge without any ground of guilt, a second appropriate job would be provided to the official instead of his departure, especially in the case of a career officer. In particular, I would like to highlight the fact that the proposed amendment to the law is also controversial in terms of compliance with the Constitution. We believe that Article 1 violates the principle of trust in law, which is an integral part of the rule of law. In our view, too, the principle of the prohibition of the retroactive application of the rules has been violated as it is an infringement of the administrative situation and of the legal facts that were concluded during the period of validity of the previous legal standard. It is the fact that the secretaries-general of the ministries and the heads of bodies in the composition were in a position appointed by procedure and in the manner laid down by the applicable law on public servants. Among others, the law in force laid down the conditions for their resolution, and legal expectations are fully justified in this regard. These individuals were rightly expected to be provided with a work which, according to the law, would depend primarily on the professional criteria and not on the political needs of an individual minister who could at any time replace them, even though they would carry out their work in accordance with the law conscientiously and on the basis of professional autonomy. I could continue to substantiate the reasons why we believe that this proposed amendment to the law is controversial from the point of view of constitutionality, but I do not think it makes sense to do this here today, as it is in fact pointless that the applicant has suffered so much to prepare a convincing explanation. An explanation, which would actually fit the truth, could be read as was said about 14 years ago by a prominent political logo policy, which today is made up of this government coalition and said something like this, but I think I can quote it exactly: "It doesn't matter how many letters are written, especially that it is ours." And that is also what today is about adopting this and proposing this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u29	Thank you very much, Mrs. Bebler. Because we are not a singing assembly, but a parliament, I ask you very much to speak only to those who have a word. I'd like to take the floor with you, Mrs. Uhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u30	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary-General. I will only stumble in the face of some statements by the bitter opposition when I read a magnetogram of the working body meeting or today's statement. Employers fear that their boss will be replaced, afraid that he will not be able to implement politics so that the husband will not be killed. Get out of here! Where these bosses are when they give a decision to workers for so-called business reasons, these bosses are not afraid that their employees will be unemployed, on the road, without the means to survive the family, and not just themselves. Where is the rise of a man, where are these bosses and unions when the textile industry is closed, when people's coffins are forgiven, or they're left in uncertainty from day to day? But there is a fear for one, two bosses, otherwise, who talks about numbers, because they will still be able to work in the workplace, at the same time if they have the will and, otherwise, in the place, their education is appropriate. I argue that in every job, no matter how high you are, you are responsible to someone, you have to coordinate and implement the work programme, whether it is in the economy or in public administration. The legal and legal service says that we will intervene in their acquired right, guaranteed status for a specified period of time. Do we not then interfere in our country with all the people who are dismissed from work daily in their permanent rights because they have a contract to work, even for an indefinite period of time? What two-faced people! We're afraid for a couple of unruly officials, and we're afraid of the machines working on the standard, and we're threatening that there's a lot of other people in the employment office if they don't get "dogs" to go. Daily we receive letters from people who are dismissed from their jobs for reasons of guilt, not because they complain, but because they do not get another job. That you didn't have political skills, and no one believes you. I don't think it's necessary to lose words. You've done cleaning at all levels of so-called leading or responsible cities. For example, you moved the principal of the school, who ran on the wrong list for the National Assembly, to the lowest educational post, now she is the guardian of the extended stay. That's what people are warning us about, coming to us and saying, "You can't do a government program because you can't do your idea with their heads." In New Slovenia, we do not want to work in this way, we do not want to work in personnel cleaning, we want to implement the government programme with the people set by your government or with the people we will choose, they only decide if they agree with the programme and the work that this government has set themselves up. We support the proposed government law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u31	Thank you, Mrs. Uhanova. My word to Dr. Gabra.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u32	Thank you very much. Mr Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary-General! Today's debate is at least in my opinion, and so I also understand the supplement that has been tabled, only in the form of a conversation about top state officials. In fact, we are here today talking about the ability or inability of the authorities to limit themselves. Speaking of which, I'm not talking about just the current government coalition and the events that we're already witnessing and predicting. We are talking about power in Slovenia at all, so I am also talking about our so-called past authorities. The mermaids are many times, and they always invite power into the spheres of very long hands and setting and putting people away. But the area grows up, it forms, it becomes mature, if you can and when you can limit yourself. I valued Virant's colleague because we had the opportunity to work together in the government because he was able to give a reasoned warning about the need for self-limitation. When the law we are talking about today was passed, and when the law on state administration was passed, we even had a second reading in one of these laws, I think that it is in this article 88 that the secretary generals of the ministries, directors of the Directorates, etc. should also be changed. Here I admit that it was a widespread idea in the then coalition. However, the difference is that the then coalition was able to listen to the argument that went against it, and this article, with these provisions, was, I think, also thanks to you, thanks to Dr. Brejc and others who pointed out that it does not show too far, deleted, and that we do not have this possibility in this law, which is still in force today. That's what we're talking about, ladies and gentlemen. We are talking about the fact that, let me put it straight, it is very good that in the ministries we also have officials who know how to say, Mr Minister here you are wrong, maybe we should think about it again. You, Comrade Virant, have been the case, not of a civil servant, but even of an official who has repeatedly received an attachment to his views, which were different from that of the ministers. I was once in a position to tell one of my colleagues, he's right, let's make that decision. If it were not for this vote, if it were banned and crossed, then we would have made more mistakes in adopting legislation. Whether you went too far, even as an official, not a civil servant, is another question. But I remember that you were right more than once. That is why we have before us legislation that is still in force, which is better than it would have been. So a voice that points to this and does not agree as long as it remains within the law as long as it remains within the constitutional system is conceptually desirable in the Office, not the one to be discussed. It is entirely possible to discuss in this way to say, as has already been said here today, who cares, ladies and gentlemen, about a few ten or twenty state-level officials that we will replace because they have a different position. Anything is possible that citizens and citizens, of course, do not care. But those who know something about government know, but it is clear that these people can be competent or incompetent, not only debate, but also decide billions of people's fates. And if they're not qualified, if they don't have a spine, if they know that they can be replaced in one way or another after a free judgment, then we'll have a poorer quality of decision-making and handling of public funds, we'll also have worse laws, we'll have worse regulation. That's what we're talking about. The authorities here need to know how to limit themselves. That's what I'm talking about because I think, colleague Virant, you're here today to do something broader than the discussion we're having. You're bottling some kind of personnel tsunami in this country. At first glance, it seems, especially when we are standing on the terrace, that a natural phenomenon of smaller dimensions is approaching and, if possible, we are recording it. We think it's something that happens when power changes. When he gets here and hits the coast, we'll be panicking and wondering what he's swimming at. He's gonna flush people out, Dr. Shkrk, we've seen this yesterday, he's gonna bring in other great women who get to know each other a lot and are known for their patience and exceptional competence. When he breaks what he has to break, otherwise, it is also the property of the tsunami, and when he withdraws, he also flushes those he flooded. But behind this tsunami will be what remains behind the tsunami. You are not just changing these people in the government, you are already changing at ministries elsewhere, at lower levels. I just know it, you don't have to shift to this topic, put people aside, half in the basement, and somewhere else. In short, they don't work because they're too much for you, but they're competent. In sacred schools, you change people according to political criteria. Even to the world of higher education, you have forgotten and the supposed addition of time to properly team him up to be a quality, but you have adequately teamed him. Controlling worlds and so on, these are now large hunting grounds. The question is, are you going too far? Instead of taking one step forward, you have also announced this before the elections, in the direction of self-limitation of power, now you are going back a step and spreading that field that you have read to us. I say it's only ever justified. We've gone too far. But today, in this mandate, we're going to be a four-year-old country. It's time to limit ourselves further. However, if you need political officials, and it is entirely possible that you need them, then let political officials be visible. Don't replace these directors. Go back to the State Secretary system. The big ministries are hard to run, just the minister and someone else. I had the opportunity to run a house that had six secretaries of state. It may have been too much, but it's better than replacing the directors to put state secretaries there. They'll be yours politically. And no one's going to dispute about it. It'll be obvious, and we'll all know what we're doing. Now you're creating a fog. And that's not good. Therefore, I propose that you seriously consider whether we would rather not accept the supplement and thus bring the law into a meaningful framework. Let the river return from the shore to the trough.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u33	Thank you, Dr. Gaber. Mr. Kokalj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u34	Thank you for your word. Where does politics end in the governing structure and the profession begins? This is one of the key dilemmas of each ruling coalition, and ultimately its political decision. The ruling coalition is obliged to implement the policy in the broadest sense of the word that gave it the voter mandate. How best it will do so is wisdom, decisions, code and how it is necessary to act politically and at the same time professionally. The current government estimates that the successful implementation of the desired political changes requires certain personnel replacements, which is why it is necessary to amend the law adopted towards the end of the mandate of the previous government coalition. I am sure that no one who, professionally and professionally, even in the new political situation, works will be replaced. However, it is necessary to replace those top officials who hinder the work of the new government or who do not respect the principle of professionalism in their work. Since the Prime Minister is responsible for the work of the government and for the work of the individual ministry, the Minister must be able to appoint subordinates to the depth to which he estimates that this is necessary. The proposed law is still, in my opinion, very sweet. I think that, despite its adoption, it will still be difficult to achieve a better way of working. We must be aware that the previous government has prepared well with human resources policy for any changes in the elections, so I also understand their opposition. The reference to expertise is, of course, inappropriate, as the professional criteria will not change in any way in line with this proposal. The reference to Dr. Virant proposing the previous and current marriage is ridiculous. Dr. Virant is now the minister responsible for public administration policy. At that time, he was Secretary of State and as such responsible to the Minister of Home Affairs of that time. Even if he thought otherwise, according to professional ethics he was obliged to defend the political position of the then minister. This is normal in every parliamentary democracy. If the Minister felt that the Secretary was not acting professionally under the policy order, he would have replaced him. That's perfectly clear. But he didn't replace it. It is clear, therefore, that the law adopted by the previous government coalition was a political decision, so it would be time for politicians who make political decisions to stop relying solely on expertise when something does not suit you politically. Otherwise, where is the line between politics and expertise in a single person who is competent to judge it? Surely only those who cooperate with a specific person. Therefore, support for amending the Law on Public Servants is normal. Besides, I know that political competitors do not take the proposal very seriously that it is professional or legal or even constitutionally questionable. They are only aware of the ally in the Constitutional Court, who in the current composition has decided several times strongly politically. The suspension of the implementation of the law, supported by people in the referendum, is already such a case and is not the only one. The Committee on Internal Policy and Justice has repeatedly heard the constitutional contention of this bill. I believe that this is a pre-eminent threat and also pressure from the public to a constitutional court. By contrast, let us count once the laws that have been adopted in the Constitutional Court and adopted in the previous term, and we will see that each law can be constitutionally questionable if the Constitutional Court takes it in a particular detail. If today's proposed law accidentally happens to have an intervention by the Constitutional Court, I will not be surprised, but I will be even more confident that something needs to be done so that the Constitutional Court does not become an increasingly political entity and start replacing the government and the national assembly. This danger is quite real in this composition of the Constitutional Court, in my opinion, quite realistic. I will support the law, and, of course, I am counting on the political wisdom of the government and its ministers to apply the law for the benefit of our citizens and citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u35	Thank you, Mr. Bones. My word to Mr. Kumer.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Minister Virant, colleagues and colleagues! Let me begin by saying that I am aware that, with my debate, I am not likely to change the views of most of you in the government majority that you are going to vote on these amendments and the additions to this law today, even if it happens to be well-intentioned to see that some of the arguments that are also hidden in these two amendments make sense. This is legitimate, and the question is, of course, if it is legal and it is not likely that the Constitutional Court will decide that in the final sequence. But I'm not politically naive, so I'm going to say one, two, three things from the history of two, three years ago, out loud today, for the first time because of my own conscience, and for the second time, that I might recall some who, in the last two years, have advocated different positions and arguments in the adoption of this law. First of all, I'd say I don't even know why you're so defensive of the words of political power. Yeah, what kind of area doesn't politically frame? I just don't get it. That way, I wouldn't defend myself. However, the amendment of the Civil Service Act cannot be supported for two reasons. The first reason is because I do not agree with the arguments and views of the proposer, who, inter alia, stated in the explanatory statement at the outset, "the game for such a small scale of change and addition that it is not appropriate to deal with it on a regular basis" and, in the following paragraph of the explanation, I quote, "if such small changes do not occur, however, there can be blockades in the functioning of ministers, to the training of ministers and key officials in ministries and to the fact that the political will of the people expressed in the elections cannot be implemented in the practice of the State Administration", the end of the quote. These are two positions that are too distant to be an argument for amending these two articles of the law. A small change, possibilities and huge consequences for the state and citizens, something is not going on here. This argument in itself confirms that, in the first place, it is very important to amend this existing law on civil servants. And that I would not only speak in principle, I looked back at the positions which were made public and the applicants three years ago and later, even after the law entered into force, in 2003. One of the basic views and arguments why this law should be adopted was the following: I will quote, first of all, the headlines from these quotations, "Positive officials should be far from politics", "Positive officials are a long-term investment..." and so on. These are the views and opinions of the people who have prepared this law and, of course, have defended it in this House. To quote now, "In addition to the directors of the authorities in the composition of the government services, the heads of administrative units in the quota of 100 employees in the state administration, who have their mandate, and therefore will not be able to replace staff in the change of government. In particular, in the most important bodies in the composition, such as the police and the tax administration. The final choice must follow the political neutrality of the candidate, one that has not been politically or partyally exposed. He should have a spine and be able to cope with any political pressure." Further, the then State Secretary, who defended this position, said in the same reply, "I wish that the human resources plan would also be respected by the new government that Slovenia will receive after the parliamentary elections," he concluded. This just proves that this existing law has many good qualities. For it has been possible in two years, because it also further speaks of the internal labour market within the state administration, that it is the Secretary of State, of course, today because of the professional competences and also political powers, the Minister of this new government. It is said that there are some good qualities to progress, and so on, this law on public servants. However, that the realisation of these views, which I have previously quoted, has not in practice taken place, but I will take another paper, which is also published in Dinner, when, under the law on public servants and all procedures, the post of High State Officer, director of one of the offices in the Ministry of the Interior, has been awarded. It was an invitation to tender. A number of candidates have applied. The Secretary of State responsible for this area was on the invitation to tender. This invitation to tender was also appointed. Since six, I believe that seven or six incoming applications have decided that two applications meet all the conditions of the tender and that, as dictated by the law and procedure, the two candidates have proposed to the Minister. On the basis of this proposal, the Minister decided to act as one of these candidates and tried to submit it to the government for final confirmation. At that time, the situation in which a number of debaters have already spoken, which means that when a public minister opposes the opinion, the position, the policy that I will not use these big words, from statements, press conferences and so on and directly opposes his perceived minister, who through law has given him the authority to decide who he will choose and propose to the government, and calls him a political and cadre move to be a humane kitchen and so on. Although the same secretary of state was, of course, on this committee, one of whom the minister decided to propose to the government for confirmation. In the final phase, it even publicly threatens to withdraw from this position. In short, it's two cases and I believe it's an evolutionary process that takes some people a little longer, and it's two years, and of course things can turn around, and you see things differently. In the end, let me re-emphasize. I suggest that the ruling coalition tries to listen at least a little to the amendment tabled in Article 1, both by the United Nations and by the Liberal Democracy. At least we'll partially ease up to say, this personnel conversion that's supposed to take place in the last two years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u37	Thank you, Mr. Kumer. For the time being, only two more have been reported for the debate, but I see that there are more Members, but in the meantime also Mr Minister, Dr Virant, who will now wait for the debate. That's how I'd like to invite Mr. Milan Petk next.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u38	Dear Mr Pavlich, Mr Minister, Members and Members of Parliament! I would like to take the floor because I would like to support the two amendments tabled by the LDS and the United List of Social Democrats, which, in my opinion, are urgently needed in connection with the adoption of both amendments, as both amendments prevent serious consequences in the implementation of this proposed law and partly correct the appropriateness of this law with these two amendments. Gentlemen, are you aware of the long-term consequences of this law? Do you realize that by implementing the amendment of the law and especially by acting in practice in this small Slovenia you will literally discourage real experts from running for the most responsible places in public administration. How should top management cities be decided by top reference experts, who will continue to be under pressure of the fact that they will depend on the poor sleep of the minister or his poor will or disagreement with the Minister on the conduct of that official, despite the fact that these conducts are within the framework of legality. So not a bad job, but a subjective assessment of the so-called compatibility, but above all in my opinion a political basis, will be the basis for the exchange of the best key personnel. Are you those who propose such a law, when you have drawn an analogy with the company law, with a law on working relations, which clearly states how the administrations can be replaced, and this analogy, at least in my opinion in this part, when we are talking about discharges, should also apply to the most responsible functions in public administration. I do not think that a person can simply be replaced if no agreement has been reached with and between the employer. If it is replaced in this way, of course it may also land at another place of work or, if it is not, of course it must also be subject to relief. However, if, of course, it is a fault, the dismissal does not belong to him, and in such a case, the reason for the discharge of such an official may therefore be inviolable. I would like to bet with the Minister that there will be no person appointed to these key positions within the mandate of this government who, despite his express expertise, has achieved and proved on the path of life if such a person is a member or other political options or has ever been a member of another political option, i.e. an option that is currently not friendly to this coalition. In this I am also prevented by the event concerning the selection of the director of one of the agencies currently running, and has its seat in Maribor, where 42 experts were reported, where a narrower selection was made. Therefore, this narrower choice also comes from a person with the undisputed highest references and the best competences, as also recognised by his colleagues, experts working in this area. Unfortunately, he has one mistake: he's from a party that's not in this coalition. This is the only reason in this case not to propose to the government for appointment as Director. All of this shows, therefore, that the purpose of the law is not to bring the most crucial, most responsible places in the public administration of people who know something, who know something, but to bring in people who are loyal to some political option, that is to say to bring in people who will carry out their tasks in the way that politicians or ministers and key public administration officials are proposing. For this reason, I cannot agree to change the law and I propose that the Members of this Parliament adopt the two proposed amendments, because I believe that only by doing so would they correct the anomaly which such a law as is proposed adopt. With respect to the Secretary's bet, do you accept my bet? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u39	Thank you, Mr. Friday. It would be Mr Rupar's turn, because he's not here, and he'll be here as soon as he doesn't call later, so I'm inviting Dr. Gantar to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u40	Mr Vice-President, I would like to announce my support for the adoption of the two amendments tabled by the two opposition parliamentary groups. The amendment eliminates certain specific shortcomings of the law, although I must admit that they are not entirely good or even radical enough for me, but I will support them. The proposal itself, which we are amendments to, of course, is simple, is essentially extending the possibility of substitutions for non-criminal reasons, this is a purely normal matter in certain frameworks, even to the general secretaries and competent authorities in the composition. About that a little bit later. The real pearl, which I intend to mention in this regard, is given in the introductory justification of the law. The text represents an important contribution to Slovenian political theory and public administration theory, and we will probably quote it many times and also quote it, analyze it. In fact, this introductory argument, which I may conclude is that, of course, Minister Dr Virant, it seems that the political will expressed in the elections must be expressed in the practice of public administration. Here I could point out that, of course, the Minister is a Hegelian, because he believes that through his or her colleagues' actions, colleagues express the will of the people. Whether the will of the people, when it came to elections to replace a police chief or secretary-general in a ministry, cannot be judged and the motives for which people went to the elections are multifaceted. The will of the people will prove to be post-festive in this case. However, I would certainly not like to, and I recommend that you do not base any concrete action on the will of the people, because the will of the people will be able to return to you in the form of a tsunami, as my colleague Gaber has already mentioned. The area which has undoubtedly been legally acquired must also be legitimately used. This includes the principle of self-restraint already mentioned. This must be known and taken into account. In a sense, the SDS was in a similar position as the LDS after the elections in 2000, and it is that after the elections after the victory there were a lot of people around the party who contributed to the victory and now they want the prizes. We have resisted this by adopting a new law, and you are adapting to this by amending this law. Thank you very much. I know the documents, we can discuss it here today or somewhere else. The Minister must have the opportunity to choose his associates. He's got to have it, and he's got it. The Secretary of State may replace certain high-ranking public officials, directors of the Directorates - I myself have been rather unfavorable - with the possibility of setting up a political cabinet. Remember these discussions, Dr Virant, when I had a lot of concerns about the political cabinet at the time, but I only accepted it because this reduced the possibility of political intervention in the professional structure of public administration. However, I was quite, I would say, unloved of it and also of the political cabinet I did not actually have, say, at my work. But that's exactly what's happening now. It was not by chance that the Secretary-General and the Chief Executive of the Authority were not included in the list of officials who could be replaced without any ground of guilt. In particular, I would say that the bodies in the composition are not part of the ministry, because they have a degree of autonomy in relation to specific political orientation and are designed to implement and implement certain policies that are, but are, in fact, in force and cannot now be asked whether this policy is actually correct or not. Such an understandable system, which places certain functions in the state administration at a certain level of distance to the Minister and the Ministry, allows, you could say, the rational functioning of the public administration, but in particular also guarantees against certain political risks that might arise and is based on the idea of distinguishing between rational administration and valuable political decisions. There is no law between one and the other that can prevent this, but there will always be certain tensions. And it's right that they are. This is an integral part of policy dynamics and there is no final formula for separation between professional and political. Politically, this divorce is always resolved in the next elections. The Secretary-General - we discussed this when we were working on the law - was defined as some kind of director of the house who cares about the organisational and logistical smooth functioning of the ministry; who cares that the minister does not deal with where he will go, where he will sit, what he will do, where he has resources and so on, but that it will work. Ministers change, ministries stay - well, of course, not always, I know that too. But if the Ministry doesn't stay, there's still work to do. Mr Virant claims that the selection of senior officials, directors, was political. Of course, it was the policy of each to choose, if only possible, the most capable and experienced, but not the one with the party's membership card to which the minister belongs. This is happening today. Today it is happening that, say, at two Directorates from a crowd of potential directors, v.d. Directors of Directorates were selected two having a client's booklet to which the minister belongs. The real purpose of this law is indeed broader, as my colleague Gaber also pointed out. I'd say I don't know if it was some sort of conscious wish. I would not like this to be seen as a conscious wish, but such measures raise fear in public administration. And this fear, you don't want to make a flexible office. It kills autonomy and professionalism and self-initiativeism; this is already happening, we get these signals. For the first time it has happened, let's say that officials in lower positions also need to know and comply with the coalition contract. This is, of course, very unusual. It's like they're committed to her, not the job and the jobs they're paid for. But such a practice may first be vengeful to you. Because officials will tell you what you want to hear, not what is possibly true and what may not be pleasant; because they will hide problems and various possible solutions because they will try to guess what you want to hear, but not what would be good for solving a particular problem. From my own experience, I can only mention this, and I hope that I have benefited most from discussions with officials who disagreed with me, who have proposed different solutions, not with those who have listened unconditionally to me. The former government, as has been said, has set up only a few people under the new law. On the contrary, of course, in the opposition. That is why, of course, I support these amendments, although I do not think they fully address the problem of this law, which is substantially broader than I have already mentioned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u41	Thank you, Dr. Gantar. I'd like to take the floor with you, Mr. Tercheon.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u42	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! So when it comes to the debate on amendments to the Law on Public Servants, there are often two main issues: the legal dispute over these changes and the political dispute over these changes. Now, as far as political dispute is concerned, it must be concluded that we are a political body, that we all have some political principles and political objectives, and that most are probably the ones who end up deciding and considering political dispute, and finally adopt an act that can be politically disputed. As far as legal dispute is concerned, I think we should stress in particular that the entire Parliament is committed to adopting legally correct acts. If this law had any transitional provision stating that this law does not apply to officials who were appointed under an existing law, then most of this legal dispute would have been eliminated, I think. However, this transitional provision does not exist. And of course, I also answer why she's not. Because if this were a transitional provision, then the law would not have achieved the objective. The aim is to replace officials, even if few are politically or otherwise incompatible with the existing new authority. And it seems to me, above all, that the legal dispute between the law and the changes in the law is one that needs to be highlighted. I'll try to tell you about a case that's not exactly the same, and if it was adopted, it would be exactly the same after the effects. In this Parliament, a debate was held in several mandates on the incompatibilities of the Member and the Mayor. Members and mayors come from different political parties and also different political parties are not entirely united on this issue. Some argue that this is incompatible, some argue that this is compatible, but if we reach the necessary majority to decide that these two functions are incompatible, of course everyone would understand that this is true for the future. That is not the case if we adopt such a law tomorrow that all the MPs who are mayors will be expelled from this House. As far as I understand, even in discussions with the former Secretary of State and current Minister, this has been clear to everyone so far. Obviously, that's not clear in this marriage. And according to the effects, this arrangement would be exactly the same as what you're proposing if you accepted it. It is quite clear that mayors have the right to perform their functions to the end, even if they are Members, because they have been elected in a system, even if today they would accept me differently when these functions were compatible. And it is quite clear that these officials who are in these jobs - either in the bodies in the composition or the secretaries-general - have the rights that the law currently in force gives them. And that it is not possible to change this during the term of office, to stop and to set a constitution when it comes to retroactiveities, we are all committed, regardless of our political beliefs and whatever our political objectives. Of course, in an absurd case, I could say that if such a large majority were reached, the Constitution could also be changed. However, this majority is not yet there, and we must respect this constitution. Of course, I understand from the discussions of some of the debaters that you are also prepared for this possibility of a Constitutional Court decision to take place and that you will then say: of course, because the Constitutional Court is at the will of the current opposition, which it has put in place, and they have prevented us by means of an act. And we need to interact with incompatible officials, so we're not effective. And you will have an excuse before the people why you are ineffective. You'll even be able to make it work for a while. But in the long run, think for yourself, I'm sure that's not going to work. If I continue, it seems to me that the amendment that you voted on the working body, that it is possible to replace these officers at any time, not in six months, as you first estimated that you need more time, seems to me controversial. It might even be legally sustainable, but if I were to banally compare it with the previous case, the MP and the mayor, this could mean that the Member would be called off at any time, because the employer of the Member is a people. Do you have any idea what kind of anarchy we'd be living in if the Members didn't have an imperative mandate and we could replace them freely? Would we have another legal state, any continuity that is necessary, any legal stability and security of the state? I think you can answer that for yourself. I also believe that there are not so many people who are being attacked by this law that even a few of them are possible. Most of the time, the director of the body in the composition, the director of the police, is mentioned. This seems particularly worrying to me that the first attack of the law or of the legal act proposed by the opposition is directed at the Director of the repressive authorities. When it comes to expertise - you have read the opinion of the legislative and legal service, you mean that it is unprofessional, in my opinion it is completely professional, but there are some legal impermissible content of these changes, which should certainly be taken into account. In the end, I would say this: this law is certainly an attempt at human resources clearance. However, I am sure that, regardless of its fine appearance and acceptability, it will not take just six months, as was the case with another case, that it will probably last longer, but it will certainly be more thorough. Certainly, given the power ratio that prevails in this House, I am sure that you will vote on this law. We will discuss when the decision of the authorities which will assess this will be known. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u43	Thank you, Mr. Tarchoon. Mr Kontic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Human resources exchanges are always a sensitive topic, and even in the previous mandate, if you remember, I also opposed, in the previous term, trades that had a political foretaste and were not merely professionally justified, then I called on the government or the President of the then government to stop its invaders on a march to power at all levels. Nevertheless, I think you're taking this law a step further. I will certainly support the two proposed amendments. In doing so, I wonder, of course, what the calls will look like in the future for these most responsible cities, that of course we will have two rounds, the first round will be the expert round, where the official council will decide who is qualified to perform this function, and then the second round, in which there will be one indent, where it will be stated that all those who apply must add their consent, perhaps even certified by the notary, to agree with the minister's policy on this and that. I also wonder why the President or the President of the National Assembly did not send this law to the local community for the opinion of the municipalities, as it also refers to local communities in some part. In his introduction, Dr Virant said that if an official did not act politically, he would be able to continue his professional work when the new government arrived. Indeed, this is the case: if an official who has been politically elected does not continue to be politically defined, he will be able to continue his work once another government has been elected. In doing so, it must be concluded that such a politically elected official under this law will be replaced by an existing government if it is not politically appropriate. The possibility of a replacement at any time means greater expertise. I highly doubt that. I even believe that it means greater political ownership and strengthening political influence. All unions disagree, local committees. I believe they do not agree, for after the experience I have in the last month, when political commissioners organise certain political options in various roles, including school principals in church premises, I am of course clear where this path is going. And they're probably union committees in individual local communities that agree with everything the existing government does. And they also agree that human resources change is political, because this opens up space for them - or at least they think - they hope to have space open to them - even for their further advancement. As I said, I will certainly support the two amendments that have been tabled. In doing so, I want to say that even when these amendments are adopted, the law will not be good or the change of law will still not be good.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u45	Thank you, Mr. Contic. In the meantime, Mr Rupar has joined us, who has already applied for the floor. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u46	Thank you very much, with an apology for the delay. Let me also take a brief part in the adoption of this law. It seems to me extremely important that we also enlighten the Slovenian nation that not everything in the state administration is purely and exclusively professional, which is yours, and that it is unprofessional, which is ours. So, in one word, I can claim from my practice that being an expert in state administration, especially in those segments that have a strong impact on development as well as on the life of this country, is not enough. You were aware of this in the past, years and years ago, and also since the takeover of power 12 years ago, when experts - even I could argue - could only change it by the principle of being LDS and only LDS and no one else as LDS, with the touch of the United List, except where the United List wanted to have a strong influence, these are state prosecutors, courts, and you could count on some of the areas you took or wanted. Well, there's no marriage here. The law speaks of state administration, officials, and, of course, everything that belongs, I'll say, to some extent, the ballast that belongs. However, it is, of course, responsible and fair for each government to offer its results to those who have entrusted it with leadership. These results cannot be offered by experts who do not want to work. So if someone says, "I'm sorry when this one's in power, I'd rather "get out" from this country than serve him, it's not an expert to me, it's an ideological proponent. If today one of the members of this National Assembly has been saying that there is now a tsunami coming, let me just warn him that this is very bad, I will say, even an accusation, but also in nature a very bad concept. But we know other concepts too! And if he's been so demagogic himself, let me have a few words. Worse cases are infectious diseases. Like in the history of plague, then tuberculosis, and now hepatitis, AIDS, and so on, which slowly swallow up in the times of human beings. People who are infected have germs in them, and they don't even know it. But there comes a time when it erupts, like a tragedy, a terrible tragedy, which is very difficult to prevent, and for which, usually, at the moment she was picking up a living in the world, they had neither vaccines nor medicines. And a very similar matter has happened in Slovenia in recent years. Suffocation by our ideology and in all seasons - see where you don't have your own - at all times, it means an outbreak of disease, which is said to her, "I will not work, I will resist you, who is now new, even though the people have chosen you. I will let you suffer because people will feel the consequences of my work in such a way that they will have no benefit." And in the end, of course, this infectious disease can mean no tragedy for the ruling but a tragedy for the nation. Therefore, allow this law, which is adopted as a medicine; as a remedy against these germs, which oppose the normal immunity of this animal, this country, and to establish competition. Like antibodies in human blood and body, they act against these germs to resist them, to expel them from heat, to sweat, and so on, and to establish their competition by maintaining primacy and, above all, a healthy body. And this healthy body is what this government wants. This body is this country. And he's a Slovenian nation. It is also right to establish it in the state administration by establishing competition. Only then will we be able to witness competition or the true meaning of the word "expert" in the state administration. Well, if a man or an expert who will appoint him or set him up or whatever, someone who is any government - if he doesn't work, if he throws it, he will be able to replace him, whether he's built by ours or he's built by yours. So, I reject all the evidence on behalf of my colleagues and all those who think it is particularly right, that, above all, state officials with their expertise, and also with the knowledge that if someone is bad, they can create a better life, and especially that they work for people, because they have ultimately set it up. Therefore, I will support this law, and I wish that as little as possible of the Demigo tsunamis as they ever occur here, especially from the words of those who have already caused the earthquake in this country, because the earthquake is the cause of the tsunami. Such an earthquake was, for example, a year ago, a primary school that waved, was "wounded", we made a nine-year-old, and the tsunami is now coming with the first waves, but for the last waves, I fear they will not destroy the generation that is now in primary schools, but teachers are already aware of it, as we have witnessed last year's results, which for the first time show the trend of this tsunami or knowledge in a negative direction since Slovenia is independent. No one can deny it because they're pedagogical research. Basically, leave this tsunami demagogy, and I will also be sick and contagious things, at peace and leave this nation and this body to live as it wants, and this is especially healthy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u47	Thank you, Mr. Rupar. Perhaps it is worth refreshing the memory that we are debating the two amendments tabled to Article 1 and Mr Rezman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Now I have to admit that I'm a little uncomfortable because I'm feeling kind of contagious and morbid, but there are some thoughts I'd like to say about what I can and can't do. Now, the first thing I would like to mention is that, like some others, I support both amendments because, in my judgment, they are slightly too weak to propose a law, but they are partly improving. Secondly, with which I would like to solidarity, is the thought or kind of thought that Dr. Gaber has expressed, because even in my judgment - even before I heard it, I thought about it this way: this is not really about what appears on the emerging level, this is about something that is significantly more far-reaching, it is about some political architecture, about political engineering, whose final results we cannot predict right now, but we will open the door with this. I'm afraid there's not gonna be too much wave slamming through that door. And I would also like to solidarity myself with the need to determine how much wisdom any government is going through, when it comes to thinking about boundaries, self-limitation, and how much power it takes and how much wisdom. The power usually manifests itself in the number of raised hands, but wisdom does not have this opportunity without everyone supporting it. I would like to say that I would also support the view that it is not possible to transfer the political will into legislation as mentioned today or as mentioned in the introduction to explanation in this law. These paths are not so mechanical that the political will of people who go to voters from political interests is simply translated into professional decisions. However, I would also like to say that I am denying support for this proposed law, because it seems to me that it has a whole range of weaknesses, and because I think I can find enough arguments, even in the past, for this denial. Let me mention just a few things; as some others have done, I will also read a few sentences, first of all a request that was written in 1991 and demanded the establishment of a system of key official positions that are separate from political functions. It was one of the requirements that I now think we are serving in full. Another such requirement was the requirement to ensure greater stability of the administration and to reduce the negative consequences of political change. I must admit that I doubt whether this greater stability of our administration is guaranteed by the threat of permanent exchange of top officials. The next thing you need to mention is that, of course, governments and ministers are not without power. This is also stated in the Law on State Administration, which is stated in the Government Act, and this is also stated in this explanation, which states that it is necessary to enable the creation of a cabinet as a circle of personal advisors or employees associated with personal trust. So to personal trust and not to anything else. Let me also say that after the law has been passed, the requirement of this or the prohibition has also been implemented - and this is now a prohibition - that once an official has been elected to the post, the next five years should not be replaced. And this gives him that political stability, that administration that has to be a hard spine, not one that knows how to adapt through the elasticity system to those who just make political decisions. So that I cannot be solidarityd with this proposal, I am looking for support in arguments that are Dr Virant's arguments, but the arguments of 2001, and I think, at least, more acceptable than the current arguments. If we support this, we'll just go from bad to worse if Dr. Virant thinks the present marriage is bad.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u49	Thank you, Mr. Rezman. Mr. Germich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u50	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr Vice-President, Mr Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I must say that I am pleased, even if we often have an uncoordinated position from the local environment, but of course I am pleased that I can also hear from the coalition an opinion that is controversially discussing today's bill. And, of course, I am also pleased with this in this respect, because it seems to me that even as a schoolboy who has worked for many years in education and promoted a critical and creative thought, it seems to me to promote such a critical and creative mindset also one and of course an autonomous mindset - one of the important parts of this national assembly. And in this I fully support the discussion that my predecessor here also presented. However, I would now make a little substantive reference to what is stated in the bill in the justification and in what has been said in the opening statement today. Of course, I can fully agree with the initiator who correctly acknowledges that the adoption of the law in 2002 was a significant step forward and that, of course, all further steps make sense to build on the experiences that some change brings. Such an experience then also dictates new steps, new changes. However, I think it is very important here, as has been said many times today - that is, the distinction between politics and expertise and, above all, where the limits of the self-limitation of some authority in its conduct are. Here, I think it is an exception to the important debate in this direction, because, as a member of the past mandate, I also have to say that I have very much respected the professional positions of today's minister, although it was clear that there has been a lot of disagreement between the Minister and his position in the past government. But as has already been said here today, it seems to me to be of value as a quality, for the highest authority often needs independent expert opinions on how to act. However, this is very important in the area of the design of the expertise of public administration, for which, of course, we all want it to act as an expert, fast, efficient service for all citizens and citizens. And, of course, the experience you have today, Mr Minister, from the past period, should not, in my opinion, be one which would suggest that, of course, such experience should not be possible and that it would be necessary to prevent them from taking on the very fast process of enacting the law that is before us today, without even being able in the somehow normal process that we have taken on in our Group, to examine thoroughly all the consequences that these changes will bring. Of course, I would also like to make myself very clear here in the debate on the opinions of those who said that the proponents very much wanted to avoid the words "political change" and that they used very hard terms that say that the highest functions in the state administration are called programmely coordinated people. Here it seems clear to me that there is no way to deny that the Minister, the Government has its powers to a certain extent and responsibility for the implementation of its policy. Of course, today, when we discuss these proposals, we need to talk about the consequences that I consider to be significantly more far-reaching than can be presented here today. These effects in various areas could already be felt at a closed meeting of the National Assembly, when we had before us a decision on a certain function for Brussels and by a vote we said no. Even more so will be the justification or answer to the Member's question to the Minister of Health, who refused to appoint one of the directors of the Slovenian hospitals, on the grounds that the political management of the hospital has been detected in the past period, without any justification for what this means. Today we have also heard about the fact that in the past period some disease has entered the Slovenian nation and that this must be treated with medicines. If this fact is analysed slightly further, the medicinal products may also be administered at an overdose dose and if the medicinal products are administered at an overdose dose, have no preventive effect or may have significantly different effects than a desired dose. And here today is a discussion about whether these changes will become some pattern of behaviour in the future, where in different places, in different functions, people can be afraid for their destiny in different professional positions. What, for example, is such a way to build public administration, state administration and the appropriateness of its professional complementarity? I am sure, Dr. Virant, that in the framework of a two-million-dollar nation, you are certainly also aware of the role you are playing as a lecturer at the university of how long-term the process is to build staff. And the building of personnel and their careers can have positive or negative effects if the fear of continuing their careers in terms of expressing their views can be what will limit them. I would therefore like today, when we discuss this, to express our support for at least the two amendments tabled on behalf of the two parliamentary groups, which will slightly improve the law, which I believe is already weak at the outset. That's why I'd like these two amendments to be supported. At the same time, we want the consequences and self-restraints of the human resources interventions that this government will perform - because I am sure, given the views expressed by the members of the groups, that the law will be adopted - have some limits of rationality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u51	Thank you, Mr. Germich. Does the government want to speak at this time? Minister Dr. Virant, please. Otherwise, they're still listed for discussion, and the list is growing.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u52	Well, based on the discussions I've heard, I was surprised to learn how many evil thoughts you actually think are lurking in our heads when we go into this amendment of the law on civil servants, that this change is meant to clean up everything that doesn't think the same as the new power to destroy some human rights tsunami. And it reminds me of this -- or I think you're judging someone who bought a tool that bought a hammer to do something useful with it, and you're condemning them in advance to beat everyone around this hammer and destroy everything around it. It also seems to me that you are discussing as the Viennese wiseguys who, if you remember Fox's goat, were condemned, not because he ate foreign cabbages, but because he was looking at it wrongly. And because he had the idea of eating it in his head. Otherwise, at this point, I would only like to respond to some of the points that have been made in the debate. Firstly, is it really an anti-reform and a departure from the concept, as Mr Rob said. I would like to recall once again that the original version of the Law on Public Servants, which has already been in this National Assembly, provided for the possibility of both the Secretary-General and the Chief of Staff in the composition, one year after the new Minister's term of office. This proposal was sent to the National Assembly by a government in which they were sitting not to list them by name, some of the current MPs of the National Assembly who strongly oppose this law. It does not seem strange to me if, in a certain period of time, someone can support two slightly different proposals. But what I think is, what I think is, is that you're proposing something first and then you're attacking it with all the cannons. I waited eagerly, or I waited with interest, for quotes from my former discussions, records, statements, interviews, and so on. Because I knew that much effort was being made to find something that would strongly oppose this idea that I am now advocating. But whatever I listened to, I find that didn't work. I don't know. I have already read my comment on the law that I have written after it was adopted, in which I have made it very clear that it is essential that the Minister and the Director of the Ministry are close co-workers and that they must therefore find a common language and that there must be an opportunity to cooperate. I advocated professionalism, political neutrality, separation of political functions and official positions. Changing the law doesn't change any of that. None of that. We still have the same selection procedures as before, precisely the ones by which the previous government has chosen its directors. With regard to political neutrality, I still feel the same; that it is good and appropriate and useful if there are people in key official offices who are neutral in terms of party policy who are not involved in party policy. And that's what I'd say. You mentioned my personal case several times. So it would be [[...]] [[A voice in the background.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u53	Please, this is the minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u54	Perhaps you could describe him in more detail. In my personal case, when there was a conflict with the Minister of the Interior, it was, interesting, the exact same dilemma that we are facing today. Does the leader have the right to choose his associates? My conflict with the Minister has occurred because the Minister has decided to set up the man he wanted to have in this place, even though this area was in my responsibility and I have somehow considered it normal not to change the man in this job until I am satisfied with him. At the time, the Minister wanted a certain man who was a verified and eloquent member of the party, who also belonged to the Minister. I talked to the minister about it. I said I didn't agree with it. The matter stayed in the house, as it should be. Then I also went to the Prime Minister, and the Prime Minister explained this - and what happened then? One day, the minister called me to his office, and he said to me, "You have until Monday to decide whether to resign or to get rid of you. That's what the Prime Minister told me." I wonder if Mr. Rob will challenge this truth. Either the minister was telling me something he wasn't holding, or it was the truth. Well, I can tell the truth to the end of why I wasn't relieved. The one who acted wisely in this situation was the Prime Minister of the Party, Mr Pahor, who called the Minister and me and wanted different solutions. That's how this fight ended. And there's something else about weather and geophysical events. I wouldn't talk about tsunami, but I'd like to talk about a fresh wind that is sometimes very necessary in the government.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u55	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We continue to discuss MEPs and Members. It's Mr. Gulic's turn. Just a minute, Mr. Mag. Robbery, replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u56	Thank you very much. So, Mr Virant, we are at a time when you served as State Secretary - not the head of the body in the composition - so the Secretary of State, for whom you too - the present and existing law allows - you believe that it must be compatible with the Minister and it was possible then and now and at any time to change, as long as it is not part of the team and team that works at the Ministry. What I was talking about today was the supervisory authorities. It was those who guarantee independence and expertise, not those who represent the narrowest team working for the Ministry. We've had several interviews, and you were one of those who advocated this kind of expertise and professionalization of the administration. I agreed with that, and I agreed with you, and I have always stood up for that. You know that. I stood up at a time when I was Minister of Finance, and also later when I was Prime Minister. That is why such talkers you are triggering today are completely pointless. I don't know what you two were talking about with the minister, but if I wanted you to quit, then you'd probably be suspended, and this procedure and the procedure against you never started, simply because I appreciated your professional work and I was sure that these ideas that you introduced into the civil servants law were good. And today you're changing these ideas and throwing them away! That's all we're talking about. We haven't looked anywhere for your quotes either, there's no need, because you've been here many times and you've talked about these ideas that talk about the professionalization of public administration. However, as Prime Minister, I have repeatedly advocated that the Chief of Police would be an independent expert, an individual, and I am the Chief of Police, who, even during my term of office, was in this respect also supporting, regardless of whether it was more or less clear to us, and it is clear to all of us that he may be somewhat different in political conviction. And that doesn't seem to be an issue to me, and I think that was even completely good. Here and today we are talking mainly about police, tax administration and customs. In these months or two months, we have seen what the police have done or tried to do, tried to influence the recruitment of individual positions and individual positions that are purely professional; in places where it is decided how and how the police act. In such procedures and in such cases, the Minister tried to interfere with the work of the police. I think it is good for all of us to prevent this and not allow it through a change of law. Above all, I think it makes sense that those people who assume the role of head of such a supervisory authority, which is really important for the functioning of the rule of law, are not constantly under pressure from the daily decisions of the daily policy. And you're actually doing this now with these suggestions. That is why I am sure that the adoption of the law and the novels, I am sure that you will accept this today, will be a step backwards, I am sure that it will allow a direct intervention of policy in the functioning of these supervisory authorities, and I am sure that this will affect the bad functioning of these supervisory authorities. Or it may be easier to exercise a political interest, perhaps even a party’s interest. We therefore oppose this proposal, so we are convinced that this proposal is bad and that it is taking several steps back. What you were talking about at the time is not the subject of our consideration, be free of worry, it can be the subject of an interesting treatment of journalists and the media and I believe that they will deal with it on their own.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u57	Thanks, mag. Robbery, for the replica. We are now continuing the debate on the applicants. Let me read the list if anyone else decides. So they still have a word in order: Mr Gulič, Mr Jelen, Mr Jerovšek, Mrs Pečanova, Mr Kovacic, Mrs Potrata and Mr Sok. Good. We'll update that list. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Mr Grimes, I do have glasses, but I didn't notice you and you didn't raise your hand if you were doing any other moves that indicated that you were raising your hand, then I'm sorry I didn't see you, but I didn't see you and I'll write you down. [[...]] Funny thing is, I just missed you. I will read the list of discussers again so that I will not later receive the readings - of course, this does not mean that no one else should apply for the word later, but, however, for a better review: Mr Gulič, Mr Jelen, Mr Jerovšek, Mrs Pečan, Mr Kovacic, Mrs Potrata, Mr Sok, Mr Potrč, Mr Grims, Mr Grill, Mrs Širca and Dr Slavinec. Mr. Gulic, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Dear President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, Mr Minister! The proposed amendment to the law that we are discussing today will be supported because of the little they have to do with what the law might allow. I don't think myself, Mr. Virant, that there are any evil thoughts in your head. I believe in the well-intentioned people and the benevolence, but I also know something about people at all. It's not a new matter. The matter is also not related to this number after 1991, but also to what happened before 1991. [[Maybe I'll go back to history a little bit.]] . Such decisions, which have such an open option as is now referred to as incriminating reason or conceptual incompatibility as the possibility of an uncriminal reason, are such an open matter that I can compress everything. Not only political inadequacy or inadequacy, but all of it, including whether someone likes or dislikes it, is it arranged as well as his superior seems right or not, and so on and so forth. Such things then allow for various teasing, snitching, as is well called in the jargon, and other things, resentment from the past and possible resentments from the future. These are the dead of all those who work in such an environment. The dead also wake them up forever - wakes them up so they won't be fit at once. Under these, or infallible reasons, false reasons can also be concealed, making a matter easier to escape. That's what I'm talking about. So I don't think the law is good, because it's actually going to prevent creativity, it's going to disable its own thought, it's going to disable its own word. Of course, that's not freedom. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u59	Thank you, Mr. Gulic. I give my word to Mr. Yelena.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u60	Thank you for your word. Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, Members and Members of Parliament. Dear Minister of Public Administration, Mr. Virant. The proposed amendments to the law to extend the possibility of replacing the heads of bodies on the composition do not seem excessive to me, as there are legitimate and urgent public needs for such an intervention. It seems to me that the amendment to the law proposed by the Government is necessary for the implementation of the agreed policy in the coalition contract. In my view, the regulation of the existing government does not allow such an agreed policy to be implemented, at least not sufficiently. It is true that the current law, which we are supplementing, offers certain options for implementing the agreed policy, but in political reality it has shown that there are some problems. I am convinced that the impact of policy in the functioning of the state administration must be, in terms of drafting laws, general rules and other acts in which the policy, which has been given a mandate by the voters in the last national elections, is applied. In my opinion, the state administration or at least its executive apparatus must pursue a specific policy, which means that it must take into account the political orientations of the current coalition, which have elected us at all, and we have the mandate of the electorate. It is true that the administration must act apolitically, but this level of activity refers to the area where laws are implemented or applied. The current situation has shown ambiguity in understanding the tasks of the state administration. I believe that an official performs public tasks in public benefit politically neutral and impartially, but a public official must also take into account the existing political option: In fact, even in the public administration there are tasks that are more defined by the objectives, which is the essence of this policy. Because, in essence, it is a concrete policy to set objectives for which we have been given a mandate and the objectives are also defined in our coalition agreement. I am in favour of the political neutrality of the state administration, but I think it is imperative to define those parts of it that must be aware that they are only the operational part that serves the existing political coalition to carry out strategic, professional tasks in the drafting of laws, regulations and the like. As a member of the coalition, I am pleased to be able to support the amendment of the Law on Public Servants. Personally, I think that we have an opportunity for Members of the National Assembly to think about the solutions that we are defining. I believe that the proposed amendments to the law are the solution that will enable us to implement more effectively the policy for which we have been given a mandate in the elections, so I will also vote in favour of the proposed law.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u61	Thank you, Mr. Yellen. Mr Jerovšek, I give the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Today, while we are ahead of the minimal amendment of the Law on Public Servants, it seems important to me that we are aware of what changes are being made, because in the public eye we are witnessing enormous surprise, according to the opposition, who has appointed directors of directors, directors of cabinets and so on, how clean will happen, what is going on. My memory goes back a little bit, and he realizes that the Liberal Democracy has had an extremely high-quality technology of purely political. I recall that the then Bajuk government has left one third of the state secretaries, which has never before been done by any government of the Liberal Democracy, but it has received extraordinary criticism at that time, and that is what is happening today. Now, from these benches, a general definition is that those who are placed are the greatest experts are competent. I do not deny that these are capable people, but in public we have already received from the elections some omissions that are not normal in a normal country, which, in spite of showing that some high-ranking government officials, officials do not want to work for this country in that healthy spirit because the will of the people has changed. But they do not agree with the will of the people who have been shown in the elections, but they want to act on the inertia ahead for some power centers that have been forever in the background that have tried to operate from behind and not least for those who have set them up. I am firmly convinced that if some factory, some company, some institution wants to do properly, do well with what it is charged with, it must have a homogeneous team. And your goal is to prevent this, to keep Trojan horses within the power that will act, what do I know, for the purposes of the shadow government and so on. And it's about expertise that's gone now and I don't know what! I could put here a lot of evidence of lack of expertise even to the minister of the shadow government, and I'm not going to do that. But nevertheless, with this propaganda machine, which you still have to a large extent control, you are limping, you are doing an incredible hallo effect. And I am sure that these changes that are being prepared are actually objectively necessary. I don't know if I understand these two amendments correctly or at least this amendment of the Liberal Democracy - it seems to me that this consensus, acting democratically, is being skillfully included in its sub-tone. However, it is whether a minister or one of the superiors tries to move an official or an official to another position without a pension. I think your desire to create victims and martyrs is hidden in this. For if he does not agree with this agreement to move to another job, he will act as a victim, and you will turn on the propaganda machine and shout and roar. I expected this so-called manly trust from the opposition to be able to make more substantive additions to the law, but I must say that we are facing some kind of poverty. That's why I don't believe, I just don't believe that any good intentions are there. However, I recognize the right of the opposition to behave this way, but before the Slovenian public we must show you a mirror in which the Slovenian public will detect all your hidden purposes, hidden plans to preserve all the centres of power that you are witnessing, how to actually overthrow the new authority and prevent it from ruling transparently. Because you've been masters in untransparent rule, and you'll probably be if you come back into the realm of power. In an extremely crafty way, you always knew one thing to speak to the public and the other to do it in practice. And in this practice it is actually necessary to make some changes. I think that this draft law, which is before us, allows for a more transparent authority for the Slovenian people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u63	Thank you, Mr. Jerovšek. Once again, I would like to point out that we are discussing two amendments to Article 1. And please try to hold the debate in this direction and not turn everything into a fight between the opposition and the position. Mrs. Pecanova has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u64	Good afternoon, Madam Members and Members! Good afternoon, Vice President. Hello, Mr. Gregor Virant! I have to say, when I saw these four articles of amendments to the Civil Service Act, I was sad. I have accompanied and observed Mr Gregor Virant as a very good, highly professional and capable secretary of state who conducted the procedure for the drafting of this law and the adoption of this law by linking to one law all public servants in this country, despite the fact that we know what kind of struggles and what kind of objections there have been, in particular, in the medical profession, and later in the press profession, and how many, in fact, struggles have been fought in relation to this law. Above all, it seemed important to me that this law actually sought to make the field of public servants as neutral as possible, saying that what has been going on since Mary Teresa has been said to be an independent public servant and must work for the good of the people. Maria Theresa had already appointed her employees in this way. She was putting them up, yeah, believe me. You're gonna have to read a little more. Here I would like to say that this very change in the possible replacement of senior officials, which has been in fact unnecessary for me for three months now as a mayor or mayor or prime minister or Prime Minister, has been in fact unnecessary for three months. Why? Because of the fact that when I first came to this place as mayor, I decided in the future, on the contrary, as my opponents had promised in the first elections, in 1997, when I was elected as deputy mayor, and then in 1998 and 2002, it happened every time that any or even more of my competitors had the prospect of a radical replacement, removal, dismissal of employees in the municipal administration, and not just the highest officials. For this reason, I believe that my decision when I decided to try with my close and even less close associates in the congregation administration to do so is to cooperate so that we can do as much as possible for the benefit of our citizens and citizens, and together we have looked for those shortcomings that they had and that I had. I must say that there has never been a question of any political conviction by anyone or any of them, but whether he can do well and is aware that he is working in this municipality where I am the mayor, life in four years or eight years from now will be better than it was at the beginning of an individual mandate. And here I think that success was remarkable because the differences at each end of each mandate were visible, even in Slovenia. And I'm sure it's not my success, but it's the success of these people who worked with me in the community administration, who felt safe, who knew they weren't threatened every day, because I got up with my left leg, which kicked someone in the back and they had to leave, but they knew they had a vision, some future, and they could direct all their forces to good and professional work. For this reason, I cannot agree that some in the National Assembly are not afraid of the expertise of any newly appointed individuals. Of course, they are not afraid because they fear the expertise of the current high officials in the government. Besides, I find it awfully strange that someone would say that an individual official would continue to serve someone else under some cover of neutrality. Who else? Our high officials and even lower officials serve the people, so they are there! They do not serve the current authorities, and this was the purpose of this law - that all officials in a politically neutral atmosphere work for the good of the countries and citizens. To say that we are afraid for some unruly officials who, therefore, will not be hungry or thirsty if they lose their job or work in a slightly less-paid job - is not the case at all. It is the fact that this act of interference in such a law as was set forth in the basic idea that the basic principle - depoliticisation of the state administration - has been annulled. I have to say that, let's say, in this law, I liked the fact that as a mayor, I could choose closer associates who feel the same way as I do and hire them as advisors as cabinet members of the mayor's office. This opportunity is given to all of us. [[Back-up advertising.]] I must tell you that even now that we have hired the mayor's adviser, a month ago, there is no political definition, neither in the United List nor in the Liberal Democracy nor anywhere else. I have to tell you that I have not sought my fellow workers for political reasons, but according to their knowledge and their will to do something for our congregation. And so, I think the government should work when it comes to high officials when it comes to high officials. Let him see if all these high officials are really good enough in those jobs, and let him replace them if they are not of sufficient quality, but not if they are not of the same political conviction. I just need to say one more thing that seems a little strange to me. This government, together with the coalition in the National Assembly, will decide on things that will take a lot of time to change people, to check what was happening, to the last corner of each office will sweep into a pile of garbage, and to find out what is hidden in these garbage, instead of working to achieve its political and, of course, electoral goals that it has set before the elections. I'm sorry, Dr. Virant, but I have to say that I thought things would run differently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u65	Thank you, Mrs. Pecans. Mr Kovacic has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u66	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Minister, colleagues, colleagues. The amendments tabled today refer to Article 1 of the proposed amendments to the Law on Public Servants and this Article 1 is also the core or core of the proposed amendments to the whole law. This provision of Article 1 corrects, in my opinion, an inadequate solution to date, which denies the Minister the possibility of selecting his closest associates in certain top positions within the Ministry, at the position of Head of the Authority in the composition and position of the Secretary-General of the Ministry. Therefore, there must be people in positions where they are willing to cooperate with the Minister and implement his concept of managing the Ministry and, of course, also fulfil the programme of the ruling coalition. If there is someone in this place who is not willing to cooperate and work in accordance with the government programme, it is quite clear that the Minister must have all the right to replace such a person and to appoint another to this place, which has all the required expertise and competence. How else do you imagine the normal functioning of the government and individual ministries? Or perhaps those who oppose the adoption of proposed amendments to the Law on Public Servants do not want this government and its ministries to function normally, but even want the work of the government or ministries to be poor and ineffective, which they would then try to use politically to their advantage. The proposed amendment to the law is therefore the only one that makes sense, since it certainly belongs to the highest key positions in the state administration and also to the position of the Head of the Authority in the composition and position of the Secretary-General of the Ministry. These two positions certainly form a circle of those top and key public official posts, depending on how the state administration works and in this respect are at the same level as the Director-General of the Directorate and the Chief Executive of the Government Service, where such a solution, which is now proposed, is already regulated for these two other positions. That is why, of course, the Minister must have the right to choose his associates from those professionally trained people who are identified by the official council, which is an independent institution. If I did not have this right, someone with whom the Minister could not cooperate for any reason could then act contrary to the concept of the Ministry and the programme guidelines of the government coalition, which would certainly be unacceptable and harmful for the country. But as you can probably understand, we can't afford it. In Parliament, it is our job to make decisions that are for the benefit of the country, but not for the benefit of it. In doing so, we may wonder why the current inadequate legislation was adopted in the previous term. The answer, in my opinion, is very clear. The former Government was very well aware of the inadequacy of this solution, by which the working places of the Head of the Office of the Authority in the composition and the Secretary-General of the Ministry were excluded from the round of those cities which the Minister could choose for himself from qualified people. In my opinion, the previous government was very well aware of this. Therefore, the initial proposal made by the government did not contain such a solution either, but the government subsequently amended the original proposal in the previous term and excluded the two jobs from the round of those selected by the minister himself. With the amendment, the government changed that. The law was then adopted with this amendment, and the new government, through this amendment, has founded the actual cowardly egg, since the new government has set up the general secretaries of the ministries and the heads of bodies in the composition for the entire mandate period. The new government of these people, because of such legal arrangements, could not replace it. If the elections ended differently than they actually did, everything would be fine, because they themselves have named them and would continue to be politically appropriate. The purpose of the regulation, which you now defend in the LDS and the United List so vehemently, was to put the staff in certain highest places in the state administration you put five years ahead, and those on your side will be set up in these places in any case - so you guessed - regardless of the challenge of elections, either in the event of your election victory or there will be a change of power. Following this arrangement, the new authority of these politically chosen people on your part could not be replaced and they would continue to work in these places on your instructions and inform you of important internal information. Surely what I am saying now does not apply to everything. Many of these people are, I believe, willing to work properly and professionally with the new minister and the new government. However, plans to infiltrate Trojan horses into the highest official structures of the new government cannot be ruled out. That's all the more because experience shows you've already used it. For example, at the time of the Bajuk government in 2000, a certified document that came into my hands showing how the LDS leadership with its previous and current president received all relevant information, including confidential information, from a senior government official who remained in the same place during the Bajuk government. This is documented and this has happened. So, you see, this needs to be changed. The state administration must act in accordance with the direction of the current government and not any shadow government that would like to help itself with such cowardly eggs or Trojan horses, if you will. It is therefore necessary to remove and adopt the proposed amendment which will enable the functioning of the government and ministries to be effective, since, last but not least, the new government coalition is expected and demanded by the voters, who have given the former government a non-trust vote and given mandates for the management of the state to new political orientations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u67	Thank you, Mr. Kovacich. Mrs. Potter has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u68	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, Members and Members of Parliament! In my previous term, I served on the Committee on Internal Policy, which adopted the Law on Public Administration. I supported it mainly because it was based on the idea that public administration, which must be, we said, a service for all citizens. It is supposed to be based on the career system and in this law, as well as under the government law, that the number of those who would be designated as politicians to the important functions or positions in this country as beloved officials should be reduced. More and more, there should also be highly qualified officials in important places. Now that I listen to such and other discussions on the law on civil servants, I am actually in the dilemma of understanding the argument that some laws did not support it in 2002 because it was weak and incomplete. Now they claim that when they are in a different position, of course, the law that we are adopting today is the amendments and additions to this law that are minor amendments. If they were to comply with themselves, then such a law with such minor corrections should not be adopted, but they should defend the requirement to radically amend the law on public administration and public servants, because there should be a lot of change. I am leaving now on the side that the original idea of shrinking the number of political officials had a change since the government law, when the number of state secretaries, who are political officials, increased. I myself have seen the meaning of the career system just in that in a country that has no idea how much human potential - because we always say that we are too few - that those who are truly highly qualified are finally a lot. And we are also told about this by candidates for some places for high official positions in Brussels or elsewhere. And I believed that in education, I realized that people's abilities and abilities were divided across Gaussian curves and that those extreme groups were very capable and very incompetent, compared to those of the average people, that interest should be preserved and given the opportunity to exploit the human potential of the best. Now, if you'll excuse me, Slovenian literature has been called for help and that case about the goat has been said. I can also say that the same case could be used to make a statement of incompatibilities. How, though, could a person in the hierarchy have gone to a high official position if he had not already proved himself as a man capable of working on the team, capable of opening up for different solutions and finding the best within a variety of suggestions? I am a proponent of a discriminatory opinion, I am a proponent of cooperation and of seeking the best ways that officials, in their commitment and purpose, should also carry out. And last but not least, those who were named for some so controversially in 2004 were appointed or elected by the official council, elected by the official council. This is said to have met the professional criteria. Either they were now compatible with one or the other member, but I really can't say. Before that, however, I could say that I was a witness in the previous mandate of incompatibility with a high official, but that was not the reason why he was not replaced. And now, if I want to end this amendment of the law as a cure. Yes, medicines should be used according to exact dosage rules if they are to be avoided. And that is why I will support these two amendments, which, however, somehow limit the proposed law to overdose on the desire for too much change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u69	Thank you, Mrs. Potter. Mr. Sok has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u70	Thank you for your word. Mr President, fellow Members and Members of Parliament! If I listened to this debate, of course if I were a member of the opposition, I would be discussing it, of course in every way possible I would try to defend and defend it. To say that, for example, the candidate for the President of the United Kingdom remains in the highest position in the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, but the question is, of course, whether such a candidate can fulfil some coalition programme on the right of the central government, which has received this mandate and must carry out its programme, as promised. These are the issues that we are discussing today and which I feel that this law must be amended in some way in this direction, so that if the Minister finds that he is unable to carry out with some people what he is responsible for, he can also form a team around him so that he can work. As far as these two amendments are concerned, which we are currently discussing, we will not support in our parliamentary group these amendments, because this would actually miss what is the purpose of this law. This law will apply to this government and will be valid until another government coalition, when it is likely to regain the opportunity or the next term or two, has also rectified the matter in a way that it will be able to carry out what the electorate in the elections will actually entrust it with. So today we can listen to a lot of demagogies, a lot of statements in this direction, if you know what's going to happen. These statements of expertise, non-politicalism, etc. In a sense, I think the opposition can say all that. After all, I find that the media will cover all of this, show all of this in different ways, and in fact, I would not even apply today to this debate and waste my time if I did not be surprised by the writing on the front page of the paper, where it says "Theme of the Day", Mr. Glagene, "Littlest point". It is said that the government, the coalition, has not even been in this position for 100 days, and we are already at the lowest point in this country, because yesterday the majority did not vote Mrs Škrkova for the Court of Arbitration in The Hague. The journalist writes, and I must also say that he was still lying in another article when he wrote or framed me, saying that Mrs Shkrkov was responsible for not having a way out into the open sea. Slovenia has an exit to the open sea. So you're hoping, or in the best of circumstances, you're writing lies. When I called him, he apologized, and he said, "That wasn't intentional, I'll fix it." But then, of course, we're done. I told him where to read what I was talking about in the 40th Official Gazette of 2000. Let me read again because I have no choice but to defend myself in this way. See what chapter two, which helped prepare this constitutional judge, says only one sentence: "The law follows from the fact that the Republic of Slovenia has, according to its geographical position, the so-called geographically disadvantaged state, that is, a country without its epicontinental belt or sovereign rights on this belt and that according to its position the Republic of Slovenia has no option..."
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u71	Mr. Sok, the subject of the debate is well known.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u72	The main reason is that we cannot declare the outer maritime zone and the exclusive economic zone. I just want to point out how the media help create this climate and how they write. And I don't have a choice. I can't ask for any correction, but I can't do it here because I'm being warned by everyone. Mrs Beblereva, when it comes to her turn, will speak all sorts, etc., and now she is advertising here and trying to limit or prevent this statement. In view of some of the other statements that have been made here and that I have listened to today, how this change will go terribly into this professional frame and how the consequences of the adoption of this law will have extremely negative consequences. One of the discussers said that it was people who were not in the right political party and that they would then need to be replaced and that we should avoid the expression that it was political human resources. Of course not. I can warn you, and here I have to say this, look, some 50, half-centurys haven't been in the right political option, and most of the time they've only had this mistake that they were faithful and they couldn't get to any position in this country. Now you are so inhospitable in defending and explaining what this change will be, which will have a disastrous effect on the professional public, on non-politicalism, on the professionalism of the highest public officials, even though no one is saying that these officials will be replaced if they do what is necessary. Comrade Gantar, I wrote this down, warned us how different people fit into the government and how they demand that even when a government stands up, many functions be given to them, how they are given jobs, and says that the previous ruling coalition has resisted this law. What we had warned at the time of the adoption of this law was that somehow we had foreseen that a government could not, in some way if the will of the electorate were to do so, say that this government could not set up top state officials for a new government and thus cement and rescind the future policy of a government. That is why we voted against it in Novi Slovenija at the time. In fact, it is a pity that this law was adopted in that way in the national assembly. If it were not, and if former ministers had not acted in the way they did, there would certainly not be a reason for us today to talk about this law or to correct it. I'm just going to give one more case, and then I'm going to end up because there was a lot to be said about the content of the law itself. There's no Minister Gabra here. I asked him myself in this Chamber at least twice, for example, what are the arguments that certain principals of elementary schools in Slovenia who passed the appointment process, who had a positive opinion of the teaching board, who had the consent of the institution, and then Mr. Gaber wrote a letter of paper, saying, "I will not give consent, Minister Gaber." There was no way to complain. No legal instruction. Nothing. The Minister agrees that he or she will not give consent. And there was never a debate at the time that it was the Minister's political decisions. This has happened in quite a few Slovenian schools. I've asked the minister this a number of times myself. And this is just proof of some duality, that once the criteria of expertise, non-politicism are appropriate, and the second, of course, is completely different. You might say, it's been a long time between words and actions. I'm sure this government won't do that. However, if he wants to implement his programme or programme, which has won the highest legitimacy in the elections, then this government needs to be given an opportunity, just as the previous government has. This one won't be any bigger, no smaller, but it will be just like that. Just as the previous government has been able to select the highest officials and directors or leaders in the composition of the bodies, it is, of course, necessary to provide this opportunity for this government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u73	Thank you, Mr. Sok. Mr. Potch has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u74	Thank you very much. I'll do it. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u75	Excuse me, Mrs. Shirca, do you have a procedural procedure? [[...]] [[A voice in the background.]] [[...]] [[No, no, ……]] There are three more on the list, and then there's Mrs. Shirca. That's the list I have. Here you go, Mr. Potch. I'll go get the list listed here.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Mr. Virant, it may be a word, but not a personal account. We were talking about procedural issues. However, I must say that I am surprised that you are sensitive to some of the statements we have made, but at the same time you do not comment on the statements which I believe have been made specifically against your interpretation of the law. Look, I'll quote Mr. Kokal first. "Where politics begins and the profession ends, it is a matter of a political decision of the coalition. The exchange goes to that depth as long as the minister thinks." This is a justification for this law. I expected that in the face of the controversy that you had with a lot of us - not directly with me, not by the content of the computers - but, let's just say, with such statements that they clearly say that the only goal is that this government coalition thinks politically, where and where people have to change according to political criteria. I am sorry to quote my dear colleague, Franz Žnidaršič, from yesterday's press conference, where he said, "In modern democracy, there has been a lot of change in the state apparatus." Firstly, I must say that I know few such modern democracies, especially in Europe, I do not know them very much, and Mr Žnidaršič knows them very little. I know about one far across the sea, but I'm not sure it's completely comparable to our system, especially for a complex system of state structure, elections and the like. But I also know many of the democracies, which may not be what you are referring to and following - say, the issue of social partnership, social states, democracy in Scandinavian countries, where they are not thinking in this way, because the neighbouring Austria has already been mentioned. I just want to say, simplify things and point out how wonderful and nice it is to change everything on the basis of political criteria, it's probably not good. And I was counting on you to stop by and say that this is what the government that's proposing never meant, but it meant something completely different. Look at the situation we are in when we assess what is actually happening to us in these discussions since 2002 and a little back before the law is passed. One of the basic guidelines at the time was: the secretaries of state as political officials are too many, in each ministry should remain one secretary of state as a politician; it should be ensured that the minister has his narrowest cabinet, which he chooses, because it is the circle of people he works with; everything else should be senior officials. And the former secretaries of state should also become high officials and be shaped by content and knowledge in a different way. That was the direction back then. What has the new government done in this regard? First of all, in this principle, it has extended the range of State secretaries within the government. Okay. Without a limit, the number is now four or five, but it has extended the circle. She said this was an urgent need for political officials. Since they are political officials, she said that they should have the same right to return to Parliament as ministers, and she added that she had made it easier for them to gather such people who were willing to go to these places with uncertainty that they might not remain the whole mandate. When it came to the incompatibilities of these functions, she made them not for political officials, but for officials. And she interpreted under the law on local self-government that because she does not have direct powers to directly influence her congregation, it is possible to do so, although it is clear to everyone that it is a matter of political incompatibility, because such a high-ranking official also has an impact on the functioning of the cabinet and the government. When it came to the representation of these high officials in Parliament, she said no, so should they, because otherwise they are not political officials who have the right to perform in Parliament, but should be. In short, just as it suits someone, every moment things change just to satisfy some of the interests of the government. Mr. Virant, you are sensitive to any statement about your views two, three years ago and today. But your comparisons are really inappropriate. To say that the procedure for the adoption of law is such that, from the first to the last reading, all of us who participate in it should feel the same way, and to make it clear that, at first or second reading, he had one point of view, and later during the discussion in the government, in public, in the national assembly, he added this view and designed different solutions, probably beyond the logic of political and legal logic, because it is a certain procedure. And if this procedure were not also intended to ripen attitudes, then why do we have it, then it is really better that we accept everything in a one-phase manner, but Parliament has no influence. The government comes, says, and it's all over. Next, I would like to say a few more very concrete points of view. He's trying to tell us that we're afraid of losing someone's job. Really, at least as far as I'm concerned, that's not what this is about. First of all, I can read and I believe that a lot of jobs will not be lost, but will get different, whether they will be appropriate or not, is another thing, but it is not about 50 people, it is a concept of thinking that I do not like because it comes back far from what was adopted in 2002. You'll say that because of 50 or 100 people, it's not far back. It is, because it is exactly once again as much as it has been so far, and because it changes the whole concept of thinking. Secondly, Mrs. Uhanova, I'd like to tell you, and you'll believe it or, we can go see the documents. In the U.S. Charter, unfortunately, it is not here now, in the U.S. Charter, when labour legislation was adopted, when legislation on employment and unemployment insurance was adopted, and what else, explicitly, was advocated for as little work rights as possible. You have also criticized us many times from the predecessor of New Slovenia, as well as from the Liberal Democracy, as well as from the People's Party, from somewhere else, that we are overly defending rights, but we have defended them precisely because we are well aware of how difficult it is to defend the situation in these market situations and how bad it is to lose the job if the situation is. So don't report us defending 50 people in high places, but we don't care about workers. This is not the truth, and anyone who wants to tell a piece of the truth needs to check it out first. Let me tell you something. I don't know, we haven't always been successful, in one small part of the time, but I don't know how we're going to be successful with your new government and your minister, who's already predicting that it's necessary to significantly reduce the protection of rights from a working relationship, because it's necessary to ensure greater flexibility, because it's necessary to ensure that managers and business directors are able to forgive people much more freely in order to increase competitiveness and similar things. We will see what positions New Slovenia will take on these proposals, what positions Mrs Uhanova will also take, and then I will be happy if we are to find ourselves in a common language and say that labour rights must also be respected as much as possible in the context of working relations. And now in the end, Mr Sok, because you are writing, write this down again that I hope that indeed Mr Pertinac will not come into the framework that this law provides for, because if he comes into this framework, then I will have not only once, but a hundred times right when I say that this will be transferred from the first level to the second and the third level to the fourth, and that of that, who and what is politically confident or involved in any party, depending whether or not a certain government can act. However, I am not surprised by your statement, because of course it is exactly the same as the statement made with Mrs Škrkova. Because a judge and a workwoman is different than we would like to be, she must not be elected to an international institution. And Mr Pertinac, you said because the candidate for the party president, although he is not in any of the positions included in this law, must not be employed in the Ministry of Labour in this position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u77	Thank you, Mr. Run. Mr. Kokalj made contact with the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Since Mr Porč mentioned me, I would only like to respond so much to the fact that I have observed in recent days that some Members of the United List have taken on some sort of mentoring of new Members in our party, for which I would like to thank, but any good mentor has to listen well to what the mentor is telling him. The magnetogram says exactly what I said, and you've read something else, and I'm going to quote again what I said: "Where does politics end in the governing structure and the profession begins? "This is one of the key dilemmas of each ruling coalition and, at the end of its political decision." You have greatly simplified the matter and also presented it as a demagogue. Thanks for the mentoring.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u79	There's a replica of Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u80	Mr Potts is known to be very simplistic and, of course, to invent something so that he can develop his own thought. As for the reduction, Mr Ptrč, the rights have been explicitly stated several times by the Minister that we will not reduce any social rights, but that we will see how these social rights are divided when some are added together. Secondly, as regards labour market flexibility, we will support everything that will contribute to Slovenia's gaining more jobs and more job opportunities for job seekers. I didn't name Mr. Pertinac, you did. If he's gonna run a coalition program, there's no problem, of course. Of course, he will have to carry out what is enshrined in the coalition contract. But as for Mrs Škrkova, I tell you, of course, the lady did not do so, you said we voted against her because she did not do what we expect her to do. It is not true, the lady did not do what Slovenian citizens expect. Slovenian citizens went to the referendum and voted in the referendum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u81	Thank you, Mr. Sok. Mr Žnidaršič also responded to the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u82	Thank you very much. I would like to thank Mr Potz for the precise statement I made at yesterday's press conference. I have to say, it was a lapsus. I wanted to say "in some democracies," not in modern ones. And in this sense, I thank him that I can fix this. But I have to say that even though there are few now, there will be one more if we accept this, as it appears. How it will go, however, is a matter of course for the electorate in four years, when it will be possible to put everything on the table again, if someone is loved and given the opportunity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u83	Thank you, Mr. Znidarsic. Mr. Minister has made a statement. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u84	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the question of the purpose of these provisions, whether it is intended to carry out political cleansing and to intervene deeply in the structure of the public administration, once again with a single quote from my comment on the Law on Public Servants, which says so when it comes to the possibility of changing directors, municipal secretaries and all those who are also in very high positions and who can be replaced. I have written so, and exactly so now I think I will answer you with this: "The purpose of this provision is not to allow party, political separation of officials in the highest positions, but rather the human and, above all, the work co-existence of people, who, each by their own way, are political officials and officials on the path of professional choice, come to one of the key positions in the body." The provision is also based on this, i.e. this provision on the possibility of exchange, that it is for officials in whom the former Minister or Mayor himself made his last choice among candidates. That's basically the point. The former Minister had a personal choice among several qualified candidates. And there's got to be a new option.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u85	Thank you, Minister. Mr Grimes has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u86	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you. I must say that the arguments made by the current opposition, which they are referring to for the benefit of their amendments, as well as against the law, have not really convinced me. Let me illustrate this with two examples. Previously, someone vehemently argued how everyone, even at the lowest levels of the union, opposes the proposed changes. And let me ask you how this goes with this letter. It is a union of the management unit Celje, which states that many members of the union and trade unions do not agree with the positions of the management and so on, and that they believe that they should ask for a membership opinion on as important matters as it is being dealt with, and in particular they are convinced that the leadership of the union is primarily concerned with those in the highest positions, while others do not receive sufficient attention. That's part of it. That's what they say, they're in this completely opposite position. Therefore, I do not think that this argument in this part is sustainable. Secondly, the representative of the Liberal Democracy stressed that this is a problem of political neutrality and expertise. And if I link this to something that has already been pointed out in the introduction by the representative of the United Nations that everything that is said against it means nothing more than drowning, as he used the term. Let me put it this way. You know, those people who now come into the picture, if I say so, of this change of law, are largely people who have been covered by the so-called quotas known by the previous coalition. And these principles, it is said, have taken into account party representation in the division of these important functions, such as the then State Secretaries and so on, have been derived from their coalition contracts and have been made public many times. This is also said to be an obvious untruth. And if these same people are now represented after several years of doing certain jobs, jobs, as an independent and only saving profession, you know, this is just as convincing as if Mr Kocijancič were to be represented as a civil society on RTV Slovenia. If it's for one, it's for both of us, or it's not quite like that. And that's how we get to the bottom of the story. The essence of the story, in my opinion, is that we still want to maintain the level of these withdrawals, that it is primarily about protecting, in the domestic sense, certain people, and that we are facing the problem that Murphy's law, which is now more than 30 years old, is very well summed up. In fact, there is Murphy's law of political- bureaucrat career, which says that at some point everyone comes to a position that is no longer mature, and that then this situation will defend with all means and at any cost - just, kindly please, not at the expense of taxpayers, it was too much. I believe that our common goal must be to come up with solutions that will lead to an effective and people-friendly state administration. That's why, of course, I'm going to support the marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u87	Thank you, Mr Grimes. Mr. Grill has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u88	Dear Mr President, distinguished Mr Minister [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u89	Allow only intermezzo. After the completion of this list, which I have taken over, I will call once again to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u90	Dear Mr. Secretary, ladies and gentlemen! My opinion on the amendment proposed by the United List is that this amendment has no purpose, as represented by their representative in the debate. The purpose of this amendment is only to incorporate in the law legal possibilities for delaying the procedures for the dismissal of people who are not prepared to work in the implementation of the programme, which has been approved and chosen by voters and electorates. Now you obviously want to achieve that the ministers and the government will deal with justice instead of acting only in the direction of the implementation of the programme approved by the voters. Why do I think that? Any of us have had the opportunity to hold any managerial position in recent years, he probably realizes that his success was almost entirely related to his direct associates. For let him be as innovative, analytical, courageous and perceptive as ever, his success will be as great as it will be successfully realized through his associates until the last article in the business process. If we ask any successful manager who wants to have his associates around us, we would probably get some such answers: that he is expert, experienced, flexible, reliable, and especially loyal, who will believe in his vision of leadership. If a subordinate had all these qualities, it would be such an ideal that we probably find difficult in practice. However, it is certainly the loyalty of a subordinate who is in the interest of constructive and trustworthy cooperation, the property we expect and want from our fellow workers. Any manager entrusted by the owner of the company with the role of management will first form a trustworthy team of his associates and will not be hindered by the owner or even directing him to form a team. We have exactly the same case in our ministries or public administration. Voters and voters choose every four years a programme for the next four-year period that they want and is as close to their expectations as possible. After each election, however, it is a difficult task for those people who have been most trusted by the electorate to form such teams of co-workers who believe in the established programme, who are willing to submit and use all their knowledge and expertise in the implementation of the programme. The Democratic Declarations you make in the Liberal Democracy and the United List on the great professionalism and political neutrality of people in key positions in public administration are ridiculous, especially when I talk about their political neutrality. Many key positions are held by the people who were appointed to these positions during the previous government and, in addition to their expertise, was the dominant reason for their appointment primarily their political affiliation. This is that they were of the LDS or the United List or were ideologically close to them. To do so, we can now look at our parliamentary bench as evidence, we can see that Mr Cwickl, Mr Lahovnik, Mr Pavliha, was slightly less fortunate than Mrs Cerarjev, who was not elected. These are former ministers who were appointed to these places as politically undeclared and solely on the basis of expertise. At least that's what former Prime Minister Mr. Rop claimed. Obviously, the expertise they attributed to everyone was not the only criteria for a very long time, since after a few weeks you also publicly expressed your identity and also joined the LDS. I believe that a large number of people sitting in public administration, appointed by the former government, are working properly, honestly and in the interests of Slovenia, and are also prepared to use and submit their expertise to the implementation of the programme that the new government now wants to implement. Believe me, any minister or other government official is pleased to have a team of his associates recruited as soon as possible. On the basis of Mr Virant's statements, it is now known that there are already some officials and officials who do not wish to support with their expertise the implementation of the programme chosen by the electorates, but want to work against it on a case-by-case basis. But these aren't dozens, hundreds and thousands, colleagues and colleagues from LDS and the United List, because that's what you're misleading the public with. There's only one of them, and you're still in key positions. It would be correct and fair for any of those who do not believe and do not want to participate in the implementation of the new programme in order to offer its own resignation. It is difficult to rely on their expertise now, since I hope we are all concerned that expertise can be a double sword that you can abuse. As an example, an expert in the field of pharmaceuticals can produce either the medicine or the poison from the same substances. The only thing we're gonna use it for is a decision on his part. It is more than obvious that the only purpose of your demagogies, colleagues and colleagues from the United List and LDS is to deceive and intimidate the public with the facts you wish to attribute to the new government in the past 12 years, based on your established practice. Believe me, it would be much more country-friendly to encourage or even support a new government to create an appropriate human resources team and create the conditions for normal work. Only then should your opposition role become critical to monitor the work of the government and the ruling coalition and try to make constructive criticisms and the proposal to contribute to the development of our Slovenia. Let us act as you have stated, after the defeat of the elections, that you will now be a constructive opposition, which will work for the good of Slovenia. Unfortunately, in your work, it has not been detected so far. The only effort you are making is to try to make different manoeuvres to prevent the normal work of the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u91	Thank you, Mr. Grill. Mrs. Shirtz has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u92	Of course, there are many people today who rightly wonder whether, in an emergency situation, if we have such extraordinary and urgent measures at our disposal that threaten a country which, after changing the law we are amending today, has actually worked better and has also planned to do even better than before when this reform of the public administration has not yet been implemented. Before commenting on the amendment correcting or attempting to correct Article 1, I should, however, base on the broader context of this proposal, and these amendments, at the same time, touch on the recent positions of the NSI representative, who has also questioned the role of the views coming from the media at the time of this proposal. And I wonder if we have a law today at an extraordinary meeting that politicises the public sector, then after the implementation and revision of the articles in the newspaper I can ask here in the National Assembly whether we may have a law on censorship in the media at tomorrow's extraordinary session. Moreover, I wonder whether we will have a proposal for constitutional amendments tomorrow at an extraordinary meeting, after which the call for intolerance and violence will be possible without constitutional categories. This is how I understand the reactions or reactions to intolerance that are spreading these days through various posters in the National Assembly without anyone really condemning them. The Public Servants Act, which was adopted in 2002, had clear objectives and, fundamentally, what we should be asking ourselves today is why we then joined the reform of the state administration. At that time, I personally supported the marriage simply because I feel that it was an important goal. And the main objective was to distinguish between the level of political officials and the management of official posts. Until the reform adopted by the previous government, there were about 150 or more important senior government officials, political officials. Politics set them up and put them off without any special mass. By changing this goal, we are returning today. And more! We're expanding these options. The political setup and suspension without justification means a return to the Balkan way of understanding the state administration and also to hinder any development. When we embarked on public administration reforms in the previous term, we followed an important principle. And that's worth pointing out. We wanted to establish an administrative elite that would be protected against political action hunters and that would work professionally, qualitatively, unrestrainedly, fearlessly, which is very important, and beyond the scope of political reach. And the most important one to work for the public benefit, of course, on the basis of legal criteria. With this change, we're going back to the old arrangement. The only thing that distinguishes this change or proposed arrangement today from that old arrangement is the official council. This remains, but this is also a misleading factor, since the composition of the official world is such that it does not guarantee apoliticality. We know that we have 12 members, 4 are appointed by the government, 2 unions, 3 presidents of the country and 3 officials themselves, who will be in future political puppets. So the ratio of these is clear. However, I believe that policy will conduct and enter without any explanation and will direct entry and exit from public functions. Of course, the policy will replace the head of the internal authority at any time, and this will have a discretionary right to be able, on behalf of political incompatibility, to replace it so many times, vertically and to resolve it in terms of political colour. You don't have to deny it. It's just the way it is. It doesn't matter if we're talking about five, ten or two hundred or thousands of replacements. This is an irrelevant question when a spiral can be triggered downwards if it does not have fuses. The system is important. And that's important. This is a system that is not framed for a political mandate. There is therefore nothing left of the reform system that we have been implementing two years ago. Now you're pushing us back into the framework of the former, backward, maybe Yugoslav, any other regime that wasn't democratic. And she wasn't depolitical. You're ruining the reform. You will encourage the public administration, no doubt this will, given the accumulation of personnel that will take place. But above all, you will discredit her professionalism. I am not saying that we are meeting today with the optimal professional structure of staff within the public sector. But these steps that you're leading us to today and into the future, these professionalisms or, better yet, professionalizations will not be encouraged, but they will be hindered. For the professionalism of the administration can only be in one function: it can be in the public service, not in politics. Policy can always provide frameworks, forms in which the public administration operates, but does not determine how it decides. Today, it has been repeatedly heard that many are now afraid that they will not have so-called conspiracy elements within the public administration and informers, in short, a certain political option or anyone with less access to public information. I and the public are probably particularly afraid of the moment when the government is afraid that public information about public work will come to the public. Today we meet with websites that are empty information, we do not know what government, acts - regardless of whether we have passed a law on information or information of a public nature, which determines which acts, which laws and which draft laws must also be made public through portals. Today we do not have this data and this is fear, and this is not fear of opposition, it must be the fear of any citizen who sees that the government hides it and transmits its data through the trenches and, of course, organised conferences or media messages. Of course, the amendment is merely mitigating some catastrophic situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u93	Thank you, Mrs. Shirci. Mr. Slavinec has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u94	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen! Thus, the bill, as was initially explained, states that it will touch on solving the problem in the field of poor co-workers, then ensuring a greater degree of responsibility, personal and conceptual coherence, should equalise the status of the highest officials, refer also to comparison with the economy, the elimination of complex procedures and so on. Allow me to add a few thoughts myself on these matters and why I think it makes sense to support the amendment, which will certainly help to achieve these objectives. I agree, I fully agree with the fact that in the end, the Minister cannot plead that he had bad associates and that the Ministry was unsuccessful because of the failure of his subordinates. However, as long as it is estimated that someone is doing badly, that these are bad associates, that things do not work because of their unprofessional and wrong work, then they can be put off for false reasons, you do not have to do this for uncriminal reasons, because if they are bad, then this is the reason for their suspension. Then it's a responsibility guarantee. The law in this form, I think, will certainly not provide a greater degree of responsibility, but a greater degree of obedience, as it will undoubtedly exert pressure and therefore also reduce the expertise of the decisions themselves. Last but not least, he will be able to intervene in this area when the official refuses to comply with a specific instruction that is evident in violation of the law and is therefore able to be suspended. This will remind many of the well-known fact, 'but it is done', which we have been accustomed to for a year, some of whom we have put the army through, and in this case we certainly do not assess that our administration is in a state of war in order to use military procedures. Ensuring personal and conceptual coherence. Of course, we can fully agree on this, but it is important to ask how far this should go. Certainly on a political level, this is a basic condition, it is necessary. The question is how much is needed at the professional level. As a result, there is no need to mix professional and political personnel. And if we want to extend these matters to professional staff, then let us say that their expertise is, of course, closely related to the political orientations and the application of these objectives. It is very nice and right to refer to the economy, to compare administration with the economy, and it will be very good to summarise all the positive things that we can see in the economy, and in the administration that is as part of the country and we all know that the country is far from the worst host, it is exempt and does not see them. However, it is difficult then to compare the possibility of suspending one of the career directors or career officials who have come to a certain position in the public administration with a similar suspension or replacement of directors in the economy. A good economic director who would be suspended for such and other reasons has a wide range of other companies at his disposal, where he can then move as an economist. There's only one thing we have in the administration. There's no way. That's certainly why I'm having second thoughts about this comparison. However, I support, of course, the efficiency of administration, the kindness of users and that it becomes in the service of those for whom it is. By removing complicated cancellation procedures, which is, of course, the fact that things can be complained of and carried on and then also legally and formally get nasty epilogues; however, we ask ourselves what is the reason for this - that is, in the process itself. For this reason, it is certainly this way to put an end to these procedures, to change them, to make them more viable, not to change the way officials are set up and dropped. I'm sure many of you can agree with me, as well as the Minister as the author of this law, that marriage is good. For this reason, I do not think it is wise to adjust it and to change it according to current needs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u95	Thank you, Mr. Slavinz. As the list so far is exhausted, I once again call on Members who wish to discuss and have time to discuss. Janc, Mikolič, Capuder, Presencer, Potch - you have already discussed, Horvat, Pojbič, I will read in the end, Zalokar, Gantar. So those who have not yet discussed came forward: Mr Weber, Janc, Mikolić, Capuder, Presecnik, Horvat, Pojbič, Zalokar, Juban, Black. Did I let anyone go? And Mogo. Did I let anyone go? [[No, no, ……]] This is said to continue with the debate. Mr. Weber, you have the floor. Excuse me, Mr. Mikolitch.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u96	Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u97	Mr. Gantar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u98	I picked up the phone, too. Everyone's been talking. I wonder if there is a business or other provision, and I have not read it, which I can no longer discuss if the Group of Members still has time? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u99	Only once is discussed because time is also devoted to third reading if it is. And also yours, even your fellow Members, who have not yet debated, have applied for the debate. That's why we can't place you. Mr. Mikolitch, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u100	Thank you so much for your words and welcome! Look, I would like to say to my fellow Members and colleagues who advise you to amend this law, that you, in fact, are constantly alerting yourself to how you monitor and monitor the work of the government in a vigilant and small way. I must say that we are also monitoring the work of the New Slovenia Group and will also monitor the work of the Government closely. But there is a difference between you and us in that we want to enable this government to work successfully and effectively. Surely the government has not just invented the need to change the law, but rather to be able to effectively implement the programme. It would be hard to believe in a successful job if people who are closest to each other do not understand and cooperate. This is clear to everyone if not, at least to those who are or still perform important and responsible leadership functions in any organization or institution. And you, who say that you will closely monitor the work of this government - and I am also sure that you expect the government to work successfully - and in fact to this same government, or to these ministers, you are already throwing your pelts under your feet at the start because you are rejecting this change of law. I would like to give you a practical example of when you can work, when you can’t, or when you can be effective, when you can’t. You may well recall that when introducing local self-government in the first term, the President of the Municipal Council presided over the municipal council and in those local communities where the mayor and the President of the Municipal Council were not at the same wavelength or frequency, as we like to say, but I did not say it or not necessarily, in the same party, literally did nothing in that mandate. Only those who were very active and were able to do much were journalists because they were able to report public health daily. The worst part of all this was that citizens and citizens who trusted their votes were drawn shorter. And where was the solution: it was necessary to change the law, and it did. Today, I ask you whether you will accept the Minister's explanation that such or other tasks could not be carried out because, with his subordinate, director or secretary, he was not at the same wavelength. Probably not. I have to say, I wouldn't either. I must say that our interest or interest in New Slovenia is that the government will work successfully and meet the expectations of voters. But it is not our interest to listen to the disagreement between the minister and his subordinate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u101	Thank you, Mr. Mikolitch. Mr. Janc has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Dear President, distinguished Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I did not intend to report to the debate, but when I listen to this multi-annual debate, it is even more clear to me that this amendment to the law is absolutely necessary, that it is meaningful and that the continuation on 3 October, not least when the electorate and the electorate have decided to change. And these changes, which have been supported by Slovenian citizens, are certainly expected to produce some results. I believe that the new government will have to implement these changes with its programme, with its coalition that entrusted it with this mandate and at the same time impose a great responsibility on it. Of course, citizens and citizens from us expect the government to implement this programme; they have chosen this option after all. And I believe that for the decisions that the government must make with ministers and other government institutions, the condition is a good team, people who are professional, loyal and will pursue a common goal. This is perfectly normal and logical. This is also the case in every company. The owner or owner shall designate the Director, the President of the Management Board, of course with certain expectations, and he shall select a team of such and other persons, of whom he or she will cooperate, in order to meet the expectations of the owner. If he doesn't, he'll probably be replaced sooner. However, it is certain that the best supervision of this government will be at the end of the citizen and the citizens, probably in 2008, when the new elections are held. And if this government does not meet the expectations of Slovenk and the Slovenians, it will be replaced. There will be another government that will form a new team of people who will try to reintroduce the results of the elections and voters in the then elections. Of course, Mr Ptrč nodded up and down - I have fresh memories from the former government, and when the minister didn't even meet the candidate or candidate, he was already replaced. What about this? Is that normal? This has happened, and I can tell you in case you want, but I won't. I think that any minister and any responsible person who carries these important functions, the tasks given to him and entrusted to him, even in the National Assembly where we confirmed them, will certainly only be able to perform with the team he chooses; not with the team he received inherited from the previous government. This is perfectly logical and normal. I also believe that if any minister sees in these officials a good team, a good co-worker, I'm sure he won't replace it, but why would he replace it, if he's not good, but if he's not thinking otherwise, he's doing the opposite - then logically, he has to do it and that's what I think he'll do. I also believe the Minister's words when he said there would be no mass exchange, and I also believe that it will not happen when it is necessary, but it is only right to do so. The country, we all say today, must be a good service for citizens and citizens, absolutely this team must be harmonised, harmonious, must work together and, of course, if possible in this boat in which they are rowing in the same direction. This is one principle, I think, which is very important and we must respect all of us who are here today. We just have to make choices to the government, these conditions for him to choose this team, and today I believe we will give that opportunity. All of us who are present in this story will also be watching for the work of the government, so that the mission she has chosen will also be carried out for the benefit of all those citizens and citizens and those electors and voters who have also authorized me to take this place of office of the National Assembly. I believe that if there is four years of surveillance, super surveillance has come to decide whether or not we have implemented this programme; if not, a new government will come if we are, maybe we will get another mandate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u103	Thank you, Mr. Janz. Mr. Capuder has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u104	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament, Mr Minister-in-Charge. The October elections last year have shown that citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia have only one political option, which has fundamentally anchored itself in power. They have decided to make changes that they hope for and believe will be decisive and successful. By election, the government has been given a mandate to implement its programme and is, of course, responsible to its constituents, so it must also have the opportunity to influence the selection of key staff, is responsible for the work of the entire state administration and each minister is individually responsible for the situation and work in his own department. In New Slovenia, we believe that the vast majority of people in key positions in the state administration are such that ministers can find a common language with them and participate normally, but I think there are also cases where this is not likely to be the case, so, of course, the Minister must have the opportunity and this is also his right to choose the one he trusts as his closest associate and to be able to cooperate with him. In this case, of course, the narrowest co-worker will be appointed by procedure through the official council, through the call committees and by the election of the minister and the government. Therefore, the admission process has not changed at all; it remains the same and unchanged, so I cannot understand those who say that non-experts will be assigned to the responsible places. Many debates have raised the issue of interference with the existing situation and rights acquired. A representative of the trade union concerned about the rights of its intended representatives was also quite loud on the home committee. The truth between the members of the union is, I think, quite different, as we are told by the letters of membership that support the proposed amendments, in particular the possibility of replacing the general secretaries and heads of bodies in the composition. In the event that the discharge came from the state administration, the law provides him with a high and well-paid place in the state administration. In the event that he came from the outside or offered a retirement or similar place, it is said to be a paid place in the state administration. Of course, he also has to do something about it. I think that's the right solution. If the minister and his closest co-worker cannot work together, it is only the right to work in another job, where he must, of course, do his job and earn his salary. Finally, I would like to point out that the Government needs to be given the opportunity and the right to choose new co-workers through the official council if it is not able to cooperate with certain people in key places in the state administration. And that, I think, doesn't make the existing law possible. That is why I will also support amendments to the Civil Service Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u105	Thank you, Mr. Capudre. Mr. President has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u106	Yes, thank you very much for your words, Mr. President. I will be very brief because it has been a very late hour or a long time since this debate has been going on. I will, of course, support these changes in the law. It is, of course, for the President to have the option of choosing the most responsible people around him, with whom he will be able to implement a programme that he has sworn before our congregation or for which he has been elected and for which he is, of course, also responsible before the National Assembly, before the Prime Minister, before the entire team that has assumed responsibility for the next or current term, in any future term, until the matter has been amended. Of course, I also completely understand the individual ministers of the previous government, for the same reason that they came to the previous government after what we did, I can say after the expulsion of the SLS, and they dismissed some officials without even meeting them. Of course, it is for officials, for those who, after today's legislation, can be replaced or who come with the minister and also leave with the minister. Of course they are, and of course I know this very well, but for some others who are the subject of today's debate or of these changes, they have been preparing the appropriate ground to replace them for the post-election period. But that seems normal to me. I say, because it is impossible, but I have so many practices in these few years of staying in this building and in other or government buildings that I know that it is necessary to work with the most responsible people in the ministry and in the bodies in the composition in a creative and constructive manner. Of course, there are enormous problems. I therefore stress once again that these changes will be supported by me and, of course, by our Group of Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u107	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Horvath has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u108	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Honourable Members, Members, Honourable Minister, Your Honorable! The public administration system must ensure that the government can really implement a particular policy or exercise the confidence of the electorate. Here, of course, the loyalty of the governing coalition to the staff of the administration is also crucial. Each administrative system consists of politicians or political officials, saying those who come with a specific mandate for a certain period of time and in order to achieve certain political objectives. On the other hand, we have a so-called professional office which is supposed to be, in principle, a political one that creates a career and works for profit, but the system is not ideal enough to have two completely separate spheres that are not intertwined in any way, such a system would certainly not work. It is essential and logical that the professional administrative apparatus must pursue the policy which has received the majority support of citizens and citizens in the elections. We have been able to read such statements in the last days in the daily newspaper, and they have been written down by recognised Slovenian political neutral legal experts. We have also read that since the practice of modest history, changing the Slovenian authorities has forced the feeling that every time it came into power, the right has made a loud announcement of major changes in personnel and has made them much smaller. And the left one looked exactly the other way around. However, since it is certainly impossible to talk in any administrative system about the ideal state of political culture and the culture of political neutrality, it is illusory to expect general political neutrality in the state administration. When a new minister takes over a ministry, we cannot say that it is now formed by a team, a team in full meaning of the word, a team to carry out the most demanding tasks and projects. Teamwork is much more than technical cooperation and through synergies it brings much better results in a shorter time and with less stressful situations. A good team leader is always a good human resource coordinator, so the leader must be able to choose at least the key and his associates. These are the themes we've been absorbing for a long time. For example, in companies within the meaning of the Company Act. The owners shall, through the general meeting of shareholders or directly through the Supervisory Board, completely or partially replace the administration of the companies for false or non-criminal reasons. Similarly, the President of the Management Board may replace a designated Executive Director who is the weakest or weakest member of the team. In my firm opinion, the amendment of the Law on Public Servants is necessary in the proposed sense, and I will also support the bill. My colleagues from the opposition will not convince me that in the last 12 years, the authorities of the state administration have only been staffed in the professional sphere by candidates' expertise and apolitically. Who hopes to sign such a statement? Today's debate may also be an opportunity for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia to recall that in the last 12 years the apparatus of the state administration has increased by a good 15,000 people or by a good 80% to 1 January 1993 and that on 1 January last year, 33,472 people were employed by the authorities of the state administration. Although I am sure that only a few or some ten of them have been able to change the addresses to which they send their products since 3 December 2004, among other things in their work. Thus, certain materials come sooner to the shadow than to the current minister. What am I supposed to call this? Expertise, politics, speculation or roots for 12 years. These are also synergies, not shadow teams, but unfortunately not those governments that have been given a mandate by voters in recent elections and from which they expect a consistent implementation of the electoral and coalition agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u109	Thank you, Mr. Horvath. Mr. Pojbich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u110	Dear Mr President, honourable Minister Virant, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The main purpose of the proposed provisions is to align all officials in leading positions in the state administration and thus enable the government or ministers to implement their programmes effectively. The proposal for a law is short and concerns the discharge or selection of officials in the highest positions, i.e. the solution proposed to date extends the scope of the leading jobs, where it is possible to discharge for two other reasons for non-criminal reasons, or the position of the Secretary-General in the Ministry and the Head of the Authority in the composition of the Ministry. The basic law on public servants, which is one of the system laws in the field of public administration regulation, has already been based on a distinction between political and official positions, namely, this version already contained identical solutions, such as proposed by this amendment, which consistently fulfils this concept of such delimitation. The proposed solutions enable the official, for example, to resolve the public tender procedure for the selection of a new official after the appointment of the office and the finding that he is unable to participate with a designated public official. The selection is carried out by the official council and this has ensured that there will be a top professional competence first. In all official systems throughout the world, the issue of selecting officials in the highest positions, who often come in contact and cooperate with officials, is very topical. The proposed amendments represent a cross-border solution, a German-French system that ensures that the key leadership positions come to people with excellent professional competence, while at the same time allowing officials to influence the selection of officials in the highest positions they will work with. Voters have given the current government a mandate and, accordingly, the government is responsible for the work of the entire state administration and each minister is responsible for the state and work of his own department. And a few more sentences on the promotion of the public administration referred to by Mrs Shirca and on the oath of the LDS and the United Kingdom to non-political recruitment. In just one month before and two months before the elections, Anton Rop and the former government employed 1,670 people in the public sector and thereby damaged the state budget by at least two billion tolars by the end of 2004. During the 11 months of the previous year, the number of employees increased by 2,420. As many as 103 have received individual contracts, of which 91 in the last months of the regime. Is that political recruitment? Or is it political rewards for audited personnel? And now, of course, I am sure that citizens and citizens will be able to generate their views on this, on the political staffing of the previous government and on the promotion of public administration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u111	Thank you, Mr. Pojbich. Mrs. Zalokar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u112	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to your fellow colleagues and also to the Minister, Dr. Virant! I, Sir, sincerely hope that what you wish to convince us today is the truth. And that, in fact, these foretold changes will not be as extensive as we are talking about them here today, and that this will in fact be just a few cases. However, I must say that the practice of your colleagues in particular does not show this, and you may have to call them up this time and agree with them on how this recruitment or exchange takes place throughout the spirals down at individual ministries. And, of course, let me tell you some of these cases that have happened lately. Perhaps we can start with the Minister of Finance, but I will not speak my mind, but what I can read today in the editorial comment in Finance, where it says so; in fact, the title is "Bayuk, experts as an elephant with porcelain", and then some people are listed, for whom apparently in Finance, your options are very favoured by the newspaper, estimate that they are experts and that they will be needed and are already changing. Here they mention Zunič's close associate, Janez Brlet, a mathematician and computer expert who had to leave the Ministry. According to those who have already worked with him, he is one of the smartest Slovenians. Next, the Ministry of Finance also leaves an expert on the budget, Helena Kamnar. Then there is one comment, they say: "The financial ministry has a chaotic situation. His new associates, the Bayuks, don't find each other, but they don't trust the old guards." That's what the Finances say. If I continue, then, for example, with the Ministry of Health and Mr Bručan. I think we can read about some unusual moves over the last month. There are exchanges of boards of institutions, far away, I will say, down, there is no agreement to appoint a hospital director in Murska Sobota. Apparently because his work is too much, or running a hospital, politically. And finally again in the weekly newspaper, which is close to your option, today was an article on the predicted exchange of professional leadership in a clinical centre where the statutes have already been changed, so this matter has already been prepared. Well, here comes Dr. Zoran Arnez, who says, "The appointment of 60 professional guides in a clinical centre based on impression or moral fitness is a disaster." I wonder how it can be treated politically if these hunters are affected by the level of professional directors of a health institution. Next, Dr. Sturm, the Minister of Justice, has already demonstrated or has not agreed in January to appoint certain state prosecutors, fully qualified people, non-political people, who are obviously not politically compatible with the political suit in power. And the U.S. Attorneys in Celje, Koper, and so on, do not get these consents because they once ran some sort of procedure that someone obviously didn't like. Minister Vizjak - the supervisory councils are changing far before the deadline expires. You predicted you wouldn't do that. Even in some supervisory councils whose term expires in May, you cannot wait for this to be performed with some hygiene that is perfectly normal. The KAD, the SOD, Telekom said today at the government, Triglav is so constantly in the air and is only doing damage, and I think it would be better if this matter could be dealt with quickly in this case, because the insurance company is doing a lot of economic damage. All of this shall be done before the end of the term of office. The Director of the Telecommunications and Mail Agency has already been replaced; today I read that his deputy will be replaced. That was a long way down. I think it could still be listed. Mr Rupel even started procedures to recall some of the already appointed diplomats who were not supposed to be politically compatible with the suit. I think there's quite a few evidence here that I really expect you to think for yourself, but that such moves may be inappropriate, and above all the damage to the profession that we're talking about here today. Well, not to be a critic, but to be commended. However, I think it is commendable that you responded quickly and kept to the point that there is an extended period of one year's official examination, because this would cause serious problems because the deadline was so short that people of these very difficult exams were unable to complete or would not have been able to complete the deadline that would have been, I think that the end of spring was over. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u113	Thank you, Mrs. Zalokar Orzam. Mr. Juban has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u114	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! To be honest, after all these discussions, we no longer have anything to say. Everyone has identified themselves to some solutions within this law, which, on the one hand, according to the Minister's announcement, brings some light wind, some breath that will overwind some important places in the state administration, so that the man would actually agree. On the other hand, there is a tsunami forecast with two destructive waves that will cause what we fear to happen. At this stage, we are ahead of the task of assessing the amendments that are on the table, supporting them or not, and perhaps after all these discussions, a person can assess that at least we can mitigate this second destructive wave, so that the devastation is not really what we want in this country. Interesting is the debate when we say, on the one hand, that there is now a completely new option that citizens have entrusted with governance, and that there is also a need for an effective, cheaper, friendly state administration in the state administration, but I do not think that it is quite true here. It is true that the two parties are those who are newly entrusted with authority, and the two are those who are almost always or always present in the previous suit and who may not have been fully involved in economic solutions, but certainly were quite close to the staff of the staff. The discussions of colleagues from entirely new parties, government parties, also predict everything else as a trapeze. My three-time colleague said that the new suit must afford a whole new brain, which will lead the country in a different way, this is the reason that the sapica, and at least all the brains, will not be able to overwind so that I don't know how many ten officials of the state will lead to a whole new one if we want to blow the brain, I'm afraid there's going to be at least one wave of tsunami and it's not just a whisper. Many examples have been mentioned that what you do not want is already happening, and perhaps even coalition Members do not fully realize that something else is going on, as opposed to what you are predicting, saying or perhaps not wanting. But since I'm usually short, I estimate that these amendments that are on the table are at least the minimum that we should take to get one solution that is still moderate, that we really wouldn't have two devastating waves of tsunami. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u115	Thank you, Mr. Juban. Mr. Blackach has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u116	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Mr Virant, Minister of Public Administration, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I am also one of those who did not intend to come forward today in this debate because the debate was supposed to be about the amendments tabled, but because you have all somehow abused the rules of procedure and because we saw today that some of this space has been replaced by a classroom, let me say a few words about amendments and directly around the law, changes to the law. So, I don't support the amendments. In one part, I think the United List is unnecessary because it does not regulate anything and does not say anything, but everything else means that we do not need a change of law if these amendments are to be supported. I therefore do not think that they are appropriate on the substantive side and must be rejected. The amendment of the proposed law has been heard several times today, and in one part in that first part should already be part of this law, because the former government, with such provisions, has also come into the previous composition of the national assembly and then, with the amendment that it subsequently tabled, deleted this part that we have today on the table. I must say that I do not understand this enormous media and political attention one perfectly normal amendment to the law, which does not introduce any revolution that completely changes nothing and that does not destroy any system, as it is designed by the law on civil servants. Many of you have mentioned here, otherwise in the debates that we have an official council, etc., and that we have a very sharp sieve or filter that all these officials are going through, but allow me to say again that it is this official world that is the one that ensures the professionality of public administration employment, and this official council that will decide all of these to say in the slogan "positional editors" counts twelve members. Only four are appointed and proposed by the government; the mandate is six years; three are proposed by the President of the State, two unions, three are appointed by administrative workers. I see no reason to politicize this issue. This is a completely professional question, whether the new government can, with professionally highly qualified personnel, implement the programme it has set up or not. But if some people think that these people are only on one part of the political spectrum, then tell them that this means that 12 years of education is only one way, only I don't think it's leaked. I think this Slovenia has a lot of experts, young experts, who, however, give them the opportunity to show themselves. If the law is not amended, if there are no public calls for those cities that are most responsible, they will not have these options. I personally see nothing wrong with this, and I am sure that the intention of the government is good, especially because it has given itself a very difficult task. When we listened to how employment had taken place in the past years, when we heard enormous numbers. Let's see, two days ago, we had a final account for 2003, and in the Ministry of Environment and Space, in one year, exactly the year that one huge part of the assignment was transferred to the local community, they hired 145 new workers. I am not sure that it has always been the appropriateness of this employment even then in the results of this work, and I think we must also be aware in this area that it is right to get an opportunity for those who have not had it so far, who are highly qualified to be, but who must be, but is a sieve, as I have already mentioned, an official council. And the second part of this law that has been overlooked by many. Although she was mentioned by a colleague from the LDS, if this amendment is not adopted, this will not apply, but it will be an extension of the time limit for the examination. The one you've been doing, you know, it's not a simple matter. I'm a university-educated student myself, but I had a little to do to make it a while ago. And this extension of the time limit and the removal of this exam from those who are three years before retirement, which we have in the novelty of the law, is also what prevents me from supporting this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u117	Thank you, Mr. Blackach. Mr. Moge has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u118	President, thank you so much for your word. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues, nice greeting! I think that those who now support the law have often said that Europe has Christian roots. That's why I'm going to take as my case, an example from Christianity. Undoubtedly, we all know that two thousand years ago, Jesus Christ was crucified for no false reason; Pontius Pilate did not find fault with him, and he washed his hands as they drove him to the cross. And at the crucifixion he also said in distress, when he was dying, saying, Father, forgive them; for they know not what they do. If I move on. Today it is no longer a matter of living for false reasons, but it is a job that is an extremely existential category for many, with a special social note. With the adoption of the law, we will give public servants, according to cinematological, conceited and coerced, that if they want to keep their jobs, they will work on their loyalty on the principle of 'or et lab', pray and do and do not speak against what your boss has told you. This is, for the time being, dear colleagues and colleagues, an extremely conservative measure that can only be voted by conservative parties. And in this debate, which took place here, honourable Mr President - and it seems to me that my colleague was right before me - everyone was talking about everything, but very little did I hear about the innocent reasons, the content of the law or the contents of the amendments. They spoke across the board, politicized, and no one saw these people actually doing this job, and no one saw the country, everyone saw their own benefit. If I am on the government and I am trying to obtain a loyal officialship with such a measure, and if I am trying with another measure proposed by the ruling coalition to obtain obedient Members by sending some to the post of State secretaries with all rights, it seems to me that, respected colleagues and colleagues, such a measure does not seem to be a step further. The Conservatives have all the moral and other support to accept these things, but these actions will, once the law is passed, which I think will undoubtedly be, because you have enough votes to say, will have consequences that will not be pleasant for people or for the country. For this reason, Mr President, colleagues and colleagues, I will not support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u119	Thank you, Mr. Mohet. Here you go, Mr. Secretary, you have the floor. [[Back-up advertising.]] Excuse me, Mr. Virant has the floor. Then I will give the opportunity again to those groups of Members who still have enough time to apply for the floor. [[Back-up advertising.]] No, Mr. Potch, I don't have you on the list, so I read it twice. You'll get your word. Allow me to speak first, Mr. Minister, because he can come forward at any time.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u120	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Only a few short answers to some arguments and claims. Mrs Shirca, your message has been understood as it has been about this many times today: the previous government has carried out all its human resources procedures in such a way that the criteria were purely professional and only professional, there were no political criteria in this regard. Although in the end, the government, the minister and the government appointed people to key positions in the public administration, this was purely professional. Once again, in fact, you claim that you used the hammer for some fine works, but the new government will use this same hammer to crush and crush everything. This thesis is highly improbable. Next thing. Today, it has been repeatedly said that this undermines the foundations of public administration reform, to destroy public administration reform, to bring everything down and so on. Yes, today we are talking about one article of the law, which has more than 200 articles. And we're talking about the equation between one director and another director, i.e. the equation of two categories of officials for which an average person doesn't understand this finesse at all, where the difference between the director of the Directorate or the director of the body is in the composition. One more word about the amendment tabled by the United List. This amendment, in my opinion, has a similar tendency - by not saying that it is true, of course, it is speculation, at least I admit that when I look for your motives, I suppose, but I'm not sure that's true. It has one common point with the amendment tabled by the LDS on its parent working body. In fact, if we read it correctly, it shows the following message, the next wish, or the next result. All right, let these changes apply, this concept and the possibilities of exchange should apply, but for all things forward, except for this government. For those three months that you are returning through this amendment shall expire at a time that would no longer allow this law to be applied to this government. Mr. Mogue, about the jigsaw. At a time when I was Secretary of State for Home Affairs, I was in a situation where I could be resolved every day, even if it were not for Mr Pahor, I am sure that I would be resolved, as I have explained before. However, I have repeatedly hoped to tell the Minister what I think, I had no fear of being relieved, it was an opportunity that existed all the time, if the Minister had relieved me, I would have taken responsibility for it, and each of us would have told the public our own. It's a comparison to a crosshair, but I find it distasteful. If anyone has already been degraded and has suffered injustice, they have been officials who were dissolved and demolished for four or five classes in 2000 so far that they have lost their salary dramatically that most of them have left the state administration. This marriage doesn't put anyone in any kind of existential distress. This law only allows someone who is now the "great boss" to remain well-paid and high-ranking civil servant. That's the point of this marriage. There is no right to be a great boss. It could be listed, so today a lot of apples and pears are mixed up; the control councils, the saints of public institutions with this law have absolutely nothing to do with it, I think you all know that too. The human resources flowers of the previous government, however, I would think that I could have mentioned much more resiliently, a well-known case, for example, the discharges of the secretary-general of a ministry that was dissolved and degraded by four, I think that for four stages and it was a significant loss in wages; the same person who had high professional and human qualities then ran as the director of the government's staff service came through the boards of the official council as the only candidate, but of course it was never appointed. I understand that in the final stage, I understand that the Secretary-General of the Government did not want to cooperate with someone he felt would not be able to be politically neutral. All right! But those who followed such logic at the time should do so today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u121	Thank you, Minister. Mrs. Shirca and Mr. Moge responded to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u122	It is not right to make the impression that I was talking about the innocence, integrity or virginity of the previous regime before the reform. But it is because of our awareness of these imperfections that we have carried out the reform, which is why we have also supported this reform. Now that she's back in her former condition, we're wondering about her. And this is a problem because we know that reform has, however, pursued one fundamental objective, namely to separate the level of political officials between management officials and the rest of the professional work. At the same time, if we are talking about substitutions, I must say that I was surprised, I admit, and also told the former Prime Minister that he did not initiate a replacement at a time when Mr Virant, as a public servant or as an official and during the exercise of this service, was already at the time of the electoral campaign, when, in fact, the public reform you carried out within the Ministry of Internal Affairs, was a political party programme. And given that the Prime Minister has allowed this, I must say that I express his correctness in that he has put your work at the forefront, not the exploitation of your positions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u123	Thank you, Mrs. Shirci. He also has a replica of Mr. Moge. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u124	Thank you very much, President. Dear Mr. Virant! I said I'd use the cinematic term "snatcher" as a parable. That means they'll have to be quiet. And if you can get rid of one day without even knowing why, just so, with some political kitchen behind some officials, that means, believe me or not, putting in some big fear. But if I knew exactly what conditions I could or could not be resolved, then this fear is gone and there should be a state of law here. And the big difference is, Mr. Virant, what you said. As far as I know, you were the official of this government and you were the public servant of this government that we are talking about today, so your case when you're projecting is not the same as the one we're talking about here today. As far as my thing was tasteless, I'd like to remind you of that. I, by contrast, am interested in the religions of the world and have studied almost everything and even when I looked at this parable, in Jerusalem, what was happening: in the rule of law today it would not have happened. It couldn't have happened, but then it could have happened. And that's why I think it's that way, and what happened there, at least for me, is a subversive act that happened, but it's about the act that happened to pull some philosophy out of it. And I was actually talking about this philosophy of this event, which unfortunately happened at the time, and I didn't mean to offend anyone. I was just talking about facts that I just know from different books.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u125	Thank you, Mr. Mohet. Mr. Potch has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u126	Thank you very much. After the debate, I no longer have much hope that the bill, as proposed, would be adopted. Nevertheless, I think the debate was worth it. As far as I am concerned, we wanted to give some warnings, including many well-intentioned ones - the consequences, ladies and gentlemen, you will bear what they will, with full awareness of what you have done. Mr. Virant, you're telling us we want to disable the law. Be correct, say, and then not three months, but six months, and we will support this amendment, and it will not be true what you say. We only went back to the old text, the first one that this government proposed that you proposed. And if you're reading that in the Public Service Act, which was adopted for a year and a half, there have been changes -- you've changed them in 14 days; you've changed them in 14 days; from the proposal to have six months' deadlines you went to 4 years in 14 days. Third. Mr Grill assessed the wickedness of our amendment regarding the need for everyone to have a decision to be justified in having the right to appeal. I would like to say that we do not consider this to be our own decision, but we did explicitly follow Dr. Pirnat, a recognized legal expert who said, "I am not saying that it is political change, but that it is not acceptable in my opinion, but what is expected are, for example, at least two sides of the explanation, why the resolution occurred and, of course, legal instruction that an administrative dispute is allowed against the decision." We wanted to enforce it into the law, and we wrote it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u127	Thank you for your word. Members from the parliamentary group who have not yet spoken have the advantage of joining groups who still have time to sign up. They have so far raised their hands for the additional: Mr Pavliha, Mr Gulič, Mr Gantar and Mr Štebe. Anyone else from the parliamentary group who has time available? Lover. Anyone else? Friday, Sayovic. Thank you. Mr. Pavlich has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u128	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Nice greeting from this town, too. As a lawyer myself, of course, I will not use pharmaceutical, natural and other arguments, I will try to discuss "ad rem" and not "ad personam". Last but not least, I have too little time in politics that I don't know what to say if I haven't done anything good in the last few months, I'm sure I'm nothing bad because I'm too little time in this story. But I would like to say why I will support the two amendments, because for a few hours, if I am not mistaken, the debate is on this. I will support them because of the two concerns I have regarding the proposal for amendments and the amendment of the Law on Public Servants. The first point concerns the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Commission. I have to say that when I started working in the National Assembly, I was pleasantly surprised at the quality of this service, and I also give them all the recognition that I think is too public. Because earlier, as a lawyer behind the bar, I would say that I had a questionable view of the quality of their work, and then I see that most of their opinions were on various committees, where we also participate in those we know a little bit better in the legal profession. Why not in this case? I have carefully read their opinion several times, and it is clear that we are reminded of at least one danger of unconstitutionality; the danger that Dr. Pirnat is talking about, which I am sure is deeply respected by both Dr. Virant and my trifle. In fact, it is possible, I will say, a violation, a possible breach, because of the possibility of unconstitutionality of course can be judged - I hope that it can still be judged after yesterday's outcome, only by the Constitutional Court, for possible interference in the principle of confidence in law and for possible violation of the principle of the prohibition of retroactive interference with acquired rights. So there are two principles that have been still in place in other areas lately. Let us just remember the controversy over the compatibility and incompatibilities of the parliamentary and academic work, as well as the other part of the mayoral work, there are some such cases. At the very least, what we should do as a national assembly is to give the matter a little bit more time to reconsider and determine whether this danger of unconstitutionality really exists or whether we will, of course, be given a decision tomorrow by the Constitutional Court, by which this law or amendment of the law will be repealed. The second thought, which, of course, stings me and burns me from yesterday, is that of which the President of the Constitutional Court spoke today. In fact, if what did not happen was not to be elected, I apologize to Professor Bohtet, a relatively irrelevant international function - so we cannot be on the list of the permanent arbitral tribunal equal to being a judge of an international court, we can be on the list for years and years, and the question is whether the parties will decide that you will participate in the arbitration. In this case, to someone, in particular Dr. Skrk, we read the action or trial for what was actually elected and for what he does as a constitutional judge, this suggests the danger of illustration or political cleansing. I say, I may have been naive, but until yesterday I kind of believed, but I will say to the government or the ruling coalition that this will not happen; after yesterday, I regret God, ladies and gentlemen, but, of course, this doubt is even more pronounced in terms of the outcome of the vote, so I will vote in favour of the adoption of both amendments, which, at least to some extent, resolve all the concerns described. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u129	Thank you, Mr. Pavlich. Mr. Saiovic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u130	Thank you very much. It's been a long day, I don't think we're going to find any hot water, but even though I'm listening to it, it comes to mind the words of my old mother, she's often said that no matter what color the chicken is, it's important that she lays the eggs. On the one hand, it has been heard today about many mistakes in the recruitment of the LDS, and I am afraid that this is because obviously many of our mistakes and mistakes you are repeating today also on the other hand, but of course in the light of the progress and development of democracy I will support the amendment we have prepared in our party, as did the colleagues in the United List. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u131	Thank you, Mr. Sayovic. Mr. Minister has made a statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u132	Thank you. Well, it was relatively late that this constitutional debate opened up, if I may say so, which we did not pay so little attention to. Already in the drafting of the law, we were aware of the need to ask ourselves this question, what does it mean that this law also affects those who are in their positions at the time of its entry into force. The legal and legal service puts itself in a position which, according to my expert opinion, is problematic. In fact, she said something like this: it is an intervention in the position acquired or in the expectations acquired, which is why this is constitutionally controversial. Anyone who studied the decisions of the Constitutional Court in this area would see that the infringements of existing legal relations are not inherently unconstitutional, that these interventions are permissible under certain conditions - if they have a valid justification and if, on the other hand, the scales are of some time frame or any cancellation. And in this case, we have assessed as proposing that this distinction, which it receives, is either the continuation of the post for an indefinite period of time with a relatively high title in the State Administration or the remuneration of a fifth of the salary for the remainder of the term, is sufficient to offset. So we have not ignored the problems of interference with existing positions in existing positions. More than that, we've considered, we've decided that this is the right thing to do, that it's enough to compensate for this loss. That's why I also find that no one would explicitly say that this novel is unconstitutional, nor did the legal and legal service say that, nor did Dr Pirnat say that. Everyone's just holding a security guard just in case the Constitutional Court decides otherwise that it wouldn't have turned out that we weren't right. But we had this responsibility to propose that we consider what is to be given to the solved, and we have assessed that this is the right one. That's it for now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u133	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Gantar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u134	I will try to be very brief, Mr President. Of course I'll support both amendments. I can tell you that I have been involved in public life for a long time, I have experienced many things, and I also have a long memory. What I am concerned about these discussions by the positions of Members is the language that has been heard and seen many times - Trojan horses that are in the administration that issue and harm the higher targets; the vast majority of officials are good, but they are also those that want to harm us - new governments, guidelines; officials who need to know the coalition contract, as they once had to know some other documents This language is the language of the former regime and the language of the leaded times of the 1970s. [[...]] And that's just paradoxical, you are symbolically and otherwise distanced from the previous regime, and at the same time, through the back door, the language, the way of thinking, the mentality from which you want to distance yourself. Think carefully about the sound of the words that you are speaking and about which you are speaking. That's what I'd say. Today is also a government meeting. At today's meeting, it is likely that the decision will fall, or it has already fallen, on the extraordinary Assembly of Telekom Slovenije. At this congregation, they are likely to be replaced [[End warning sign]] - I will immediately finish - the Telekom Slovenije supervisory council, which will probably replace the administration of Telekom Slovenije. Well, when you do, be aware that none of the people who will be replaced is a member of the LDS. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u135	Thank you, Mr. Gantar. Mr Ljublješek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u136	Thank you for your word. Your Honors are here! I really didn't intend to come forward today for this debate, but it did point me to this when I got the feeling that we just don't know how to listen and that we speak each other's language. I will try to repeat as little as possible the things that have already been said. Nevertheless, I would like to comment on this from my point of view. Look. It seems to me that this amendment to the law, basically one article, is extremely clear. It is clear that the proposed law complements the law in force in order to align the highest officials with the possibilities of a solution without any ground in key places in the state administration. That's clear. This is already the case for the Directors-General of the Ministries, the Chiefs of Government and the Directors of Municipal Administrations. However, it does not apply to the Secretary-General of the Ministry and to the Head of the Authority in the composition of the Ministry. This is practically the case for the majority, except for these two jobs. It's just not understandable to me. What are these two jobs, who are these people, who are these saints, who are really untouchable? Moreover, I am surprised that the previous government has already proposed the same law in the first reading and has removed these two areas of work from the law here in the second term. All others can be dealt with for no fault, these two are irreplaceable, no matter how well they do. I just want to draw some parallel between the government and the economy. There are perfectly clear rules in the economy. He appoints the Supervisory Board or appoints the Director, the Director selects his team - and they get a mandate. As long as they're doing good, it's okay. When the train starts rolling down, it gets the president of the board or the director of the trustless and falls off the whole team. Which is normal. The same rule should apply in my logic to the state administration. Why not? Why not? I never get that answer. In explanation of the amendment by the United Nations Group of Members, which was given on the home work body, the argument was that by supplementing the law, I quote, "public servants will potentially be subject to the new politically-written criteria". End of quote. With such careful reading of the law's completion nowhere, indeed nowhere, I emphasize, nowhere, I have found the politically written criteria. Since the Minister is responsible for the work of the Ministry and the implementation of the programme and objectives set, and because he can be called off at any time by interpolation, I have no doubt that he wants to work with experts who will help him in his work, and he will not be able to have political staff. Political criteria in the profession have nothing to look for and they're gone. They're gone. If not, tell me where they're written! At a meeting of the committee, my opposition colleague pointed out to me that, as an economist - unfortunately, I am from the economy and probably not appreciated - I just don't understand these things, you know, it's different in the public administration. I'm asking what's different. It is difficult to understand the incomprehensible things that seem to be understood in their own way by politicians who are constantly working in politics. They are therefore understood by the fact that there is an economy on the one hand and, on the other hand, a public administration or public administration. However, each party is subject to different rules: for the first labour market - yes, for others - no. Why the Minister, the Director of the Municipal Administration, the Director-General of the Ministry, the President of the Government Service - may be suspended, for this reason, I would say, the labour market - but the Secretary-General of the Ministry and the Chairman of the Authority in the composition of the Ministry cannot be suspended. Why not? What's the logic here? Actually, I don't know what these functions are either. All I know is they're top officials. I mean, at least that's how I think we're barely touched by the knowledge of how many businesses have recently gone bankrupt, how many workers have gone out of work or are threatened to lose work in the near future. 50,000 workers, due not only to the global situation in the world, but also to the long-standing rule of the Liberal Democracy, the United List. They did not respond in time to changing world situations. These are real problems for me. And the new government, not guilty or guilty, will be able to solve this problem. And she'll be able to save them if she has the right conditions. This seems to be of no vital importance to both opposition parties. More importantly, in public administration, a high official would not be reassigned to another job if he does not respond if he is not good, if he is not professional, if he is not communicative, if he does not have a teamwork, but if he forgives someone who would already be a blasphemous act. I am convinced that democracy is also based on the fact that all people in this country are also interchangeable, that no one is untouchable and even less irreplaceable. To be as successful as a country as we want to be, all successful and unsuccessful projects should have their name and surname. That not all things are as beautiful and right in the public administration as the opposition colleagues wish to show them, it also confirms, among other things, the information in the State Defence Report, which we have considered on the labour force for 2003. That the total value of the cases dealt with is where companies and individuals claim compensation from the country, which is about 950 billion tolars. There's something wrong with that. I do not expect opposition colleagues and colleagues to agree with my opinions, but I would like you to be honest in making the arguments, the same vats should apply to everyone in the country: both in public administration and in the economy. If someone is replaced or assigned to another job in the State Administration and the Minister is therefore able to form an expert team to implement and implement the objectives of the government programme, this will be the most appropriate. The current government will, I am sure, appoint experts, top managers of the public administration, who will go through the board of competitions of the official council and then the minister will choose individuals according to his opinion. This will achieve the desired operational efficiency of the ministry and government as a whole and good team cooperation of the top management team of individual ministries. The responsibility of the Minister and the key top professional staff in his team will also be clearly defined. I'll support this law myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u137	Thank you, Mr. Ljubeljska. Mr. Steba has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u138	Dear Mr. Secretary! Looks like he went for a drink because he's been here all day without lunch or a drink. Dear colleagues and colleagues! First, on the amendments of the Liberal Democracy and the United List. I do not understand this first, because the importance of the amendment is already enshrined in the basic text of the amendment of the law. In the context of the amendment of the United Nations Charter, I believe that it is essentially complicated and will cause, if there is no other puzzle, only delaying and delaying the final decision. I myself experienced something similar ten years ago when, after the second complaint of a rather unjustifiable assignment to a fully professionally inadequate job in the state administration, I complained twice about the second complaint, and there was no possibility of just exercising my rights through the court, which, in fact, when such a relationship takes place between superiors and subordinates, makes no sense. And in such a case, it is better to give in and accept the relationship and the reasons that are explained or not. I think that Dr Virant or the Government has made it quite clear that the purpose of supplementing this law is simply to allow for the replacement of secretaries-generals and heads of bodies in the composition, only in the event of the inability to cooperate with the Chief State Secretary or Minister. It is, as it is said, simple to trust and effectively implement government policies, and the current substitution procedures are unproductive and exhausting, and proof of incompetence is, in fact, impossible - in the case of professional mating of this failure. The inability to cooperate is certainly not a welcome reminder of professionally controversial thinking. Dr. Gaber felt that the subordinates should not, even in cases where they felt so, alert their superiors to their thinking and professional viewpoints. However, the problem is the possibility of deceiving superiors with professionally controversial advice, products that may be at the top still in conflict with plans, with government policies and values. If there is no confidence in the correctness and professionality of the actions envisaged, then it is impossible to make decisions effectively and it is not possible for all the advice provided by the supposed persons, all the advice given by the subordinates, pardon, cannot be verified. The basis and essence of a good work is trust and trust. Expertise usually offers more options, then it is based on policies, ethical principles and the direction of the organisation, i.e. the body, the ministry or the government. It is impossible to answer for a subordinate if there is no trust in him or if he is not actually accepted or gathered. We have had a discussion in the media, or how the Minister or Prime Minister should be responsible for the work of the police, and when its Director, an autonomous in the sense that he understands and allows him to do the current legislation, can directly and publicly oppose the superior or even that such an unpolitical, professional official unlawfully takes away the documentation from the Ministry, as was the case at the time of the Bajuk government. It is essential that the intended person chooses his direct subordinates and then assumes full responsibility. That I should also go to the bottom of a debate, as has been the case here quite often. Madam Mayor's colleague from Domžal mentions the matter, which is recorded in today's Finances. For reasons of trust, Mr Zunič brought himself a computer player from the New Ljubljana Bank, the information system is, you know, the heart of the functioning of modern organisations, and this is certainly a reflection and envisaged action on the information system of the Ministry of Finance of the current Minister of Finance. This information system, by the way, had no support for managing the development programme plan before a bad year, which I do not know is how important things are for the municipalities. However, we read about the company that produces the Ministry of Finance programmes years ago that it is linked to high government officials. That's it. The tsunami is caused by uncontrolled tectonic movements or by the Creator’s anger over mankind’s actions. Both are due to non-conformity, not to say, mistrust, but also to intentional actions by unknown opposing forces, which in this way want to take effect. First, the government is aware, and the second, we should all be aware. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u139	Thank you, Mr. Stebeth. Anyone else want some of the parliamentary groups that have time at their disposal? Mr. Ficko, Root, Rugelj. Mr. Ficko, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u140	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. I don't want to hear from you, but this week, it's been heard a lot: Murska Sobota Hospital and the appointment of the director of this hospital so there won't be a misunderstanding. This matter has nothing to do with the law under consideration today. There it was the course of the mandate, the normal appointment procedure, where the Council of the Institute was very politically motivated, that is, he did not listen to the Minister and made his own decision, but the Minister used an instrument which the legislation provided for consent or non-consent in this case. I don't know who passed such a law, I assume your coalition. And now I don't know how we would have prevented the current minister from using this instrument: giving or not giving consent. On Monday, the Minister said very clearly that the current candidate, who did not receive the Minister's support or consent, had the opportunity to run again. The invitation to tender will be very soon, in short, the invitation to tender may already be under way and will have the opportunity to be selected. He'll have a chance. Well, let me touch this law, too. For two months now, it is said, at work in Ljubljana; twice I was at the offices of state officials. And they both warned me if I could be a little quieter. I have this professional deformity, I come from school, I want to be loud so the students can hear me. Why should I be quiet? The information seems to be coming out of the house and I should be so aware of it that it would be good for both of us. It doesn't make any sense to me. It doesn't make any sense to me how the Minister is, I don't know what's at all, mainly Minister of the Shadow Government, Mr Cwickl, two days ago in the event that he told us that there is no representative of the Ministry of Finance at the end of the account, which he knew was what they were doing at the Ministry of Finance - that everyone on the Internet was monitoring the meeting of the National Assembly. I don't know what the motives were for this official at the Ministry of Finance, whether it's professional or political, to inform this minister in the shadows of what they're doing. And there's something else I'd like to add. My layman's legal explanation of legal expectation. When I took my driver's license, I paid for it, like everyone else, I guess, I was expecting to be able to drive 60 kilometers through the village forever. And it happened that now I can only drive 50 kilometers. Well, the law is in force, and this law will be in force from now on, I suppose. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u141	Thank you, Mr. Fick. Mr. Koren has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u142	Mr President, Mr Minister, fellow Members and Members of Parliament! I've been in public administration for 20 years. I got a job as a young expert, a university degree in geodesy engineering. The then administration also worked professionally in its field of expertise. And the leadership was 100% political. And it's very political. Most of the employees, but surely all the leaders, were or had to be members of the Communist Union. Then came a very interesting period when the system changed in Slovenia. Some quickly turned 100%, some were unable to accept the change and left. But the administration at the lowest level has always acted professionally or as professionally as the applicable legislation has allowed. I would hope to say that the non-professional work of the administration is mainly due to bad laws, such as those adopted by Parliament. I will give two examples: the building law and the law on regulating the premises, which are new laws. Today we are talking about the selection of high officials. The highest professional officials must also act professionally, professionally. However, each government wants to rule by trying to achieve its government agenda as consistently as possible. It will be difficult for the current government to implement its programme with the highest officials who have implemented the LDS programme until yesterday, which was not so small but very extensive, and it is difficult to replace the entire programme in their head in one day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u143	Thank you, Mr. Root. Mr Rugelj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u144	Thank you, Mr. President Tuckati. Good-bye, everybody! If I'm the last debater, I'm calling it off and I'll explain my vote later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u145	Thank you. I think that was the last debater. Before I conclude the debate, I also give the floor to a representative of the government who still has the opportunity to debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u146	Thank you. I'll try to put in a little cheering tone. Lately, politics has upset some bad movie, but I remember, and a lot of you probably, too, some very high-quality British women wearing the title "yes, minister". Although this was a humorous nuance, she had a very serious point. In fact, she wanted to show how high-level government officials, with their knowledge, expertise, information and sustainability, could actually lead their leaders, who were entrusted with a mandate, who were thirsty over water. The main hero of this hoodlum, Sir Humphrey, if you remember him, was a government official from a memorial, a lot of ministers changed, and he stayed and he nodded to every minister and always said, "Yes, minister," but in the end, she was always in charge of his.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u147	Thank you, Minister. Please, Mr. President, do you have a procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u148	Yes, I have a procedural proposal. In accordance with Rule 73 of the Rules of Procedure, I request a 15-minute recess before deciding on the amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u149	Thank you. As you have heard, I will order a 15-minute recess before deciding. That is why we are now moving on to explanations of vote. After explanations of vote, there will be a 15-minute recess before the vote. Anybody want to explain their voice? I warn you, we are not voting on the law because this is not yet the third issue, but on the amendments. First, we will vote on the amendment of the United List of Social Democrats. Who wants to explain the vote before the vote on this amendment? Mr. Weber. Anyone else? [[Nobody.]] Mr. Weber, you have the floor to explain your voice. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u150	Thank you for your word. What I find flawed in this law is that I think the amendment of the United List is really trying to eliminate, namely, it is the fact that the law makes it arbitral, so for no reason whatsoever, to change the legal position of an individual and it is certainly a procedure that does not belong to the process of democracy. I am of the opinion that the amendment will, of course, allow the decision to at least verify the reasons and, of course, also the procedures and justification for such a decision. In fact, I believe that we must avoid to the greatest extent the excessive party influence on the leadership of the country, regardless of the coalition and the election result, because the services you provide are provided to all citizens and citizens and not only to members of one or the other party. And, of course, if we do not allow arbitral or arbitral decision-making, of course, it also makes it possible to exercise personal, narrow personal interests, which certainly is not good. I therefore believe it is appropriate to support this amendment and to avoid these narrow solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u151	Thank you. Once again, do I call on anyone to explain their vote on the amendment of the United Nations? Rugelj. Anyone else? Here you go, Mr. Rugelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u152	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll explain my vote on the change of law, my resignation from the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u153	That'll be later. This concludes the voice-explanatory phase. I interrupt the session in 15 minutes, it's a real meeting, it's 13 minutes past four o'clock, 16.13.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u154	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! We are proceeding with a meeting of the National Assembly. I invite Mr. President - or if you would like to explain your conclusion. Don't you?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u155	I can explain. So we discussed mainly support or non-support for amendments. Our decision is to support the amendment of the LDS Club, otherwise with a slightly different explanation. Because we believe that certain functions can be run by people from the outside, not from these official circles. And that on the occasion of the end of this term or post for which they will be appointed, some will likely want to return to where they came from. In this way, of course, they will be able to make this transition back significantly easier for them. And they will also - above all, this is the point - rather decide on challenging functions, responsible functions in the state administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u156	Thank you. We are therefore moving to a vote on the amendment to Article 1 as presented by the Group of Members of the United Nations Social Democrats. We're voting. The vote is under way. 79 Members and Members are present. There were 26 votes against 52. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 52.]] The amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to the vote of the amendment to Article 1 as proposed by the Liberal Democracy Group. Anybody want to explain their voice? Mrs. Lavtinger Bebler, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u157	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In fact, I would like to explain this amendment, which we will support in our Group of Members, because that is why we have tabled it. Its purpose, however, is to ease at least a little the solution proposed in the second paragraph of this Article. In this sense, when it comes to the unvulnerable dismissal of an official, the chairman would then be willing to offer the official a second job instead of his maternity leave, in order to allow the official to agree or agree in this case. And it seems to us that, despite the fact that the matter is bad, we will ease it slightly with this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u158	Thank you, Mrs. Lavtiger Bebler. Anybody else want to explain their voice? No, no, no. We are moving to a vote on the amendment, as tabled by the Liberal Democracy.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u159	Procedurally. I'd like to hear the government's opinion.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u160	No, no, no. The government can no longer give its opinion. We're already in the voting phase.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u161	A representative of the government.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u162	Excuse me. Check the cards. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. Votes are running. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 68 votes against 7. [[The vote was 68.]] [[Against 7.]] The amendment was accepted. I am concluding the second reading and moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted the amendment to Article 1 of the amended bill. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table an amendment to this article? If not, then I find that no amendments were tabled in the third reading. On the basis of Article 140, paragraph 5, I inform you that the legislative and legal service has not informed me that the law would not have been harmonised because of the amendments adopted. I ask the representative of the government whether the government representative finds that there would be any discrepancy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u163	Dear Mr. President. First of all, I must say that the Government supports this amendment, although for other reasons or with a different explanation as a proponent. In fact, people from outside often run for leadership positions and decide to run for major cities and be ready to join the state administration for a while and then leave. And in terms of motivational factors, the motivational factor for obtaining excellent personnel from the private sector, this amendment has convinced us for reasons other than those cited by the amendment's proponents. With regard to non-compliance, the provision of Article 3 of the Act, which had already provided for such a regime for those in position at the time of the entry into force of this Act, is slightly less relevant, but we believe that this Article 3 will not cause any confusion or harm and that no harmonisation amendment is necessary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u164	Thank you. We're moving on to a decision on the law. Anybody want to explain their voice? Mrs. Bebler, Mr. School, Mr. Rugelj, Mr. Potsch, have I released anyone? No, no, no. Here you go, Mrs. Lavtigzar Bebler. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u165	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So we are very pleased in our parliamentary group that our amendment has been adopted. Nevertheless, we express great dissatisfaction that the other amendment tabled by the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats has not been adopted, because it is our view that these two amendments are substantively linked and that they are only collectively improving the text of this main article, which is now in the procedure for admission. Therefore, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, our Group requests a 15-minute recess before deciding on the law in order to consult with the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u166	Thank you. We continue to explain, then we will stop before the vote. Mr. Sculpture? He's quitting. Mr. Rugelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u167	Thank you, Mr. President. Have a nice hello to everyone again. Today we've heard so much expertise that if we could eat it, we'd all be a lot tougher here. That's all I'd say. I will support this law, precisely because it allows for expertise in public administration. Because it is right that an expert who works in public administration can be replaced. And I doubt any minister would replace a man who really works professionally. But for those who will deal with politics instead of expertise, I think it's right for the Minister to have a chance to replace them. That's why I'm going to support the marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u168	Thank you, Mr. Ruggle. Mr. Run, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u169	Thank you very much. We will not support the bill in the United List of Social Democrats. The reason for this is the renewed increased politicisation of the administration. Not to keep professional people from coming, maybe they will, but they'll come with the right professional people. Also, tenders will no longer be submitted by those who know in advance that they have no choice, because they must be with the correct membership card. Sadly, this is the truth that will be revealed in the course of the implementation of the law. All the debates you have had have shown that it is an express desire to choose the staff according to political beliefs and political criteria. We have warned you against these statements, you have been so sincere or so naive that you have also told them directly, and in magnetograms this stands. Another time. We have also tried to point out, in addition to the political objective of the law, that the law can be constitutionally controversial and to ease some constitutional solutions. You have not agreed to this and we are convinced that there are many issues in this law, which constitute an infringement of the rights expected, and that is why it is justified to ask the question of the constitutionality of the law and certain solutions. The adoption of the amendment of the Liberal Democracy is welcome for some specific people, but unfortunately it does not reduce this fundamental problem of questionable constitutionality. And even for this reason, the law cannot be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u170	Thank you, Mr. Run. Another time I'm asking, does anyone want to explain their voice? Mr. Kumer and Mr. Gulic. Anyone else? [[Nobody.]] Mr. Kumer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u171	Thank you so much for saying that. I will not support the amendment of the law for one reason. Indeed, the multi-annual debate did not convince me that the circumstances, such or otherwise, have changed since the end of 2002 and 2003 to suggest that the law should be amended in this direction. And in the end, there's something else. There's no government called a government that's politically non-staffed. What is important is what you give first emphasis to — professionalism and second place of politics or the emphasis on political pedigree or loyalty. And this change, of course, speaks of this first. That is why I will not support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u172	Thank you. Mr Gulic has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u173	Dear President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. In fact, I still hesitate about this law because of what I have said before. In fact, it is a matter of imposing too much of the so-called uncriminal reasons. In fact, those of us who have ever experienced this know very well what can be brought through this too open door. Both amendments, of course, in some way, did contain this: one was accepted, the other was not, so that the door remained so very open that under conceptual compatibility or incompatibility it can get everything together, as I said before. The point is that this is not only about winning one party or one coalition, but also about making the country a prey. Now, if you will, of course, continue to convince me, then the matter is possible, or else I will decide as I see fit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u174	Thank you. Ms. Lavtijar Bebler, because you are not the leader of the Group of Members, I ask you, did you request an interruption on behalf of the Group of Members? Thank you. Then I interrupt the session and we continue it at 4:45 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u175	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! We're continuing our session. I ask the LDS representative to explain, if he so wishes, the position taken at this time. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u176	Thank you very much, Mr. President. As a representative of the LDS Group, I would like to explain the outcome of our consultation. We have found that, of course, we cannot support the law, even though our amendment has been adopted. Earlier, I had previously stressed that we consider both the amendments, both the United Letters and ours, to be an integrated whole. And even by adopting our amendment, there was no law reform in the sense that something significantly less bad and unacceptable to us than it is. The distinction between policy and expertise is still blurring; we still insist that this amendment makes it possible to further politicise the state administration, and thus we also deviate from the initial observations we have followed through the reform of the state administration. In particular, we are still concerned about the issue, in our view of the controversy, of this law according to the Constitution. We still believe that this law is controversial in terms of ensuring the rule of law and prohibiting retroactive application of the rules. So our parliamentary group will therefore vote against this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-02-24-SDZ4-Izredna-07.ana.u177	Thank you. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. The vote is under way. 79 Members and Members are present. There were 53 votes against 26. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against 26.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this item of the agenda and also the extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Have a nice weekend!
