ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u1	Dear colleagues, if you will please take your seats! I begin the continuation of the 2nd meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and cannot attend today's meeting of the following Members and Members: Dimitrij Kovacic, Mrs Darja Lavtijar Bebler, Mr Branko Marinič by 11 a.m., Mr Milan Petek, Mr Jakob Presečnik and Mr Matjaž Švagan. We're moving to seven. PERFORMANCE OF THE AMENDMENT AND SUPPLEMENTATION OF THE FUND FOR THE FINANCING OF INVIDENTIAL AND HUMANITARIAN ORGANIZATIONS IN THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA. The total declared time for discussion shall be approximately one hour. The Foundation’s amendments and additions to the Foundation’s rules were submitted to the Council by the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia. I give my word to the director of the Magi Foundation. A flower of Uršič for a complementary explanation. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u2	Mr President, honourable Members of Parliament! The Foundation was established to finance the operation of disabled and humanitarian organisations in the Republic of Slovenia. Thus, resources derived from concession fees for gambling are earmarked for additional support or assistance to the most vulnerable groups of people, such as disabled people, people with chronic diseases, people in social and psycho social distress and problems, and people who have crossed the poverty threshold, for their social inclusion, for raising the quality of their lives or for having the same opportunities on their way through life. These funds are practically the only stable and sustainable source of income for these organisations and these users. The foundation of all the years of its operation, and with all responsibility, I can claim this for the last year of its operation, which I am the Director of the Foundation, is responsible for fulfilling this mission. This does not only mean that it operates legally, but that funds are needed prudently and rationally to ensure the transparency of the use of funds by organisations and so on. For example, last year alone, we improved internal control procedures and changed the reporting forms for the use of funds. Based on a critical analysis of the operation of the Foundation, the evaluation of the disability and humanitarian organisations and their programmes financed by the Foundation, the conclusion of the audit report carried out by the Foundation by the Court of Auditors in 2003, I stress that the final opinion of the Court of Auditors, taking into account the response report prepared by the Foundation, was positive and, of course, has established the law on disability organisations and the law on humanitarian organisations, the Foundation has prepared a proposal for amendments and the completion of the rules on the functioning of the Foundation and the rules and conditions for the use of funds of the Foundation. Allow me to briefly explain the proposed amendments to the Foundation's rules on this point. The Foundation Council, just for the introduction, considered this proposal for amendments and additions at its 9th meeting on 18 May last year and sent materials to both documents, first of all stressing the rules, in agreement with the National Assembly. Amendments and additions to the Foundation's rules are as follows: Article 1 is editorial. It is a change of the title of the foundation seat from Trubarje Street to Stegne in Ljubljana. Article 2 is to comply with both laws, i.e. the Disability Act and the Humanitarian Organizations Act. Article 3 is also mainly or only compliance with both laws. Article 5 of the proposal for additions sets out more clearly how the election of the members of the committees or the President of the commissions or their alternates takes place. However, the main points are Article 6 of the amendment proposal and Article 9. Article 6 speaks of the Supervisory Committee at the Foundation. Article 6 states that the Foundation Council appoints three members of the Supervisory Committee from established experts proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, national disability organisations and humanitarian organisations. To this end, external control of the operation of the Foundation is therefore increasing. Article 9 speaks of the implementation of internal control over the use of funds in disability and humanitarian organisations. With a more transparent, more in-depth and more comparable control over the use of funds than other funds allocated to them, whether they are budgetary resources or municipal funds or donations, we therefore want to improve or ensure greater transparency over the use of funds. Articles 10 and 11, I apologize, are only talking about transitional provisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u3	Thank you for the report. The amendments and additions to the rules were considered by the Labour, Family and Social Affairs Committee as the parent working body. I ask the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Brenčič, to submit or present a report to the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u4	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I very much welcome the representatives of the Foundation and representatives of the government, as well as you colleagues and fellow Members. At its 1st regular meeting on 12.1.2005, the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons considered a proposal to amend and supplement the rules of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled Humanitarian Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia, submitted by the FIHO Foundation to the National Assembly. Representatives of the proposer, the Director of the Mag Foundation, participated in the work of the Committee. Council of Uršič, President of the Foundation Council Mr Janko Kušar, representative of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, as well as some representatives of disability organisations. The Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia adopted amendments and additions to FIHA rules on 8.7. On the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, it adopted appropriate amendments and amendments. The corresponding corrected text with additional explanations was forwarded on 15.7. last year for the approval of the National Assembly. The legal and legal service for the corrected material had no comments. The Committee was also informed of the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for Social Activities and of the comments of the company Vision and the comments of the association on the theory and culture of handicap. Following an introductory presentation of the proposal for amendments to this Act, a position was established in the longer debate that the Committee, while proposing to the national assembly, would agree to amend and supplement this act, but most discussers agreed that radical changes in this area would be needed in the future. However, in order for these changes to take place, it will be necessary to amend the Law on Property Conversion of the Lottery of Slovenia and consequently the decree establishing a Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations. The largest number of comments was on the composition of the members of the Foundation's Board, since of the 27 members appointed, there are 25 members of the FIHA direct beneficiaries. Therefore, there may be a conflict of interest and incompatibilities of functions as the current method of allocation of funds to the majority of bidders in the FIHA tender allows them to directly decide on the allocation of funds, are direct and indirect users of funds and participate in the programme evaluation commissions and make proposals for the allocation of these funds. It is also questionable to take into account the criteria for the allocation of funds of the Foundation and the equal treatment of beneficiaries of these funds. The members of the expert committees should be experts in the field of public tendering for the allocation of funds of the Foundation and should not be interested in the users of those funds. Some discussers also pointed to Article 36 of the amendments and the addition of rules, which provides for the supervision of the Foundation over the use of dedicated funds to disabled and humanitarian organisations for operations, for the implementation of programmes and services, and for investments in funding from the Foundation. However, the composition of this committee is questionable. In addition, the arrangements for the implementation of the control to be governed by the rules for the exercise of control adopted by the Foundation's Council. The members of the Committee agreed that this area should be fully regulated and that the allocation and use of resources should be transparent. They also agreed that the proposed amendments to the Foundation's acts were necessary, although insufficient, but at the same time the majority of the members of the Committee also felt that the Committee, despite all the changes to the Foundation's acts, was proposing to the National Assembly in agreement. It therefore adopted a decision proposing to the National Assembly to agree to amend and supplement the rules of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia. In addition, the Committee adopted an additional decision proposing to the Government to submit a proposal for amendments to the National Assembly as soon as possible and to supplement the law on the property transformation of the Lottery of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u5	Thank you, Mr. Brenčich. Since the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has not signed up for the debate, we are moving on to a presentation of the views of the parliamentary groups. I would like to take the floor of the House of Members of the Liberal Democracy of Mr Germić.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u6	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, for your word. Dear members of the Foundation, representative of the Ministry. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The National Assembly shall, on the basis of the law on the property transformation of the Lottery of Slovenia and on the basis of the decision establishing the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations, give its consent to the rules or amendments and additions to the rules of the Foundation. The amendments and additions to the Foundation's rules are due to the adoption of new legislation on the provision of disability protection and the functioning of humanitarian organisations. These are mainly laws on disability and humanitarian organisations, which also concern the operation of the FIHO Foundation in certain parts. In particular, amendments and additions to the rules are submitted as a result of recommendations or requests from the Court of Auditors which issued an opinion with reservation for the Foundation’s work for 2001 and 2002. The proposals for amendments and the Foundation's rules complement the proposed solutions in the light of the requirements of the Court of Auditors and relate in particular to the failure to provide for the separation of the functions of the Foundation and the supervision of the Foundation's work, which has also been the basis for a number of years for a series of criticism of the operation of the Foundation by certain disability and humanitarian organisations. Criticism is the result of the fact that the Foundation Council, which in fact runs all the procedures for the allocation of funds of the Foundation, is composed of representatives of disability and humanitarian organisations, who are also consumers of most of the funds of the Foundation. The Council shall also play a decisive role in the appointment of the Supervisory Committee. Although the proposal for amendments to the rules introduces a different possible composition of the Supervisory Committee, according to the proposer, which is finally still appointed by the Foundation Council. The text of Article 6 of the amendments and the addition of rules, which introduces in the rules a new Article 36a, which obliges the Foundation to ensure, through its authorities and the professional services or the authorised professional organisation, that the use of funds allocated to disabled persons and humanitarian organisations will be monitored only by the adoption of a regulation that will more precisely regulate the exercise of control. This Regulation will be adopted again by the Foundation's Council. In the Liberal Democracy Club, we are aware that the proposed changes and additions represent only a minor step forward in the operation of the Foundation and in ensuring greater transparency in sharing, consumption, control [[....]] [[Incomprehensible.]] Foundations and still do not resolve the fundamental issue defined in the Law on Property Conversion of the Lottery of Slovenia and the Decision establishing a Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia. This is how the law defines the composition of the Council, which is mostly represented by the representatives of the disability and humanitarian organisations that have been now, and it is expected that, to a large extent, there will also be beneficiaries of the Foundation's funds in the future. Therefore, in the Liberal Democracy Club, with the support of the proposed amendments and additions to the Foundation's rules, which they consider necessary but not sufficient, we will also support the additional decision of the Committee on Labour, Family and Social Affairs and the disabled, which proposes to the Government that, by amending the Law on the Property Conversion of the Lottery of Slovenia and as a consequence of the amendments to other acts, it will provide conditions for the transparent sharing and use of funds and which will eliminate any suspicion of conflict of interest and incompatibility of the functions of the Foundation and its control. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u7	Thank you. I call on the representative of the United List of Social Democrats, Mr Han. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u8	Honourable Vice President, representatives of the Foundation, the government, colleagues and colleagues! Since this and the next item are substantively linked, I will present in the presentation of the position of the Group of Members the definition of the United List of Social Democrats, both to the proposed amendments and to complement the rules of the Foundation for the financing of disability and humanitarian organisations, as well as the proposed amendments and to supplement the rules on the conditions for the use of funds of the Foundation. The UK Group of Social Democrats has always paid a lot of attention to the disabled and has been the vehicle of a number of initiatives and proposals that have in practice improved the situation of people with disabilities. In the next mandate, we intend to maintain the same commitment to addressing the issue in this area. The proposed amendments and additions to the Fund's funding rules for disability and humanitarian organisations and the rules on the conditions for the use of funds of the Foundation are due to legal provisions and the findings of the Court of Auditors. Since we can only confirm the proposed changes and additions in the package, we will support them in the United Nations Group of Social Democrats. Although serious concerns have also been expressed in the discussion at the meetings of the parent working body and in the written positions of some disability organisations, which deserve attention. The United List of Social Democrats advocates a society that will offer people with disabilities the opportunity to make creative use of those mental and physical capacities that have been preserved by their lives so that they can contribute to their own well-being as healthy people. The current funding arrangements for disabled and humanitarian organisations also seem to us to be advanced, as they leave concern for the allocation of disability funds to themselves through the relevant authorities. Concerned, however, were raised that certain disability organisations are unduly privileged in their representation in bodies and in the distribution of funds. In the Group of Members of the United Nations Social Democrats, we hope that representatives of disabled organisations will find a compromise through a patient and open dialogue themselves, without unnecessary interference by the State, that will satisfy everything as much as possible. Most importantly, the Foundation’s funds will be used as usefully as possible for the benefit of disabled users. In summary, the proposed amendments and additions to the funding rules of the Foundation for Disability and Humanitarian Organisations and the rules on the conditions for the use of funds of the Foundation represent some progress, but they are part of everyone's satisfaction with them. Since the National Assembly does not have the opportunity to recast the amendments or proposed amendments and additions, we will support the proposed amendments and additions as they are in the parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u9	Thank you for the report. I invite the representative of New Slovenia, mag. Franca Capudra.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u10	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament. The Fund’s rules on the financing of disability and humanitarian organisations in the Republic of Slovenia were adopted in 1998 and were first supplemented in 1999. In 2002, a law on disability organisations and a law on humanitarian organisations was adopted to regulate the functioning of these organisations. The amendments to the Foundation's rules were sent to Parliament for agreement last year, just before the parliamentary elections, in particular on the basis of the findings of the Court of Auditors on the operation of the Foundation in 2001 and 2002. In its positive report, the Court of Auditors, with reservations, found that there were no major irregularities at the Foundation’s work that would affect the nature of the financial operation of the Foundation. In its report, however, it made a number of recommendations concerning the operation and internal control of the Foundation, in particular as regards the non-compliance of simultaneous membership in the Supervisory Committee and the Foundation's Council. The proposal to amend the rules of the Foundation shall take into account the recommendations of the Court of Auditors concerning supervision in the Foundation itself and the supervision to be carried out by the Foundation over fundholders. The amendment provides that a member of the Supervisory Board shall appoint a Board of the Foundation on a proposal from the Government. However, in the new article 36, it defines the control that the Foundation must exercise through its authorities and professional services over the recipients of the Foundation's funds. Amendments to the Foundation's rules shall be supported by the home working body of the National Assembly. The legislative and legal service also gave a positive opinion on the amendments. In Novi Slovenija we are aware, and this was also the position of the Committee on Labour, Family and Social Affairs, and what was also evident from the debate itself on this committee was that two basic documents, the law on the property transformation of the Lottery of Slovenia and the decision on the establishment of the FIHO Foundation, should be amended accordingly in order to fully address the problem of the operation of the FIHO Foundation. In the Group of Members, we hope that these changes in the rules will help the Foundation to function more transparently and to the satisfaction of all users of the Foundation's funds. Of course, we will support the changes and additions to the rules of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia in our parliamentary group, while at the same time supporting the Committee's additional decision on the early amendments to the Law on Property Conversion of the Lottery of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u11	Thank you, Master Capuder. In my words, I invite Mr Stanislav Brenčič to present the position of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u12	Thank you for saying that again. In the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group, we are certainly very much in favour of the state, or rather, state budget based on the law on the property transformation of the Lottery of Slovenia knowingly waived the work of public funds in favour of the FIHO Foundation, through which it was provided for the financing of disabled humanitarian and charitable organisations a reliable and lasting source of funds to manage and dispose of the Foundation itself, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity. To this end, the Council of the Foundation, whose composition is laid down in Article 10 of the Law on the Property Conversion of Lottery of Slovenia, was obliged to adopt, firstly, an act called the Rules for the Financing of Disabled, Humanitarian Organisations and, on this basis, an implementing act, that is, the Rules on the Criteria and Conditions for the Use of the Funds of this Foundation, and, of course, also to refer them to the National Assembly, which has given its consent to both acts. On the basis of the national assembly adopted by the Law on Disability Organisations and the Law on Humanitarian and Charity Organisations, it is necessary, if nothing else, to bring both acts into line with the provisions of both laws. The subject matter by the FIHO Council of amendments submitted and the completion of the rules resolves this non-compliance and to some extent also takes into account the warnings by the Court of Auditors, which reviewed the financial operations of the Foundation last spring. The Slovenian People's Party Group believes that, given that the National Assembly has adopted both laws and previous laws on the property transformation of the Lotaria Slovenije and the decision establishing the FIHA, it is incumbent on the content of the regulation to give its consent, so we will also support the proposal for a decision forwarded to the National Assembly by the national working body. Notwithstanding the fact that we are proponents of the principle of subsidiarity and self-regulation in an area, we remain firmly committed to the need for a comprehensive redesign of the organisation and functioning of the FIHO Foundation, focusing on the establishment of a neutrality mechanism, both in assessing the situation and functioning of individual disability organisations or humanitarian organisations and charities, as well as in setting criteria for assessing and evaluating their programmes. In particular, it is necessary to introduce changes in the procedures for direct allocation of financial resources, as those who have been following the ever-increasing contradictions and suspicions that accompany the annual distribution of funds cannot go beyond the fact that the whole story gets too intertwined with the same actors, so to speak, form and adopt acts of foundations, assess and evaluate programmes, allocate financial resources and, at the top of that, also exercise control over the use of these funds. It may be said that we have a simplified view of all this situation, but we do not need to go beyond the fact that is correctly set out in the Court's notice when the Foundation's financial operations were reviewed. This practice cannot be addressed directly by amending the rules on financing of a disability-humanitarian organisation, the rules on the criteria for the use of these funds, but first the law on the property transformation of the Loteria Slovenije, which provides the basis for the formation of all further acts of the Foundation, while maintaining the autonomy of the Foundation, while establishing transparency and neutrality in the operation of the Foundation in the allocation of funds and effective control over their use. All of this, however, begins by establishing the composition of the foundation's council, which is governed by the law in Article 10 of the Law on the Conversion of the Lottery of Slovenia, so far sets it as it is, so this law needs to be amended. We therefore expect, in the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group, that in the interests of the FIHO Foundation, the Government prepares, as soon as possible, a proposal for amendments to the Law on Property Conversion of the Lottery of Slovenia and submits it to the National Assembly for consideration and acceptance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u13	Mr Brenčič, thank you for taking note of the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group of Members. I invite the representative of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group, Barbara Žgajner-Tavš.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u14	Thank you so much for saying that. Today's debate on the amendments and additions to the rules of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia will also be summarized in conjunction with the next item, i.e. amendments and additions to the Rules on the criteria and conditions for the use of funds from the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia. I will say that the debates that take place in this Chamber are usually full of good words and excessive humanity. Regrettably, the work of the most zealous, of course, advocates of social rights and equality or equality is often only excessive pluralism or populism, which can only be accompanied by bitter taste. I will not touch on individual humanitarian affairs, but I must mention that the same people have passed a law on corporate income tax, which indirectly destroys the special status and purpose of disabled companies, that the same people have opposed the novelties of the Slovenian National Party Act, which legitimizes that the blind and the dog guide have the right to enter all public institutions and premises. Even though this is a minor change that has no negative consequences for society, it is vital for a person who is dependent on such assistance or such a thing. Duplicity, dear gentlemen, you can also see from the September 2003 magnetograms. And let me not forget the efforts of the United List of Social Democrats to literally bring down the amendments of the Slovenian National Party, which would allow the disabled of all categories the choice to be included in employment and, of course, active social life. So much for equality. We do not yet have, and lastly not, the unwarranted beginning of a new government, which, already on the first parliamentary questions and initiatives, specifically, did not respond within a certain time frame to the government's initiative to adopt a law on mental health. I fear that as long as such inadequate political will prevails, there will also be areas such as the financing of disability and humanitarian organisations that are inadequately regulated. We have already heard today that the points addressed are, as a consequence, amendments to the law on disability organisations and the law on humanitarian organisations and, last but not least, the audit report of the Court of Auditors. However, in accordance with the decision establishing the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations, such amendments must also be agreed upon by the National Assembly. The fact is, because financial resources are shared, there is usually disagreements, even in cases where they are limited. Of course, on the other hand, the reason lies in the incomplete legal provisions. It is also always a questionable control over the distribution of these funds, which will not be fully satisfied with today's corrections and will therefore need to be rooted in the area itself. At the same meeting of the parent working body, a number of comments were heard by the various representatives of the disabled society, which did not essentially relate to the changes in the existing rules of the Foundation for the financing of disability and humanitarian organisations, as well as to the rules on the criteria and conditions for the use of funds of the Foundation. Representatives of these organisations have highlighted the shortcomings in both regulations, which unfortunately will not be addressed today by the National Assembly, because, as I have already said, they are not subject to today's changes, but will, of course, continue to have an impact on incomplete regulation in this area. We can therefore conclude from this that the area should be covered, so that today we can only talk about so-called beauty corrections, which nevertheless bring at least partial improvements in the allocation of funds between disability and humanitarian organisations and, of course, in the control of the distribution of this money. The proposed text thus amends the ratio of beneficiaries of funds between disability organisations and humanitarian organisations for the benefit of the latter. Because time is chasing me, let me just finish. In the Parliamentary Joint Slovenian National Party, we will not oppose the conclusions on the consent of the National Assembly to the said acts, nor will we, of course, also support the decision taken by the mother labour body. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u15	Thank you for the interesting position. I would like to invite the representative of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mrs Alenko Jeraj, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u16	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Representatives of the government and foundations, colleagues and colleagues. The amendments and additions to the rules of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia and the Rules on the Criteria and Conditions for the Use of Funds of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia, which will be discussed in the next two points, relate mainly to the modification of the criteria for the allocation of funds, the change in the allocation of funds for the benefit of humanitarian organisations and the more comprehensive and detailed control over the use of allocated funds. The proposed amendments were prepared by the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations on the basis of the recommendations and requirements of the Court of Auditors, which drew attention to certain inconsistencies and made recommendations when reviewing the operation of the Foundation. Amendments and additions to the Foundation's rules bring changes to the status of disabled and humanitarian organisations, based on the law on disability organisations and the law on humanitarian organisations. The proposed document also introduces changes in the election of the chairman of the Foundation Commission, whose election will require an absolute and no longer relative majority of the members of the Commission. It is also important that the amendment, which has been made up of three members of the Council so far, is referred to by the three members appointed by the Board of Supervisors in the field of disability, social and health care on the basis of proposals from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, disability organisations operating at the national level and humanitarian organisations. The article on meetings and travel costs is also amended. In addition to the members of the Board, the new provision provides that the members of the Supervisory Board shall also be entitled to meetings and reimbursements of travel expenses. Article 36 is new, which introduces a more comprehensive and more detailed control over the use of funds allocated to disabled and humanitarian organisations and, in the case of reasonable doubt as to the correctness and legality of the use of such funds, allows the Foundation to initiate a financial control procedure with the competent authorities. The detailed arrangements for the exercise of control are governed by the rules adopted by the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia. We must not forget, however, that the European Disability Forum, when visiting its top representatives in Slovenia, has over the past three years made a very high assessment of the functioning and implementation of specific social programmes and the way in which they are financed. On the occasion of the talks and, on this occasion, press conferences were convened, they stressed that such a level of disability is not only comparable to that of EU members, but also an example for many. Therefore, it would be pointless to break good practices, but rather to upgrade existing and existing disability and humanitarian organisations and foundations, let us demand more benefit from the funds invested in these programmes, in order to include more users in existing programmes, to introduce cost rationalisation, while at the same time enhancing their offer by ways that will be most appropriate for individual types of disability and disease. In the future, it would be better to monitor more closely the use of resources, which also entails changes and additions to the rules and regulations, through analyses, reports and on-site verifications of implementation. Specific social programmes are intended for users and their opinion will therefore be decisive in the future. Disability and humanitarian organisations are implementing these programmes and the final objective is users. More attention would also be given in the future to implementation and results achieved on the ground, i.e. users across the country. The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group supports the amendments and the addition of the rules of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u17	Thank you, too, for this position of the Group of Members. In view of the fact that we have concluded or exhausted the agenda of the representatives of the groups of Members, the debate follows. On the list is the first reported Mrs. Cveta Zalokar Orazem. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u18	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Before us are amendments and additions to two acts that have a significant impact on the distribution of three billion Slovenian tolars. In fact, by deliberately canceling the budget source of income to the disability and humanitarian organisations or to the programmes implemented by these organisations, the State Assembly has assumed the responsibility of overseeing their prudent and fair sharing and spending years ago. During all this time, as a Member, I have been repeatedly confronted with the views of different individuals and individuals and organisations, both those receiving funds and those who have failed to do so, that they have been united in that the funds of the Foundation are not shared fairly, because they have unjustifiably applied the monopoly position of certain organisations, and that the relationship between the disabled and the humanitarian organisations with regard to the funds received is unfair, that, above all, in the disability organisations, only a few more than 50% is devoted to social programmes and too much investment. The dispute is the composition of the bodies that decide on the allocation of funds, as the conflict of interest has not been resolved. In fact, this puts all disabled and humanitarian organisations that do not have their representatives in the FIHO world, but can run for funds, in an obviously unequal position, because, unlike those represented in the FIHO world, they cannot participate in the setting of criteria and conditions for the use of funds and in the allocation of funds. In addition, the current regime produces a situation in which allocation arrangements between members of the Council have priority over allocating funds on the basis of programmes, as many of the recipients also decide on their allocation. All these claims were confirmed by the Court of Auditors in the FIHO audit report on the regularity of operation of the FIHO Foundation in 2001 and 2002 in 2004, which found that FIHO had not objectively assessed the programmes of the disabled and humanitarian organisations and had allocated funds to the companies without having examined in sufficient detail the costs of their operation and the needs of the beneficiaries of those funds. Furthermore, FIHO has allocated additional funds without creating appropriate criteria to ensure that FIHO does not provide an adequate review of the allocation and use of funds, as it did not record and demonstrate funding for individual purposes and that FIHO did not ensure separation of performance and control functions, which increases the risk of its operations. Since these irregularities were identified in the audit of operations, FIHO had to submit a response report within 70 days of receipt of this report, corrective measures had to relate to the development of new criteria of the Foundation for the evaluation of programmes and the allocation of funds that would specify the programmes and costs that would burden social co-financing programmes, the functioning of organisations and their investments, and certain standards for the evaluation of programmes and the provision of equal conditions, the addition of the rules on criteria and conditions for the use of FIHO funds, the arrangements for accounting records, the initiation of procedures for the change of membership in the Foundation bodies which would ensure the implementation of the principle of non-compliance of functions. The proposal for amendments and the completion of the consent acts to which the National Assembly is to be issued today should therefore be a step towards remedying these shortcomings and irregularities. First of all, let me stress that I am pleased that the change also brings a changed relationship between the funds allocated to disabled and humanitarian organisations, from 25:75 to 35 for humanitarian and 65 for disability organisations, which is certainly a step forward and I welcome it. Unfortunately, however, we must find that all the other changes and additions that the Court of Auditors so called for are more or less cosmetic in nature and remain in purely principled and general dictions. However, these still allow a wide range of interpretations and manipulations and do not eliminate conflicts of interest, do not introduce sufficient methodology for the allocation of funds and, last but not least, do not violate the principles of the tendering institute. If I am more specific: the proposed changes and additions do not specify the criteria and the conditions for the allocation of funds, but leave them too loose, ambiguous and unclear. It would make sense, for example, to use the already developed methodology used by the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs or the municipalities, for example, the Municipality of Ljubljana, which would be easier for applicants, as they would fulfil programmes for different financiers on the same forms. The Ministry's methodology is, in my opinion, good and would also be more effective and significantly clearer than the current situation. In this regard, it is also important that the so-called user clock is very clear and that the effectiveness values and the usefulness of each programme, or that it determines how many hours of programming assistance users actually have from the programme or better, how many hours of programming assistance each year some programme actually offers and provides. The proposed changes and additions do not introduce evaluations which are an important indicator of improvements on one hand and irregularities on the other. It should also be made clear that the members of the committees deciding on the allocation of funds should not be employed or in the management of the organisations receiving the funds, as is the case now, clearly showing a conflict of interest. It should also be clearly stated that the members of the Foundation's Supervisory Committee should be experts in the field of social protection, health or finance, not members of organisations - recipients of funds from the Foundation or not perform any functions within the recipient organisations. The relationship between financing or co-financing of specific social programmes and services and the functioning of organisations should also be clearly defined. In this regard, I should add that 25% of the funds for investment in and maintenance of fixed assets are very large and should be reduced to a maximum of 10 to 15%, because I believe that investment in human beings is more important than investment in walls and roofs. Unfortunately, the proposed amendments and additions are not such as to bring about real changes in order to respond sufficiently and appropriately to the Court of Auditors' findings. It is obvious that we will not conclude this chapter today. I hope that this is the case, regardless of the outcome of the vote on consent to these two acts, and that in these two important documents, it will also need to be cut somewhat more seriously and substantively in the future. In doing so it will be necessary, as has been pointed out and found on the committee, to return to the starting point by consensus, that is to the law on the property transformation of the Lottery of Slovenia and to change relations in the FIHO world, which are now completely inadequate in terms of conflicts of interest and incompatibility of functions, which has also been clearly pointed out by the Court of Auditors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u19	Thank you, Ambassador Orzmov. However, I would like to take the floor by inviting the proposer. [[No, no, ……]] Then I would like to point out that we have 14 minutes left for this point. On the basis of the Rules of Procedure, I ask whether there is an interest between Members and Members that even those who have not been reported so far will apply for a debate on this point. Since I do not see interest and desire, I apologize, Mr Štebe you have 5 minutes, and this is also the only debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. As a member of the Committee, I would point out, however, the findings that have also been made at the meeting of the Committee, that, in addition to all these changes that should be made in the substantive sense, it will be necessary to cut into the legislation on humanitarian and disability organisations alone, and to find out, in some way, what belongs to disability organisations, to persons with disabilities, to what constitutes humanitarianism and what lies under health or health, and to sort of regulate matters and to define them in a way that they will be more transparent and that there will somehow not be any of these inadequacies that are present today. I am counting on the government, which has actually inherited this irregular situation from the past decade, to approach it in a comprehensive and orderly manner, in my opinion, so that we may have only humanitarian organisations, and that in relation to the disabled, which is of particular concern, to the health sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u21	Thank you. This concludes the debate. On the proposal for a decision on the agreement to amend and supplement the rules of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia, we will decide, in accordance with the time frame of the meeting, today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 8th item of the agenda or at the latest at the time set for the vote. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 8. POINT - REVISION OF THE AMENDMENT AND SUPPORT OF THE RULES OF CRITERIA AND THE CONDITIONS FOR THE USE OF THE FUND FOR THE FINANCING OF INJURY AND HUMANITARIAN ORGANISATIONS IN THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA. In doing so, I would like to inform you that the total time of discussion foreseen for this item is 55 minutes. Amendments and additions to the Regulation were submitted to the National Assembly by the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia. I give my word to the director of the Magi Foundation. A flower of Uršič for a complementary explanation. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u22	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament. The Foundation in 2005 financed 79 disabled and humanitarian organisations, of which 21 were disabled and 55 were humanitarian organisations. The number of organisations running for funds and also meeting the conditions for their acquisition is increasing from year to year. In addition, I would like to point out that almost half of the people or citizens of Slovenia meet at least once in their lives with any of these organisations and are or are beneficiaries of their programmes and services. Let me just list some organisations funded by the Foundation. These are classic charities such as Karitas, the Red Cross or the EHO supporter, these are disability organizations involving people with different types of disabilities, these are different societies that offer programs and services to people with experience of mental illness, these are different societies that implement programs to help addicts, these are different societies of chronic patients, from patients after heart surgery, with lung cancer and so on. We know that these organisations implement programmes and services that have a significant impact on social security and the quality of life of all users, not just members of organisations. It is therefore quite clear what the Fund’s resources mean for users of these services or programmes. I stress what I have already said in the introduction, the resources received by users or programmes provided by companies or organisations financed by the Foundation cannot be replaced by funds from other sources. That is why we are very aware of the responsibilities that the state has set before us when we finance these organisations. We are very aware of our responsibility and fully support the arrangements that guarantee the Foundation's autonomy. At the same time, we strongly support the regime that requires or ensures transparency in the acquisition of funds and in the use of funds. We support arrangements that provide such criteria and such criteria that are comparable to those of other organisations or that finance such organisations, or programmes: whether they are ministries, whether they are municipalities, or whether they are individual donors. We have also drawn up a proposal for amendments, supplementing the rules on the criteria and conditions for the use of the Foundation's funds. I would point out first of all Article 1 of the amendments and the additions, in which the relationship between the funds acquired by disabled and humanitarian organisations is otherwise regulated. The new split ratio is 65% in favour of the disabled and 35 in favour of humanitarian organisations. Article 2 regulates the monthly allocation of funds. As a rule, organisations are expected to receive funds every month. It is also important that Article 6 provides for criteria for the allocation of funds. These criteria, as you can see, are divided into several groups: common, general criteria, i.e. criteria that ensure rationality, prudence, efficiency, economy, reciprocity and solidarity in the allocation of funds. Then there are common criteria and we continue with specific criteria for disabled organisations, for financing specific social programmes, specific criteria for financing the social programmes of humanitarian organisations, and in the end, we have developed in particular the criteria for financing the operation of these organisations and the specific criteria for financing investment. Article 11 of the proposal on internal control is also important. We insist that there must be always and everywhere control over the use of funds provided by the Foundation. If these funds are used inadvertently, then the financing as provided for in paragraph 2 of this Article must also be stopped. These are fundamental changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u23	Thank you, Mr. Ursich. However, amendments and additions to the Regulation were treated by the Committee on Labour, Family and Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities as a parent working body. I therefore ask once again the Chairman of the Committee, Stanislav Brenčič, to submit a report.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u24	Thank you very much. This act, too, is a regulation on the criteria and conditions for the use of funds from the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations, the Committee considered the same as the previous document at the same meeting, i.e. at its 1st regular meeting. It is difficult to present something special in this report, given that the practical subject matter of this Regulation has been drowned both in the debate and in the presentation of the conclusions at the time of the preceding point. Therefore, I should just say that the Committee has also decided here to propose to the National Assembly that it agree with the Foundation Council on the criteria and conditions for the use of the Foundation's funds. And as with the previous point, when we discussed this document, we proposed to the government that a proposal be prepared as soon as possible for amendments to the law on the property transformation of Loteria Slovenije. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u25	Thank you, Mr. Brenčich. As for the previous item, the government is not declared for discussion but is present at the hearing. If you think you need a word, I will, of course, give it to you as chairman. We are now moving on to a presentation on the views of the Group. The first is the representative of New Slovenia, mag. Franz Capuder, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u26	The funds of the Foundation acquired by disability and humanitarian organisations are intended to provide, through their programmes, the environment and conditions in which persons with disabilities live and are intended to achieve noble human rights objectives in the areas of social and health care carried out by humanitarian organisations in the form of programmes and services for the direct benefit of individuals. As mentioned earlier today, the Court of Auditors in its report on the functioning of the Foundation for 2001 and 2002 requested the collection of new criteria of the Foundation for the evaluation of programmes and the allocation of funds to disabled and humanitarian organisations, and a supplement to the Regulation, which will clearly specify the procedures for the allocation of additional funds and ensure the transparency of decisions, also in terms of the purpose of the application of FIHO Foundation funds. In the period since the establishment of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia, there has been a trend towards an increase in the number of humanitarian organisations, including the fact that patients with various diseases have started to organize themselves in their societies, which, after all, is based on the Law on Humanitarian Organizations. All these facts have led the Foundation Council to adopt amendments to the Rules of Procedure on the criteria and conditions for the use of the Foundation funds and to send them to the National Assembly for confirmation. In view of the debate in the Home Committee, representatives of disabled and humanitarian organisations in the world unanimously support the allocation of 65% of the Foundation's funds for disabled persons and 35% for humanitarian organisations. Although it was also pointed out in the debate itself that the percentage of division should not be fixed but could vary. A key element in the amendments and additions to the Regulation is further Article 6 which discusses the criteria for the allocation of funds and Article 11 of the amendments and additions, where it is clearly stated that disability and humanitarian organisations are obliged to provide the Foundation, in the exercise of supervision, with a view to providing an overview throughout the documentation on the implementation of programmes and services and the availability of funds obtained by the Foundation. On the parent committee, without voting against the proposed amendments and additions, and also in the New Slovenia Group, we will support amendments and additions to the rules on the criteria and conditions for the use of funds from the Foundation for the financing of disability and humanitarian organisations in the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u27	Thank you, mag. Capuder. I would like to invite Mr Stanislav Brenčič, representative of the Slovenian People's Party, to the central speaker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u28	Thank you very much. Our Group of Members will support, as in the rules and regulations, the proposal for a decision submitted by the parent working body to the plenary and thus give its consent to the Regulation. However, I would just like to say that the mission of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian and Charity Organisations for All Disability Care is very important and a good solution for the system of this disability. Without such an approach, practically our people with disabilities and this area could not even be properly organised as it is, nor could it be quite a successful interlocutor to the state authorities. This is why I would like to say that we are receiving a call this time, this time the National Assembly and this time the government have relatively good up to date from the last mandate, both on the issue of the legal regulation of this area and on the accession to the individual evaluation of this area as a whole. The only thing we have left is to continue what we have left, and to arrange for all the acts of the Foundation to end this eternal torture within the disability system, which is established and which is why there has also been a relatively genuine debate on the Committee and also in the case of the courts here and the debates of Members. Once again, we have not received a bad deal from this area as a national assembly and not as a government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u29	Thank you very much, Mr. Brenčich. I call on the representative of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mrs Alenko Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u30	Honourable Presidents, representatives of the Government and Foundation, colleagues and colleagues. The amendments and additions to the rules on the criteria and conditions for the use of the funds of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations bring about a change in the distribution of financial resources to the benefit of humanitarian organisations and a more comprehensive and detailed control over the use of allocated funds. On the basis of the recommendations of the Court of Auditors, the proposed amendments were proposed by the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations. Amendments and additions bring about a change in the divisional relationship in favour of humanitarian organisations. So far, as we know, 75% of the funds for disability organisations and 25 for humanitarian organisations have been allocated. In view of the increase in the number of humanitarian organisations, the ratio is increasing in favour of humanitarian organisations, which will thus benefit up to 35% of the funds and disability to 65%. The amount of funding for humanitarian organisations shall then be allocated to general charities, chronic patients organisations and self-help organisations in a relationship determined by the Council each year on a proposal from the Commission for the evaluation and preparation of proposals for the allocation of funds. The new regime will also amend the beneficiaries of FIHO funding in view of the amended legislation that deals separately with humanitarian and disability organisations, since each category is dealt with in a specific law, i.e. separately in the Law on Disability Organisations and the Law on Humanitarian Organisations. The new regime brings the revised criteria for the allocation of funds and provides for priority in selecting the financing of activities. It also details the purposeful use of appropriations, which is particularly important, as well as sanctions for the purposeless use of funds. Organisations must provide a view of the documentation, provide the necessary information and clarifications. If the organisation does not allow control, it shall check the documentation, and the payment of the appropriations for the current year shall be suspended. In the event that the appropriations are used for another purpose as approved, the Council’s prior consent is necessary. As already mentioned today, it is essential that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia prepare and submit to the National Assembly as soon as possible for the consideration and adoption of a proposal for amendments and for the completion of the law on the property transformation of Loteria Slovenije, which was also the decision of the home committee. Today's adoption of amendments and additions that are necessary and in line with the above-mentioned recommendations of the Court of Auditors, the issue of financing of disability and humanitarian organisations as a whole, or at least imperfectly, is unlikely to be addressed and will be discussed in the future. A comprehensive approach will be needed to address this sensitive issue, as the number of societies is increasing, new programmes are emerging, and changes and additions to the Regulation are still a condition for changes in the allocation of funds. Time will, of course, show whether the solutions were appropriate and definitive, or whether they will need to be complemented. The Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group supports the amendment of the Rules of Procedure and the conditions for the use of funds from the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u31	Thank you so much for your attitude. I invite the representative of the Liberal Democracy Club, Ljuba Germić, to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u32	Thank you very much. The content of the proposed amendments and additions, criteria and conditions for the use of funds from the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations is closely linked to the changes and additions to the Foundation's rules, as has been said many times today, and are due to the laws adopted in the field of disability and humanitarian organisations and to the requirements of the Court of Auditors. Thus, on the basis of the requirements of the Court of Auditors, the changes relate to the proposed new criteria of the Foundation for the evaluation of programmes and the allocation of funds from the Foundation for the identification of programmes and costs burdening social programmes. There are further changes in the area of control where the proposal to amend the organisation owes the Foundation in the exercise of control to provide an overview of the entire programme implementation and use documentation. Amendments shall lay down procedures for the allocation of additional funds and shall ensure greater transparency of decisions in terms of the purposeful use of the funds allocated by the Foundation of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations. Of course, when introducing amendments to the rules on the criteria and conditions for the use of funds, we are faced with an original problem which should address the issues of procedures for changing membership in the Foundation's bodies and which would ensure the implementation of the principle of non-compatibilities of functions. These issues can only be resolved by amending the Law on Property Conversion of Lottery Slovenia and, consequently, by establishing a Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations. One of the important amendments and additions to the rules on criteria is defined in Article 1 of the amendments and in additions which re-establish the relationship between the share of funds allocated to disabled and humanitarian organisations. Although the decision has been taken by consensus in the Foundation's world, in our view, a strong border could be hampered by flexible and necessary decisions in the light of current events. At the parliamentary club, we will make the proposed amendments, although we believe they are improving the situation, but they are still insufficient, we have supported them, but at the same time, as we have already explained in the previous paragraph, we also supported the Committee's additional decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u33	Thank you for presenting the position of the House of Liberal Democracy. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members. There are two Members on my list of applications, and I invite Mrs Cveto Zalokar Orazem, who is not, also the second Member, to give up. I'm asking the proposer of matter if he still wants to speak? Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u34	Honourable Presidents, honourable Members, dear Members. Allow me to thank you, on behalf of the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations, for your willingness to support the proposed amendments to the rules and regulations of our Foundation. It was clear from your discussion that you were assessing that the Foundation had done important work in the past despite some of the shortcomings you were talking about. With those we meet in our foundation, they are a very sensitive group, and this has also been found today, so of course we have always tried to be as unfair as possible to individual organisations that have run for funds, even when they have been changed. Believe that any changes that we make in the future or that will be proposed by amending the law will not always be possible to satisfy everyone in their demands; there will always be organisations that will not be satisfied. We accounted for a billion and a half claims this year, more than funds were available. However, it can happen under the European Directive - let us hope not - that certain changes will take place in the field of amendments to the Slovenian Lottery, where foreigners will also be able to perform in this field. Let's hope not. In the event that this occurs, of course, the resources will be significantly lower in terms of the concession fee and the work of the Foundation will be increasingly difficult. The number of organisations is increasing from year to year through the law on humanitarian organisations. In short, when the Ministry and later when you get a proposal for any changes to the Law on the Lottery of Slovenia and later the decree - let us patiently and responsibly try to address this subject because it is a matter of extremely sensitive groups. The work is not easy and believe that the criticisms that have been today or I would say I take them more as recommendations and comments and the proposal, as first, are not simple and there are no things so simple sometimes even before the decision to take them as it is in the foundation's world. Once again, thank you for your willingness to continue to work with this, as you said. We want, of course, good cooperation in the preparation of amendments to this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u35	Thank you, Mr. Kuchar, for further clarifications. Since the time of 55 minutes for discussion was foreseen under point 8 we spent 31, I ask Members and Members if there is any other desire, a desire for a debate. Given that I do not see any interest, I am also concluding the debate. On the proposal for a decision on the agreement to amend and supplement the rules on the criteria and conditions for the use of the funds of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia, we will decide today in the framework of the vote at 11.45 a.m. Thanks for once.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u36	Colleagues, please, colleagues, if you'll take your space. Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down and take your seats. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Comrade Paul Rupar, would you please sit down and allow the National Assembly to resume its work normally? Thank you. I continue with the end of the 7th item of the agenda - dealing with changes and supplementing the rules of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia agrees to amend and supplement the rules of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia of 18.5.2004 and 8.7.2004 as set out in the comprehensive text of 15.7.2004. Anybody want to explain their voice? I don't see any interest, so we're going to go to the vote. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present. 69 Members voted against none. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[Against no one.]] I note that the proposed decision was adopted by the National Assembly. We continue with the end of the 8th item of the agenda - the consideration of amendments and the completion of the rules on the criteria and conditions for the use of the funds of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia agrees to amend and supplement the rules on the criteria and conditions for the use of the funds of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia of 18.5.2004 and 8.7.2004 as set out in the comprehensive text of 15.7.2004. Anybody want to explain their voice? No, no, no. Then we'll go to the vote. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present and 73 Members voted against. [[The vote was 73.]] [[None.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. This concludes this agenda item. We are moving on to a follow-up to item 2 of the agenda - the third is to consider a proposal for a law amending the law on the prohibition of production and transport of asbestos products and on the provision of funds for the restructuring of asbestos production in an inviolable manner. Yesterday the National Assembly, which is 25.1., carried out a second draft law. As amendments have not been tabled in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, we are moving on to a decision on the law. On the basis of Article 140, paragraph 5, I am informing you that I am a law enforcement officer and have not been warned by the Government that the law would not be inconsistent. Anybody want to explain their voice? Mr. Bevk. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u37	On behalf of the Group of Members. Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A well-respected choir. The Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will support the amendment of the asbestos law that we have tabled in the parliamentary procedure with colleague Bredo Pecan. I would like to point out that the basic law of 1996 was also the result of the parliamentary initiative. Since the validity of the laws expired in 2004, my colleague and I summarized the law that was tabled by the four members of the previous government coalition with the first-signed Member Ivan Bozic in November 2003. The former government, as well as the current one, objected to the law extending its validity until 2008 and to the realization of it. However, the previous government has appointed a special inter-resort working group, which in June 2004 prepared guidelines and baselines for the drafting of a new law that will fully address asbestos issues in Slovenia. In its opinion, this starting point was also fully summed up by the current government and promised to prepare a new law by the second quarter of 2005 at the latest. We reached a minimum compromise on the Committee on the Economy in the second reading and extended the law until the end of this year. The marriage gap was over. The extension of the law will further allow for the acquisition of the insurance period and the payment of settlement or compensation to asbestos patients, for which funds amounting to 692 million tolls in the 2005 account are already reserved. However, the Government and the National Assembly will take sufficient time to prepare and adopt a comprehensive marriage on asbestos issues. However, the government must not delay the drafting of this law. Asbestos was exposed to about 23,000 workers. Due to the very long latent period until the outbreak of one of the asbestos diseases, experts predict that the peak of disease in Slovenia will be expected around 2025. In addition, the harmful effects of asbestos have also been exposed to populations in threatened areas, and health and social security for this group will also need to be further defined, allowing for the first amendment to the 1998 law. The Group of Ambassadors of the United List of Social Democrats will therefore support the third amendment of the asbestos law. We will also support, with well-prepared solutions, of course, a new government proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u38	Thank you. I invite Mr Bojan Rugl to speak, to explain his voice. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u39	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! I myself will support this proposal to extend the law for two reasons. For the first time, we will provide funds primarily to those asbestos patients, whose confession I have also read, and for the second time we will give the government the opportunity to draw up a truly good new law, which should also include the elimination of these asbestos products, which are now in use, such as roofs in schools, in kindergartens where our children and, for example, many others still use asbestos pipes, which we do not know how they can be harmful in the long term. I would therefore like to take this opportunity and appeal to all together to somehow provide these funds for the replacement of these products in this new law.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u40	Thank you. In accordance with the agreement of the College, I am also obliged to ask for a second time who wishes to report the reasons for the vote. In view of the fact that I see only two hands, colleague Sok and colleague Petko, they are the only ones who have the right to explain their vote. Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u41	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Fellow Members and Members! I would like to explain the position of the New Slovenia Group, if we also said it here yesterday in the National Assembly, especially for the reason that we discussed yesterday's politically extremely important law on the Roma community. RTV Slovenia reports on the views of all parliamentary groups, some even twice, while the views of Nova Slovenije as the only parliamentary party could not be detected in all television reports. This, of course, is not our assessment of coincidence, but rather the rule of exception. This happened to us even when we were three, four years in opposition. Well, we're going to support this law, even though we don't need it as such. Indeed, funding for 2005 is already provided in the budget, mainly for social personnel problems and for compensation for occupational disease related to asbestos. In this national assembly, we often conclude a discussion with some conclusion that the government should prepare a comprehensive solution, I do not know, for all those who have ever come into contact with asbestos. We fear that this will not be possible because of the limited possibility, but it will be necessary to take care of those who have come directly into contact with this tool with asbestos. If the government has additional financial options, first of all it is necessary to take care of them, someone has already told me about replacing asbestos water pipes. There are still many of these pipes in Slovenia. Although we do not have any information on how these asbestos tubes affect or how asbestos fibers are released into the water, and if they are released into drinking water at all, when there is damage to these earth pipes, asbestos is definitely found in drinking water. The cost of replacing this would be, if calculated, likely to go into extremely high dizzying numbers and the question is whether this country will be able to manage enough resources in a short time to enable and improve this. We will certainly advocate that the law will continue to help those who have suffered direct damage in the production of asbestos. We will support this law, which is today in the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u42	Thank you, Comrade Sok. The final explanation for this vote is Mr Miro Petek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u43	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I will vote in favour of the proposal for a law amending the asbestos law. I support this marriage because it's all just a little satisfaction for all that they are and what these people are going to lose. I would like to draw attention to another, a rather similar case, in my opinion, which is not so common in the public eye, perhaps because it is not such a number, and some estimates suggest that it could be compared to asbestos. More than a decade ago, lead and zinc still owned by this country in the cave of the merciless mine, and the Republic of Slovenia devoted considerable funds to closure, revealed the enormous presence of radon and its short-lived descendants. It is said that the presence of this radioactive gas was discovered decades ago, but at the time, the management of the Mezica mine covered the matter. Radiation of radon was far above the permitted limits, at a corner of 300 the buttons were given several times higher doses than, for example, in the uranium mine Žirovski vrh. At that time, the health inspectorate issued a mine inspection decision, and for some, they adopted restrictions on the labour area of chemical and physical genotoxics, for some there was a ban on work, and some had to circulate. Doctors have identified chromosomal aderations such as had not yet been known in the Slovenian space. At the time, there were only 150 more knapsacks, and in the most beautiful years, there were up to 1,000 knapsacks employed in the mines. The voice of the clicks was not heard at the time. The case swept under the carpet and, of course, the buttons received no compensation or additional health care. The country, as the owner of the lead and zinc mine, has owed for several years more than 130 million tolars due to less paid personal income. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u44	Thank you, too, for this explanation of voice. When we're exhausted, we're going to the vote. Procedurally, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u45	In accordance with Rule 72 of the Rules of Procedure, I request the right to an explanation of vote, because I believe that neither the President nor the leadership of the National Assembly has the right to amend the Rules of Procedure without changing it to the National Assembly, to vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u46	I'm not going to follow your procedural proposal. I can tell you that on 17.1.2005, the leadership of the National Assembly was united around the leadership. For the first time and for the last time, I've asked you to explain my voice twice. In the first two Members and in the second two Members have applied. I advise you to contact the Rules of Procedure Commission with your proposal or procedural proposal. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. I'm calling off the vote. Mr. Squeakle, procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u47	Mr. Chairman! With all due respect to the leadership arrangements of the National Assembly. These cases are not defined business. The leadership of the National Assembly in closed, secret meetings, at which the LDS Club did not wish to participate, since it was not possible to participate in such matters, laid down amendments to the Rules of Procedure. I think it has been repeatedly said that Members and Members have the right to explain their vote [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u48	Mr. Squeakle, I'm sorry to interrupt. This is not a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u49	Look, I'm just warning you. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u50	The answer is the same as the answer to a colleague who asked the same question earlier. I won't change my mind. At this point, we will proceed to the vote. And I'm asking you to sit down and vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u51	Mr President, this is fine, but I propose that the Rules of Procedure Commission decide first, and then the President should do business differently than the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u52	I have taken note of your complaint, and now we are moving on to the vote. We're voting. 76 Members and Members are present. 76 Members and Members voted in favour, no one voted against. [[The vote was 76.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to nine. On the day-to-day basis, this is on the defence of the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Compulsory Insurance in Transport following the urgent procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the National Assembly. Given the fact that the candidates, the governments, are not, I can't give them my word either. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. [[...]] Secondly, I would ask the government representatives to take their place at the beginning of the discussion of the point. I ask the representatives of the government whether they want the introductory word.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u53	Dear Vice President! I apologize for this half-minute delay, and I accept your warning, so in the future, count on us to be in the hall in time. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! You have before you a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Compulsory Insurance in Transport, prepared and submitted by the Ministry of Finance for consideration by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia after being coordinated with the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Government for Law, the Insurance Supervisory Agency and the Slovenian Insurance Association. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted the draft law on 6 January 2005 and forwarded it to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia by rapid procedure. The urgency procedure requires the content of the law, which means definitive compliance with another Directive on Automotive Insurance. Prior to the consideration of the draft law on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, coordination was also carried out with the legislative and legal services of the National Assembly, resulting in two proposed amendments to the Committee, which the Government also agrees with. The bill provides for two solutions. First of all, the increase in the minimum insurance sums for personal and property damage arising from the insurance of car liability, so that they comply with the requirements laid down in the second Directive. The minimum insurance sums, which represent the minimum guaranteed to the injured person and the insurance limit of the insurance undertaking, were last raised by the previous amendment of the law in 2002. Due to the change in the ratio between the tolar and the euro, the amount set out in the Directive was no longer followed and, on the other hand, it was not possible to increase them by the regulation of the Ministry of Finance, as a 10% change in the ratio of tolar to euro has not yet been achieved, as foreseen by the 2002 law. The proposal for a law may increase the minimum insurance sums while at the same time setting out how the current changes are made, so that these sums are consistent at any time with those required by the Directive. In the course of the preparation of the bill on the question of the impact of increased minimum amounts on premiums, the Ministry of Finance explained in consultation with the Slovenian Insurance Association that insurance companies do not plan to increase premiums at the moment due to the increase in insurance sums. However, the second amendment introduced by the law is the identification of bodies that exercise control over individual provisions of the law and decide as criminal authorities on offences for violations of this law. This fulfils the condition laid down in the Act on Offences, which requires the clear determination of the criminal authorities. Respectful, the essential reason for the adoption of legislation is to comply with the directives of the European Union, so please support the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u54	I thank the representative of the government, Mr Špiletic, for his introductory presentation. The draft law, however, treated the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force in the national assembly procedure. I ask the chairman of the Committee, Bojan Starman, to present the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u55	Respectable. Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. At its 5th meeting, on 19.1.2005, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on compulsory security in transport submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the national assembly for consideration and reception by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, proposing that the law submitted be considered and adopted following an urgent procedure. On 14.1.2005, the College of the President of the National Assembly decided that the draft law should be dealt with on an urgent basis. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service, which examined the law submitted in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system, as well as technical legislation, and commented on the provisions of Articles 1, 2, 3 and 4 of the Act. When adopting its amendments listed below, the Committee took part in taking into account the comments of the legislative and legal service on Articles 2 and 4. Representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Legal and Legislative Service attended the meetings of the Committee. In the introduction to the article, the representative of the Government drew attention to the essential solutions to the draft law, stressing the necessity of its adoption in order to align the minimum insurance sums with the requirements of Directive 84/5 of the European Community. In preparing the proposal, the Ministry also worked with insurance companies, as mentioned earlier, who gave a written opinion not to increase the insurance premium. Then there was a long debate. The substance and content of the debate was: for the first time, whether it is necessary to comply with the Directive of the European Union and to adapt our law to minimum insurance sums. I must say that it has been said that this law should be harmonised by May of last year, that we received a comment or a warning from the European Union last autumn, so we consider that there has been a debate and the opinion of some discussers was that it might not be necessary to coordinate and that we are in breach of or not following the directives of the European Union because it would be aware of when the minimum insurance sums change. I must point out that practically in European legislation and also in our legislation they use minimum insurance sums, which are practically maximum insurance sums and who would be aware of these matters. However, for the time being, this could also lead to an increase in insurance premiums, which could in some way lead to an increase in inflation and a failure to meet the convergence criteria for entry into the EU for this reason. We have assessed and finally voted on both amendments, as well as amendments to the law proposed for further consideration and adoption by the National Assembly, that there is still a probable and potential harm to not enacting this law or amendment, to comply with the European Directive more than would have been the consequences of inflation. In particular, because insurance companies claimed that this would not result in an increase in insurance premiums. Thus, we have adopted amendments and amendments to all articles of the law and are proposing them to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u56	Thank you for the report. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The first presentation will be given by the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Mr. Joseph Bajc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u57	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear government representatives, colleagues and colleagues. By adopting amendments and supplementing the Compulsory Traffic Insurance Act, we ensure that the minimum insurance sums for personal and property damage resulting from the insurance of car liability will be fixed; we will determine how to monitor the minimum insured sums for the insurance of car liability due to changes in the tolar-to-euro ratio and identify the entities which have control over the implementation of individual decisions arising from the Law on Amendments and the Supplements to Compulsory Insurance and will also align our legislation with the provisions of the European Directive, which could otherwise be done earlier or should have done before 1 May 2004. The adoption of the Act will remove another non-harmonised area from the list of non-harmonised areas between Slovenian legislation and European legislation. The question of the appropriateness of the time when the law in question was to be adopted and given its possible effects on inflation in the Slovenian People's Party, we believe that if the consequences arise today or tomorrow. Regardless of the possible consequences, we support the adoption of amendments to the law under consideration, and we expect that the adoption of the law will not result in an automatic increase in compulsory car insurance premiums, which some say would have an impact on inflation and thus on the difficult possibility of introducing the euro since 2007. In view of the assurance of insurance houses that this does not automatically mean, we also consider that this condition is met, so there is no need to raise inflation. Members of the Slovenian People's Party will support the proposed bill amending and supplementing the Act on Compulsory Insurance in Transport, together with the amendments adopted by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u58	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the position of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. Mrs. Barbara Žgeiner Tavsh.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u59	Thank you very much, Chairman. According to the Slovenian National Party's assessment, the law on compulsory transport insurance is inadequate both at the time and in the form in which it is adopted today. It is a law within the framework of hidden laws that does not have direct financial consequences, but only these are indirect. Indeed, the burden will not be borne or borne by the state budget, but by indirect users or beneficiaries of insurance services. The increase in compulsory insurance is, in fact, a logical consequence of the increase in insurance sums and will also have an impact on the rise in inflation. The rise in inflation, of course, prevents efforts to introduce the euro in 2007. On the other hand, in the Slovenian National Party, we express resentment over the behaviour of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or its unacceptable relationship, as the latter did not wish or perhaps did not know how to provide or provide assurances of new burdens for citizens and citizens. A major debate developed at the College of the National Assembly where the Slovenian National Party asked the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or the Secretary-General of the Government to receive a clear answer whether the higher insurance amounts would also constitute an increase in compulsory insurance premiums. On 14 January, the government assured the Slovenian National Party that the law would not result in an increase in car insurance premiums. Five days later, the same government or representatives of the competent ministry, who are with us today, cannot provide this assurance on the home work body. A completely different position was taken again by the government at the next college. We estimate that there is a duality or unacceptable and unacceptable change in the government's decisions from day to day. All of this, however, gives an additional "right" to a national party which has opposed the consideration of the law by means of a reduced or urgent procedure. On behalf of the Slovenian National Party, I stress, in the knowledge of the Government and also of the National Assembly, that laws having financial implications for citizens and citizens cannot or should not be adopted following reduced procedures. As a result, the Slovenian National Party does not intend or support such laws in the future. We won't support the law, as we said.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u60	Thank you for your position. The next presentation shall be followed by the representative of DeSUS. Mr. Willie Rezman, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u61	Thank you very much. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the debate on the transport law has been held at two levels: one level is operational and the other level is a level that we understand as a level of principle. We have both discussed and we both want to express our position within our parliamentary group. For the first time, let me start by saying that we will support this law and have no doubts about it. Secondly, let me say that it is our principled position that we do not accept an offer, that European and other regulations, if only they could, move it away, or disregard what comes from the regulation itself. This does not seem useful to us: neither in this case nor in those who will certainly follow this logic. But there will be no avoiding everything. He repeats too much of what's already been said. Let me mention just a few facts that we have also heard from the government. The fact that this directive has already been in force for about two decades - that is, there is no novelty, is not a matter of being admitted to the door to the nose; that one of the deadlines of May 1st of the previous year has been warned in the past year, and that, in fact, all that we are talking about is already incriminating and therefore is not a matter of any particular importance. Those who would like to press charges would be able to do so on the basis of a directive. There is no reason, however, for what is right and what people are not aware of to hide from them. That we are not harmonised, therefore it is clear, that the proposaler said, he said the reasons, that he also said what he wanted the consequences or which objectives he was following and gave a special justification, which I also think was not the most fortunate and that it could have been otherwise written and that, perhaps by this record, he did not, for the budget or for any other consequences, in fact, aroused the need for a nobleman. The Government or the proposer has also pointed us to some possible consequences that would have occurred if we did not support this bill. It is certainly true that an excessive deviation from what we must follow is not permissible. It is also certain that some of the consequences may also be negative if we do not accept them, and this was stressed by those who later warned in the debate on the Committee on Finance that we should take advantage of the possibility of delaying or withdrawing this time pressure. Thus, they have already talked about the possibility that EU action can also be expected to be expected not only as a reminder, but rather as a sanctioned measure. We are obliged to implement the directives and it has been warned that the Commission is likely to launch such a procedure against us if we do not follow it. While government assurances were that there were no budgetary implications and that there were no consequences for anyone else, which is in itself somewhat illogical, because if there were no consequences or changes to be expected, no proposals would be proposed. Then we would keep the situation the way it is, so our warning goes in this direction, that it is likely that it is good for them to work hard in future forewords and to indicate these potential consequences, which are not such as to be explicitly listed, even if they are good. You don't always have to list the negative consequences. And this marriage may have some good consequences for the insurance company, at least that's how it is to understand it. The thoughts that were also expressed on the committee went in terms of, and I participated in, and was in doubt whether the premiums would actually rise or not, or whether it provided the Slovenian insurance association properly or not - and we have not seen it at all, until today I have not been able to obtain it. But at the very least, we would like to say that we do not support those appeals, those invitations that invite us to postpone the decisions that invite us to actually be allowed to complain that they are asking us to even find allies in Europe, so that we will act and not adopt the regulation that our EU is making for us.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u62	Thank you very much. The next position comes from the members of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, Mr Bojan Starman.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u63	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Members from the Slovenian Democratic Party will support the proposed amendments and complementary amendments and amendments to the articles of the law. In order not to repeat myself, I think that if we have entered the European Union, we have adopted a European right order, and we have to stick to it, and we have decided in our party that we will positively vote that the potential damage to non-compliance and non-compliance with European legislation and directives is greater than if the risk of an eventual increase in insurance premiums can occur. They have ensured that they will not, we have already heard that, in some way under these directives, these bonuses are already offensive, so I would not repeat this, I fully agree with my predecessor, and once again I stress that our party Members will support these changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u64	Thank you for your position. Following is the position of the Member's Club of Liberal Democracy. Dr. Laharnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u65	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear Members. In the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia of course we will not support the amendment of the legislation on compulsory insurance in transport. Again, we are faced with the fact that this new government has brought into the National Assembly a law that has been tabled by the emergency procedure. And how did she base that? This was justified by the fact that some comments were coming from Brussels. Of course, the rules of procedure do not suffice. Again, we face the fact that they said: there are no financial consequences. Those who have carefully read this law quickly notice that, of course, insurance sums rise from 450,000 euros to 500,000 euros, from 110 million to 122 million dollars. And whoever knows little of the logic of actuarial activity knows that if insurance sums are raised on one side, there will be increases in mandatory insurance premiums in transport as soon as possible. And this government says that there are no financial implications, neither for the budget nor for public institutions - what is not necessary after the new protection since we have a new government - not for taxpayers, for citizens who do not need to protect cars after all. In short, this argument of "no financial consequences" is problematic. Another interesting thing is that this new government has publicly said that one of the key projects of this government is the introduction of the euro that we are planning to introduce by 2007. If there is - and we believe - an increase in mandatory insurance premiums in transport will, of course, have an impact on inflation. Neither did the government justify nor tried to calculate what this potential impact would be. And a pebble on a pebble is, of course, being exposed to these effects and jeopardising one of the key priorities of Slovenia - the introduction of the euro. I think that's extremely problematic. Of course, the claim itself, what the Secretary of State said here today, is that we have some assurance that insurance companies are not planning to raise premiums - he said right now. What's going on right now? Today, tomorrow, in a month or two? In a month or two, these premiums will, of course, be raised, which will reasonably be explained by the fact that actuarial calculation shows that if insurance sums rise, of course premiums must also be increased. Therefore, our point is that it is right that we always pour pure wine. That if there are any financial consequences, then it is right for the government to make this clear. That if there is a reason for the urgent procedure, the government should make a certain amendment to the law by emergency procedure, not on average! If any comments come from Brussels. It is clear, of course, that Slovenia must also implement this directive in its legal order. He certainly doesn't think that these rights are automatically vindictive. Only then is this maximum or minimum insurance sum, when we change it in the Slovenian legal order, is this also incriminating. Of course, there is an alternative to introducing these changes in 2007, when Slovenia is no longer in the European exchange rate system, when we all hope to introduce the euro and the potential increase in these mandatory transport insurances will be significantly less attractive to inflation. As I said, in the parliamentary club, the Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, of course, we cannot support these changes. I repeat, we don't think there was any reason for the emergency procedure. We think there will be financial consequences. We believe that such "on Horuk" laws introduced, the amendments to the laws of the National Assembly threaten the key priority of Slovenia, the introduction of the euro. And we believe, not least, that there will be consequences that will be known in the pockets of taxpayers. We will therefore, of course, oppose this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u66	Thank you, Dr. Lakhovnik. I call on the representative of the United List of Social Democrats, Mr Ferri Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u67	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished secretary of state with co-workers! Members and Members of the United Nations will also not support the proposal for a law. Not because we would oppose coordination with directives when it is necessary and when it is necessary, but because we would not like to see the government, in particular, of the payment of insurance premiums or insurers and also of Members and Members of Parliament "driving through water". This is mainly the question of the impact of the adoption of this law on raising premiums and indirectly on the impact on inflation. And let me be as specific as possible in the argument of this position. First time. The proposer, the government, in the introduction to point 6 states that the bill has no other consequences, that there are no budgetary implications, that is clear, but that there are no other consequences. There is no provision for this either in the text of the law or in the amendments adopted or in the responses given to the parent body and even in today's introduction of the answer to this question. Secondly, in its opinion on Article 3, which was not taken into account in the preparation and adoption of amendments setting out new, twenty percent and more of the higher insurance sums, the legislature pointed out the need for a more accurate presentation of the insurance sums and their impact on the level of insurance premiums or the consequences of the adoption of the law. We have not received a convincing response to these warnings until today. Third time. On a number of questions, we have not received a Member at the Committee's meeting, as already mentioned, the Committee on Finance, regarding the possible impact on the rise in insurance premiums. Fourth time. While the government estimates that the adopted law will not result in an increase in insurance premiums, it refers to the written assurance of the Slovenian Insurance Association, which, after finding at the meeting - and as is known - does not have a legal obligation to later act as insurers. Government assurance seems naive or misleading. In fact, when he says, I quote, "it will do everything within its remit and it will act in the direction of preserving the current amounts of insurance premiums." Not only is it loose and unconvincing, but it is actually misleading, because insurance companies form insurance premiums on their own. Since it is not only possible, but very likely that the adoption of the law will have an impact on the increase in insurance premiums, which would also affect the growth of inflation, the proposal of the law, especially after the emergency procedure, we cannot support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u68	Thank you, Mr. Horvath. We are ahead of the last presentation of the views of the groups of Members. I invite the representative of New Slovenia, Mr Martin Mikolić, to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u69	Honourable Vice-President, Government representatives, colleagues and colleagues. The Nova Slovenija Group will support the Government's proposal, amendments and additions to the Act on Compulsory Insurance in Transport relating to the minimum insurance sums to be paid by the insurance company to the taxpayers for the compulsory insurance of car liability for personal and property damage. These figures were harmonised in 2002 with the relevant European guidelines. With our entry into the EU, we have committed ourselves to comply with and respect for the directives imposed on us by European legislation, namely, in a specific case to harmonise the tariff-to-euro ratio in relation to the directives of the European Community, which are referred to in Article 1 of the amendments and additions. On 15 January 2002, the exchange rate for the euro was 221.9 and on 15 January this year was 239.8 - so the nominal value increased by 8%. The proposed solution to the law increases the minimum insurance sums for personal and property damage on the basis of car liability. It also provides for a way of amending the minimum insurance sums of motor liability insurance due to changes in the tolar-to-euro ratio and lays down entities which have control over the implementation of the individual provisions of mandatory traffic insurance. In the Nova Slovenija Group, we believe that the proposal of some opposition parties to the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy to extend these changes to 2006 and 2007 until Slovenia's entry into the European Monetary Union or at the time of taking the euro, because the non-acceptance of the new nominal insurance sums could certainly have some negative consequences for the country, which is unacceptable. It is very problematic, given that we have received a reminder from the EU, because we have not already done the right coordination with its EU membership, to develop a theory on the actual necessity of adopting the proposed law, in the sense that we present the matter properly to European technologists, as it has been said, and to point out the priority of our country in taking over the euro, of course, in the hope that the EU will decide on this issue only when Slovenia has already entered the European Monetary Union or when it takes over the euro and the inflation criteria are no longer problematic. Or the reference to some of the new EU members doing the same. Most certainly, in the New Slovenia Group, as before, we will be critical in the adoption of laws that may add to the burden of taxpayers or citizens and citizens. In a specific case, the Slovenian Insurance Association provided a written assurance that the insurance company will not increase the premiums, and we hope it will also hold. In the preparation of the legislative proposal, the Ministry also cooperated with insurance companies and, in particular, with a view to providing the Slovenian Insurance Association, the government estimates that there will be no increase in insurance premiums due to the adoption of the law. However, it is certainly very important that what was also said by the representative of the government on the committee is that even if we do not reconcile the relationship between the tolar and the euro, the injured person is entitled to the sum according to the directive and, of course, if he is aware of the legislation, he can also recover the court. In order to comply with European legislation, the New Slovenia Group will, of course, support the government proposal with both amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u70	Thank you for presenting the position of the New Slovenia Group. This concludes with the presentation of the views of the parliamentary groups, so we are moving on to a second reading of the bill. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to table amendments in the third reading, so we are moving on to a decision on the law. In doing so, I inform you that the legislature or the government has not informed me that the law would be inconsistent. Someone wants to explain their voice. Shall I first ask the views of the parliamentary groups? On behalf of the delegation? To present my position, I invite my colleague Barovic on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u71	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues! That is all I would like to stress once again, as we have pointed out, what colleague Barbara Žgajner Tavš stressed. Let us take into account the principle that no law that has financial implications for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia is adopted anymore and that we will not adopt them in a swift manner. Please consider this. Once again, on behalf of the Group of Members, this is why the Slovenian National Party Group will oppose.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u72	Thank you. My colleague Pavlich on behalf of Liberal Democracy.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u73	On behalf of the Liberal Democracy, I'd like a mag. I'd do it individually if I could, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u74	Here you go, Comrade Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u75	Thank you very much. On behalf of the LDS Club, of course, we will say that we will oppose this law. There's been quite a few observations already said. In the debate, we expected government representatives to come forward, explain the reasons, but we did not hear. It is simply necessary to tell Slovenian citizens and citizens that, on average, the mandatory premium will increase from 57,000 to 62,000 to 62,000 tolars and that within two years when this does not need to be increased, it will go from the pockets of Slovenian citizens and citizens of 12 billion tolars in the pockets of insurance companies. This is a fifth of the tax reliefs that we have adopted with great anguish with amendments to the Income Law. We therefore, of course, believe that there are many reasons to oppose this law. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia deceives the National Assembly when it says there are no consequences. Twice this deception has been carried out, we have not heard any objection today. At the same time, of course, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is also deceiving you Members and Members of the ruling coalition because it says that there will be irreparable consequences for Slovenia. There are no irreparable consequences. Only the Secretary of State must go to Brussels and speak there in a so-called criminal procedure because it is necessary to argue that the euro is the most important thing for Slovenia. And when we take over the euro, of course, the unit of value in Slovenia will become the euro and then it will mean that the insurance sums are not set in tolars, but are set in euros. Only three countries are fully in line with this Directive. The Ministry of Finance explained yesterday that they had not even checked what the other nine countries were doing, which became members on 1 May 2004. That is why, of course, I say that the government is deceiving Members and Members of the ruling coalition because it tells you that there are no consequences. But, ladies and gentlemen, each of the citizens and citizens, a million and fifty thousand vehicles we have in Slovenia, will suffer a few consequences within a few weeks because insurance companies will simply do so. In Slovenia there is no limit on premiums, actuarial calculations are valid in Slovenia and insurance companies will simply do so. This could also have been read in the newspaper. Mr Kaluza said, "Yes, we may not do this exactly, but that's certainly not the only reason we're going to increase the premiums." Therefore, I propose that we reject the law to send representatives of the Ministry to Brussels to talk at the round table, but not to come to this round room and demand, following an urgent procedure, the adoption of a law that has no irreparable consequences if it is not adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u76	Thank you for giving an explanation to the Group's vote. I now ask which of the Members and Members of Parliament is applying for explanations of vote. Please raise your hand so I can write it all down. Please raise your hands again. Can I have a second, please? Mr. Scholch, please, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u77	Mr Vice-President and also Mr President of the National Assembly, sitting here on behalf of which you are carrying out a procedure that does not have a basis in law. Please, if you cancel this gathering of applications for explanations of vote, because there is no basis for this in our Rules of Procedure. It seems to me that even to explain a voice, a person sometimes decides when he listens to explanations they don't have, I'll say the appropriate elements for someone to make a decision about or against. This, I will say, narrowing down the right of Members to say their views on signing up at the beginning, but priori can mean that if you insist on doing so, only that I will talk a large number of people, that every time everyone raises their hands and they will show that your agreement is absurd. If you don't cancel this, I'm going to ask all my colleagues to raise their hands and then make any decisions about or against the next moment. I just want to say that you don't need to do what you don't have a basis for in the rules of procedure, not in any legislation, but in some agreements that cannot go beyond democratically adopted rules. We didn't adopt these rules here, so you can't enforce them on us.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u78	Mr. Scholch, thank you for your thought. I have told you what practice it will be or what practice it will be to explain the views or voices of the Members. As long as this remains a unified position, as a result of the agreement, I will also implement it as President. We continue to explain the votes. According to the list, Mr Pavliha is the first to be reported.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u79	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I will vote against the amendments myself for a number of professional reasons. First, I rely on my experience as a good ten-year worker in the Sava reinsurance company, a member of the administration, a director of the nuclear pool, and secondly as a professor of insurance law. I can tell you that it is perfectly clear to every trainee and every student that if we so dramatically increase the insurance amount that such an increase must necessarily affect a significantly higher insurance premium. The insurance premium, because it is compulsory insurance, also affects inflation. If I can warn you that we have about 30 compulsory insurance types in Slovenia, this means that these 30 insurance types will affect prices and, of course, you know that they can only distance us from the euro. I will therefore vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u80	Thank you. Mr Battelli's next.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u81	Thank you very much. You know, the simplest thing to say is that this hairdressing continues, one such mixing of consciousness and also misleading in essence. We are simply not members of the European Union yet, nor of course of the monetary union. This is a fact that should be clearly told to people. We cannot pretend to be Europeans as long as we have the personal incomes that are, for each category, a quarter of the income in classical democracies or the countries of the European Union that have accepted us into their association. Let's be aware of that.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u82	Thank you. Next on the list is Comrade Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u83	Thank you for your word. I will support this proposal from the government, i.e. I have a number of reasons, several reasons. The first is because I do not agree with certain positions that if we accept this, then insurance companies will necessarily have to increase premiums, the emphasis is on morals. I'm also not sure that insurance companies have to cash these billions, because if that were true, then I have to ask myself how many frauds have been, if this is a fraud, which we are now listening to. How many seductions has it had to be so far that insurance company Triglav can increase its value by 250 million euros in two and a half years. How many seductions have we had so far? If it's so small a billion against this Triglav thing, then it's such a small deceiving that it's almost not worth mentioning. That is why I will support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u84	Thank you. We continue with the explanations of vote. Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u85	Thank you. I'll back it up myself. Tuesday we will adopt a European Constitution, which will, of course, more than ever, oblige us to respect the European directives. In this explanation, I certainly believe the current government, rather than the former government, which is almost entirely now sitting in opposition to this national council. If I understand correctly, it's something you should have done by May last year, and you didn't do it. So now that we have received the first warning from the EU, in the next round we will certainly get the punishment, and perhaps some who, just as the opposition, have to oppose it already after this function, would actually want to see it. At this point, we have a written statement from insurance companies saying that the premiums will not increase. We believe that, and we will see whether it is true or not. However, the explanation also says that these lowest premiums are already unwarranted. Even if we do not increase these insurance sums, these cases are incriminating, and even now our courts are beating with a large number of judicial backlogs. Perhaps you are also concerned about showing up in addition to all these unfinished trials another thousand or thousands of new ones. I propose that we support this and remove these unnecessary procedures that you probably want to see as the opposition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u86	Thank you, Comrade Sok. A colleague of Saiovic signed up for the explanation of the vote. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u87	Thank you very much. One of the most common sights in this round hall in the past time was that in Slovenia we rush to introduce some superstandards and similar. I think that we are in Europe and that when our citizens also have European salaries, then we will be able to move on with these matters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u88	Thank you. Last on the list is Comrade Rezman, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u89	Some will be pleased in any case. If the bonus doesn't rise, we'll all be happy. Some will also be pleased if the premiums rise because they were not intended, as sincere as they are now being said, but, rather, very wisely, thinly, they are taxing political capital for electoral results. They probably won't care as much at the time as they do now. Because if they did, it would have been done by now. The roots of inflation are not essential only in the future. I think we should look into what has already been done, and nothing begins until the new period of power comes. Of course, what was done before is not simply forgotten, at least for some, not. With regard to the dramatisation that it will now be possible, I do not deny it, even for that speaker, I have said that I think it is possible that such consequences will appear either negative or positive. With regard to these possibilities for inflation to rise and we will not accept the euro, there are still these theoretical possibilities. But I'm sure that not because of what we're talking about today, because of this raise of compulsory insurance sums, but there's probably some other reason. Such an argument that I have heard today is somewhat dramatic in my judgment. Nevertheless, I thank all those who tried to protect me from being overly deceived. I'll vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u90	Thank you for explaining your voice. In accordance with the agreement adopted on 17.1. this year, I shall open another round of explanations of vote. Here you go. I'm asking if you can raise your hands again. Mr. Robb, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u91	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. I think we've opened up some important topics at this point. One of these is the way Slovenia operates within the EU. Countries within the EU always take two interests into account. On the one hand, the EU's interest and, on the other hand, its own interest, the interests of the state, the interests of citizens and citizens. At this point, we are faced with one of such problems, which is typical and common. I firmly believe that when the government decides on what dynamics, at which point it adopts an EU directive, it must also take into account the interests of citizens and citizens. In this case, there is no doubt that the government has not looked at citizens and citizens, but simply wants to take over one of the EU directives as soon as possible. There will be many more of these in the future. And if we are always the first to take over every directive, of course we will ignore the interests of our own citizens and citizens. I'm sure the previous government did the right thing. There was no need to immediately summarize this directive, enforce it and raise compulsory insurance. However, I would like to point out that those who say today that there will be no consequences are also taking responsibility. It is possible that there will be no consequences if the premium is not raised. However, if they will, then those who today accept this arrangement, which is not necessary, which they might later accept, will also assume this responsibility, in particular the Minister of Finance, who advocates such a solution. We have two measures in the financial field that have been adopted so far: the burden of those who are the richest in Slovenia and the additional taxation of Slovenian citizens. Slovenian citizens and citizens will be paid for this solution, which you are proposing today 12 billion. And we'll see very soon if it's [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u92	Mr. Rob, please, if you're finished.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u93	Of course it is. [[...]] That is why, of course, I appeal to you to take into account the interests of your own country, citizens and citizens in this solution and not to support this solution, and I will not support it myself.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u94	Thank you very much. We're moving on. Dr. Lakhovnik is on the list.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Prices are being set free. And in view of the actuarial calculations, we have clearly justified why there is a high likelihood that the premiums for compulsory transport insurance will increase. As insurance sums increase, these premiums must be increased sooner or later. And all we'd expect from this government is to at least draw up scenarios. What is likely to be the increase in compulsory car insurance premiums and the impact of this increase on inflation. Not that he enters the National Assembly, however, he introduces an emergency law because he has heard some comments from Brussels and then says there are no financial consequences. It is obvious that such an approach is unrealistic.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u96	Thank you. Next on the list is a colleague of Squeakle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u97	Of course, I will vote against the law, with an additional argument, because of course we have failed to convince some Members and Members of Parliament to work for the benefit of citizens and citizens. After Monday's meeting, the Secretary-General told me that the Minister of Finance at the government's meeting had been explicitly asked whether the financial implications would be met. The answer was no. That is why she was also indignant about the information that there would be consequences and said that she would inform the Prime Minister of this. We have proposed that the government come alone with additional arguments. Today we have representatives of the Ministry of Finance, and neither has the Minister of Finance estimated that it is necessary to come here. And no reactions. Members and Members, you're pressing the keys, you're being misled! The effects will be negative, so vote against the law. I will, of course, vote against the law because there are too many negative effects and too little willful action by the government, especially in relation to the European Union. We have some 100 officials in this state administration who are capable of talking to the European Union. As far as I was aware, there was no return visit to Brussels at a college that came from Brussels, no interviews which are usually in the so-called criminal procedure. Nothing. There was an emergency in the National Assembly, and it was as if we had a war, as if we had no idea what the situation was, to adopt a change of law. That is why I believe that the law is valid to be rejected and adopted in the coming months following the talks, and above all not before 1 January 2007, if, of course, the intention of the euro government is still to adopt, to return to this law. I will therefore vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u98	Thank you. The next on the list is Mr Školč. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Of course I'll vote against it. I am taking advantage of this minute, and I have come to the floor to demonstrate that it is necessary in this assembly to protect the right of the Member to speak whenever he wants and what he wants. This must be done because the leadership of the National Assembly, on the one hand, is unable to prevent the inclusion on the agenda. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u100	Mr. Skolcz, I'm going to interrupt you right now because you're taking advantage of the meaning of the explanation of voice. The National Assembly will work at its regular pace and in accordance with the agreement we had, so please finish your speech, or I will have to turn off your microphone.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u101	Mr Pece, so far no one has prevented me from explaining my voice with my arguments and I ask that you start counting me from the beginning so that I can tell my reasons why I want to explain my voice, otherwise I will do it another time. You have no right to interfere with this argument, even though you are alone as a Member in a position to talk about everything else, just not what is on the agenda. I have raised my hand to protect my own and the right of other Members to speak in this House.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u102	Thank you. Mr Battelli has entered the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u103	Thank you very much. I was present at that meeting when we agreed on these circles for explanations of voice, etc. However, one thing is clear: it is a kind of half-solution, as huge as it is. Like any other law we have adopted so far in all these years, it also contains its own contradiction. As long as so much money is turned around in this country, then everything can be done that way, but legal certainty is less. However, it is clear that, given what the Rules of Procedure say, it is only an attempt to regulate a particular problem that cannot be absolute. The absolute story is that everyone before the vote, I now apologize to the government, waiting for a decision etc. because these are our internal stories, but whatever, this is one such attempt to discipline a matter, which is perfectly clear that it is in the rules of procedure: everyone, every moment before the vote can explain how he will vote. Therefore, I ask that this explanation, because it is by the rules of procedure, if I am not mistaken, you put to the vote that this is some way of disciplining this story, but it is not possible to interpret it in an absolute sense, meaning that if someone applies for explanations of vote, he should be given this right. Whatever.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u104	Thank you, Mr. Battelli. I will not put your procedural proposal to the vote, we will continue with the practice that has already been adopted, as I have already said, 17.1. Mr Gulič is next on the list. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u105	Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, distinguished president. I will vote against this mainly because the arguments for voting for, very empty, semantically, were so empty that they could be marked in any other way. It's pure accounts and good friends, of course. Apparently, there was a lot of cover-up here that had to be revealed later. Government representatives, of course, did not confirm this, did not deny it. And when I'm under such doubt, I vote against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u106	Thank you. The last on the list is colleague Pavel Rupar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u107	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I'll support the marriage. But all the other words of the Holy Trinity here in the first place are such empty demagogies that I'm terrified. Demagogy in terms of intimidation. It's simple. Tell me if your insurance premium has not been raised in the years of your reign.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u108	Comrade Paul Rupar, I must warn you here, you cannot ask in explanation of the voice because it is not possible to answer that. Please, if you stick to the rules of procedure. Don't argue with others.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u109	Wasn't that what was going on? It's a simple question. Everyone. Who knows such a government that would propose the adoption of such laws as would threaten the fundamental objective of adopting the euro? There's no such government. It's not on the left, not on the right. [[...]] [[A group in the background.]] Please don't let the holy three bother me. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u110	Peace in the hall! [[...]] [[A voice in the background.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u111	I know, ma'am, because I don't count you as the holy three. [[...]] [[Laugh.]] Look, raising premiums is optional. [[...]] This adoption of the law does not affect the raising of premiums. If you order your subjects, Jožet Lenič, to raise the premiums, they'll lift them up. Whether we adopt this law or not. If there were financial consequences, believe that the government is smart enough to identify and warn them. There aren't so many. The financial consequences may be due to the profit or loss in the assessment of ownership or capital in insurance companies. This could be a result of an increase in premiums. And the 15 billion, as far as there is damage that is not remediable, will be extremely difficult to make up for differently than with the increase in premiums. Not to mention the secret contracts of the former Prime Minister, like selling Geoplin to Petrol. How much this will affect inflation and everything, not premiums, but inflation definitely because someone will have to pay for it. And these are the facts that can influence that. Everything else, gentlemen, is pure demagogy and intimidation of this people. Oh, it's a new government, and now watch out for what you're gonna do. I know your goal is simply not to accept such laws and send representatives to Brussels to defend themselves. That's the most ridiculous thing I've ever done. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u112	Comrade Paul, please, if you'll finish.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u113	And it's not the government that I would really ask, Mr. President, and all that you're going to be chairing. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u114	Mr. Pavel Rupar, please close.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u115	Come on, please, calm the ball down in the defeated customers. Really, if not, there'll be anarchy. Pure anarchy.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u116	Mr. Pavel Rupar, please, if you'll stop. Thank you! We're voting on the law. Mrs Pečanova, if your procedural proposal is aimed at a dilemma that we have already identified, it will be the last time I will give you a procedural one. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u117	I have a procedural question whether there is anything written in the Rules of Procedure about the fact that the Presidents of the National Assembly may interrupt one of the Members or wish to interrupt the word, two of them, one of the asbestos law, and the other of them allowing the reasons for the vote to speak about everything but the explanation of the vote. Why did you not interrupt the urgent explanation for these two gentlemen?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u118	Please refer your question to the Business Commission or through the main office to me as a Member. We're moving to the vote. Here you go, Mrs. Shirtz. Procedural?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u119	I have an explanation for the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u120	I'm asking you to follow the rules we've set for each other, so I can't let you do that.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u121	In the agreement that you said that this provision had been unanimously adopted that after only two rounds you could obtain a list of explanations for the vote, there was no such agreement, so I have the right to explain the vote as it has been done since this Rules of Procedure were adopted.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u122	Mrs. Shirca, please, if you are so correct, you respect the agreement. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u123	I can't respect it unanimously. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u124	reached with regard to the unification [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u125	an agreement was reached because there was no agreement [[...]] [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u126	the management of the sitting. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u127	Some of us were against [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u128	On the other hand, I must say that this same arrangement [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u129	private negotiation [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u130	is bound solely to the fact that no one is restricted to the right to explain his or her vote. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u131	This moment is limited to me, Mr President.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u132	It is only about trying to get a list of those who apply for the first time and the second time, because of the ease of meeting, and that this is in the interest of better management of the meetings of the National Assembly, a better review. That's why I'm asking you to consider this.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u133	Misuse of the Rules of Procedure [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u134	Just as we responded to the others [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u135	I'm sorry if I fall into your word. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u136	similar and related themes we have told you that we will answer you. [[...]] Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u137	In short, can't I explain my voice?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u138	Mrs. Shirca, thank you. We're moving to the vote. There were 78 Members and Members present, 47 Members and Members voted against. 31 Members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 31.]] I take it the law has been passed. This concludes this agenda item.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u139	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! We're moving on to 10. Period of the day - defense proposal for a law on ratification. I'd like to ask if you could calm down in the hall. Thank you very much. One more time. We're moving on to 10. Agenda item - Defence proposal for a bill on the ratification of the World Health Organization Framework Convention for Tobacco Control. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Thank you very much. I have to warn you again. Here's a meeting of the National Assembly. The draft law was examined by the Committee on Foreign Policy and reported in writing to the assembly. As no amendment was adopted by the parent working body in the context of the second reading, there is no debate on articles and amendments. That is why we are moving on to the third reading, which is the decision on the proposal for a law. Anybody want to explain their voice? [[No, no, ……]] So we can vote. After the vote, I find that 48 Members, of the 48 present, voted against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I hereby conclude this agenda item. Thank you very much for representing the government. We're moving to 11. PERIOD OF THE DAY, IT IS AT THE CERTIFICATE OF THE OFFICIAL RELEVANT WORDS OF THE LAW. Officially revised texts were prepared by the Legislative and Legal Service of the Assembly and confirmed by the assembly without discussion. I propose to the Assembly that the decision on all the confirmations of the officially purified texts of the laws be made by one vote. Does anyone object to this proposal? I guess not. We are moving on to a decision on the following decision of the proposal for a decision: Officially purified texts are confirmed. They are listed in order on the agenda invitation. What kind of question would that be? Procedural? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u140	It is amazing that you already know what someone is going to ask or what someone is going to say, but if they don’t, then in some way you don’t want to give your word. I think it's a deal like this. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u141	Excuse me, Mr. Anderlich. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u142	I have a procedural agreement. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u143	That's all I want to say. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u144	I have a procedural objection to this point. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u145	That's all I want to say. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u146	it is not possible to carry out these points in the manner you have set it out in the Rules of Procedure. [[...]] I want to vote ten, but I don't want to vote 11 points, I'm talking as a hypothesis, I'm talking as a principle. If I have always opposed the adoption of any law, I also have the right to vote against the purified official text. And you have to give me that chance. It can't be any different. We can't accept 11 or what, 17 laws, or even more. Unfortunately, a large number of laws have been gathered in this case, and several more votes will be needed. But that's the rules. And the agreement that we will vote in the package on 37 laws, even if in the case of official consolidated texts, is contrary to the rules of procedure, is, after all, contrary to the basic procedure in the National Assembly. As you know, the procedure is the mother of democracy. Whatever you do is in the hands of the majority, but I strongly oppose it. At the very least, let the business commission tell you what it thinks. Nor is this a point that needs to be adopted at all costs today. However, if you have any other proposal, it must be justified. But in the way this is set, it is not possible to accept official purified texts.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u147	Thank you very much, Mr. Anderlich. There must have been a misunderstanding between us, because I very clearly asked when I read the first two paragraphs, or whether someone opposed this proposal. You may have reacted a little late. That's all. But I've been waiting. And when I waited, I said no when there was no one. Then I asked you nicely if you had, I probably thought you had another question or procedural one. I agree with the observation that this was done because, in the previous mandate, the practice of so many laws, I do not know exactly how many, is adopted in one package. [[...]] [[A voice in the background.]] Finally, representatives of the parliamentary groups who agreed to this proposal were present at the College of the President of the National Assembly. [[...]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u148	Such a proposal cannot be put on the agenda and agreed if it is contrary to the rules of procedure. There is nothing that can be agreed upon, even if everyone agrees.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u149	Thank you very much, Mr. Anderlich. I accept your remark. I'm asking if we're voting on everyone. [[...]] [[A voice in the background.]] We vote on each proposal individually. [[...]] Of all these corrected texts of Laws 1 to 39, we will vote on each of them individually. One. Corrigendum to the official consolidated text of the Construction Act. We're voting. Who's in? After the vote, 63 Members were present. 61 votes against 1. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] Thank you very much. Another time. Correction of the official consolidated text of the Police Act. We're voting. The vote is closed. I would like to point out from 61 Members present that there have been 60 votes against. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] Third time. General Administrative Procedure Act. We're voting. The vote is closed. I note that 60.1 votes against from 61 Members present. [[The vote was 60.]] [[Against one.]] Fourth time. The Law on Courts. We're voting. The vote is closed. Of the 62 members present, 61.1 voted against. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] Fifth. It's a primary school law. We're voting. The vote is closed. I find that there are 61 in attendance, 61 in favour, against no one. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] Judicial Service Act, six times. We're voting. The vote is closed. Of the 62 present, 62 were voted in favour. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] It's a cadastral income law. We're voting. Voting adjourned. 62 votes in favour from 62 to 62. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] Eight. Public sector wage system law. We're voting. Of the 62 present, 61 votes against 1. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] Nine. Law on the gradual closure of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik mine and the development restructuring of the region. We're voting. Of the 62 present, 61 votes against 1. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] Ten years. The Law on the Treatment of Genetically Modified Organisms. We're voting. It's out of 62 present for 61 and against no one. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[No one's against it.]] Eleventh time. The Act on the Establishment of Election Units for the Election of Members to the National Assembly. We're voting. Of the 62 present, 60 and 1. [[The vote was 60.]] [[Against one.]] Twelve. The law on preventing the consequences of mining in the mercury mine, Idria. We're voting. Of the 64 present is 64. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[No one's against it.]] Thirteenth time. The Tax Act on Payouts. We're voting. Of the 63 present, 62 and 1. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] Fourteenth time. It's an income law. We're voting. Of the 62 present, there are 61 and 1. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] Fifteenth. Plant Health Act. We're voting. Of the 64 present, 63 and 1. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] Sixteenth time. Law on the return of investments to the public telecommunications bank. We're voting. Of the 65 present is for 60 and for 3. [[The vote was 60.]] [[Against three.]] Seventeenth time. The Act of Offences. We're voting. Of the 64 present, there are 61 and 1. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] Act on the earthquake restoration of buildings and promotion of development in Posoča. We're voting. From the 66 present, they're all in favor. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] The law of metrology. We're voting. 64 present, all in favor. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] The law on referendum and human initiative. We're voting. Of the 65 present 62 for, one against. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] Health Act. We're voting. 63 present, all in favor. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] It's a weapons law. We're voting. Of the 66 present, all in favor. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] The Notary Act. We're voting. Of the 65 present 64 for. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] The law of pardon. We're voting. 65 present, 64 for, one against. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] The Road Transport Act. We're voting. 65 present, 64 for, one against. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] The Value Added Tax Act. We're voting. From 65 present 62 for, 1 versus. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] The Investment Funds and Management Companies Act. We're voting. The outcome of the vote. 66 present, 63 to, 2 to. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] Energy law. We're voting. Present 65, 63, 1. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] Act on the first pension fund of the Republic of Slovenia and the transformation of authorised investment companies. We're voting. 63 Members present, for 59, for 1. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] The Rail Traffic Act. We're voting. At 65, they're all in. [[The vote was 65.]] [[No one.]] The Law on Seed Material of Agricultural Plants. We're voting. The 67 Members present, all in favour. [[The vote was 67.]] [[No one.]] The Securities Market Act. We're voting. 67 present, all in favor. [[The vote was 67.]] [[No one.]] It's a company law. We're voting. 64 present, in favour of 63, against no one. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] Law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. From the 67 present, 56 votes to 8. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 8th.]] State Administration Act. We're voting. At 65, 54 votes against 7. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against the seven.]] The law on MPs. We're voting. 67, for vote 57, against 9. [[The vote was 57.]] [[Against the 9th.]] Law on corporate income tax. We're voting. From the 66 present it's 64 to one. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] Tax Procedure Act. We're voting. Of the 65 present is 65 for. [[The vote was 65.]] [[No one.]] Tax Service Act, with a clear text. We're voting. Of the 66 Members and Members present, 65 voted against none. [[The vote was 65.]] [[No one.]] I note that the assembly has formally consolidated the texts of those laws individually and that I conclude this item on the agenda. We're moving on to 12. At the end of the day, it's on casually loving matters. Under this item, the Assembly will consider the proposals of the Judicial Council, namely seven proposals for election to a judicial function and a notification by the District State Prosecutor in Ptuj concerning the criminal complaint lodged and the motion for prosecution against a Member of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, a proposal for a decision on the discharge and election of a member of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for the supervision of intelligence and security services, a proposal for a decision on the discharge of the Vice-President and the appointment of the Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for the supervision of the budget and other public finances, and a proposal for a decision on the discharge and appointment of the Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Petitions and for human rights and equal opportunities. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on individual proposals. Proposals for decisions on the election to a judicial function. The Council of Justice submitted to the National Assembly 7 proposals on the election to the judiciary, to the courts. Senior judge in the higher court in Maribor, and four district judges and two district judges at the district court in Kranj, Celje, Ljubljana and Murski Sobota. I also welcome the present Secretary of the Council of Justice, who attends the meeting. Does he want a word? No, no, no. Thank you. The proposals were addressed by the Commission's mandate-holder as the working body and submitted proposals for conclusions to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion, so we are moving on to a decision on individual proposals for decisions. First time. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election to the post of Magistrate Igor Strnad as a judge of the Supreme Court in Maribor. Anybody want to explain their voice? No, no, no. We're voting. I note that 60 of the 60 Members present voted in favour, i.e. all. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election to the judicial function of Mr Dejan Kmetec as a judge of the District Court in Kranj. Anybody want to explain their voice? No, no, no. Let's get to the vote. We're voting. From 61 present, 60 for, against no one. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. I am putting to the vote a motion for a decision on the election of Ms Špela Jakopic, to the judge's seat at the District Court in Kranj. Anybody want to explain their voice? No, no, no. We're voting. Of 61 present, 59 and no one. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[No one's against it.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. I am voting on the motion for decisions on the election of Ms Brigita Trnovšek Pinter to the District Court of Justice in the District Court of Celje. Anybody want to explain their voice? No, no, no. We're voting. Of the 62 present, 60 voted in favour, and no one. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one's against it.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Suzanne Ivanič Lovrin to the District Court in the District Court of Ljubljana. Anybody want to explain their voice? No, no, no. We're voting. The outcome of the vote. Of the 62 present, 60 and 1. [[The vote was 60.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Melita Štefančič to the District Court in the District Court of Ljubljana. Anybody want to explain their voice? No, no, no. We're voting. There are 61 present for 59 and no one. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[No one's against it.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election to the judicial function of Mr Stanislav Žiška as judge of the District Court in the District Court of Murska Sobota. Anybody want to explain their voice? No, no, no. We're voting. I find out that out of the 60 present 57 voted in favour and no one voted against. [[The vote was 57.]] [[No one's against it.]] The proposed decision was adopted by the assembly. Consideration of the notification of the District Attorney's Office in Ptuj concerning the criminal complaint lodged and the motion for prosecution against the Member of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, Aloys Sok. The announcement was forwarded to the District Attorney's Office in Ptuj for consideration. The notification was considered by the Commission’s mandate-holder as the working body and submitted a proposal for a decision to the assembly. The Commission's rapporteur wants a word? Here you go. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u150	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A well-respected choir. At its 4th meeting, on 13 January 2005, the Council of State of the Republic of Slovenia issued a notice from the District Attorney's Office in Ptuj informing us that a criminal indictment and a motion for prosecution for a criminal offence had been filed against Aloise Sok. The State Prosecutor's Office in Ptuj also requested an answer to the question whether Mr Aloise Sok was granted immunity by the State Assembly or not, although the Member in charge of the pre-trial procedure did not refer to parliamentary immunity, which I think is particularly important to stress. It also seems important to me to point out that at the meeting of the election commission, to which Mr Aloise Sok was also invited and attended this meeting, he explained that he did not refer to immunity. Once again, Mr Sok explained at the meeting of this Commission that immunity was not invoked. In the light of these facts, the Commission proposed a decision, as follows from the material, not to grant immunity to the Member of the Slovenian National Assembly to Mr Aloise Sok and to allow the initiation of a criminal procedure. In doing so, I would like to point out in particular that 10 matters of immunity have been dealt with in the 2004 mandate and that only two times have been granted immunity to Members, but that we have already dealt with two or today's third case in this mandate and that, in no case, I am sure that, even in today's vote, the immunity of Members has not been granted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u151	Thank you very much, Mr. Sušnik. In accordance with the first paragraph of Rule 207 of the Rules of Procedure, there is no debate on immunity matters, so we are moving to a decision on the proposal for a decision, which reads as follows: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, pursuant to Article 83 of the Constitution of Slovenia and Article 22 of the Law on Members concerning the notification of the District Attorney's Office on Ptuj of 24.11.2004 with regard to the criminal charges filed and the motion for criminal prosecution against the Member of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr. Alojz Sok for a criminal offence under Article 170(1) concerning the second paragraph of Article 178 of the Criminal Code, does not recognize the immunity of the Member of the National Assembly of Slovenia to Mr. Alojz Sok and allow the initiation of criminal proceedings." Mr. Kangler, would you like a word?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u152	Mr. Kangler. You want a word? Please explain your voice, no debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u153	Thank you for your word. I will not support such a proposal myself, even though I respect the decision of Ambassador Sok. However, I will not support this proposal because I myself have the right to define the issue of the immunity of Members on a case-by-case basis, and also in this case I will abstain for the following reasons. Anyway, it's slander. If the information I have doesn't fool me, it's a lawsuit where two MPs are suing. And I am sure that such actions, and in view of the debates and content that will be held in the future in the National Assembly on constitutional changes, will affect both the work of the individual Member and probably also the decisions of individual Members in certain substantive debates. And I think it is very embarrassing and, in my personal opinion, also inappropriate to say such or other words as the Member or anyone else whose work is related to the Member, to say that words and proceedings are found in court. And don't let any of these parties in the process that are involved in any of the proceedings blame me. That's my personal opinion. And once again, I will not support the conclusion. I respect Mr Sok's decision and will abstain for these reasons.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u154	Thank you. I'm gonna ask you one more time. There is no discussion under the Rules of Procedure. It's just an explanation of the voice. Please, Mr. Rupar. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u155	Thank you very much, Comrade Chairman. I'm sorry, Comrade Sok. I won't take your wishes into consideration. I will not vote for your proposal or against it. Simply because it seems so pointless to me that a Member who renounces immunity, but exposes himself to this national assembly, decides whether or not to do so, that the stupider things in this national assembly cannot possibly happen to me than that. Therefore, the debate on this immunity is well under way in the public eye for a long time. I am of the opinion that this National Assembly should start a constitutional change in this area as soon as possible, but that it would simply eliminate immunity because of the will of people and because of the condemnation and because of everything we are experiencing. And another matter, if this immunity should already be enshrined in the Constitution, then we should definitely delete that if the Member decides not to accept it, we should not decide on it. It is his personal will, it is the will of the one who takes part in the proceedings in any way but not of all of us. So much for reflection. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u156	Thank you very much. Mr Barovic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Since we are dealing with immunity in the National Assembly, regardless of Mr Aloise Sok's refusal, I think we are talking about immunity. I will personally vote against the proposal for a decision, against, I will not abstain - against! Because the words were spoken and related to the work of the National Assembly. And if we are today regardless of his decision, because this is what we are talking about if we don't talk about what Mr Sok said to deny immunity, it would be fine. But since we are talking about this, I will be against the conclusion, because I believe that his immunity belongs to him, because the words have been spoken in connection with the work of the National Assembly, where we now have, thank God, democracy.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u158	Thank you very much. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. Of the 59 present, 48 are for the proposed decision, against 4. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against four.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. Proposal for a decision on the discharge and election of a member of the Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for the supervision of intelligence and security services. The proposal was submitted by the New Slovenia parliamentary group for consideration. There are no applications for discussion, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the discharge and election of a member of the Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for the supervision of intelligence and security services. In doing so, I inform you that, on the basis of the second paragraph of Article 10 of the Law on parliamentary control of intelligence and security services, a decision will be adopted if the majority of Members vote for it, i.e. 46 or more. Anybody want to explain their voice? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're voting. Of the 59 present Members and Members, 57 voted against none. [[The vote was 57.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. Proposal for a decision on the discharge of the Vice-President and the appointment of a Vice-President of the Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to oversee the budget and other public finances. The proposal was submitted to the assembly by the parliamentary groups. I give the floor to the representative of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, Mr Miran Potrč, to present the position.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u159	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues. On this occasion, I think it is right to point out that, in creating managerial functions in the working bodies, all of us, including colleagues, also the National Assembly, have overlooked the provisions of the new Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, by which the governing functions in the supervisory bodies, including in the Committee of the National Assembly for Budgetary Control and Public Finance, are always opposition. And this was the reason why we, in the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, have proposed that Mrs Breda Pecan, a member of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, be the Vice-President of this Committee. The College has also taken note of this and I expect it to be so at the National Assembly. However, let me say that I regret that, in the following case, the Vice-President of the Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Petitions and for human rights and equal opportunities was not properly understood, so let me say that on behalf of the Group against the proposal, which I have voted on today's agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u161	I don't know if he's in place, but I'd still like to ask, because it says here that Vice President Andrej Bajuk is to be dismissed. Dr Andrej Bajuk has been away from Parliament for a long time, so I don't know if this is it; it is said that there is no Vice-President at this point as I understand it.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u162	The answer should be that it should be formally resolved. This concludes the debate and brings us to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the discharge of the Vice-President and the appointment of a Vice-President of the Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to oversee the budget and other public finances. Anybody want to explain their voice? Please, Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u163	In my own name. I will, of course, vote in favour of this decision. Unfortunately, it is also possible for a college to appoint and prepare a proposal because of one procedure, which, in my view, was too transparent, to make this mistake, that is clearly contrary to Article 33(3). As President-elect, I have also found this, I have suggested to the United Nations Group that they also give it formally, and it is good that the College has accepted it. What is not good - and therefore, of course, I believe that there is still some confusion in the work of this Commission - but that there is still no sufficient number of members on this committee, so that this could indeed be the so-called commission led by and in which the majority of the opposition has the opposition. However, I would suggest that this additional step be taken in the college, which would also include and increase the number of members of this Commission. However, with regard to this commission as its chairman, and I am pleased that Mrs Pečanova will become Vice-President, he would like to say that we are trying to act apolitically, because we believe that this is about controlling public spending, where we all have the same responsibility. I will vote in favour of this decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Perhaps I would just say that the number of members is decided at the College of the President of the National Assembly and so it has been concluded and anything else should be addressed to that body. I conclude the debate and move on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the discharge of the Vice-President for the appointment of a Vice-President of the Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to oversee the budget and other public finances. Anybody else want to explain? No, I'm done with that, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We're voting. The outcome of the vote. Of the 61 present, 58 and 1. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. Proposal for a decision on the discharge and appointment of a Vice-President of the Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for petitions and for human rights and equal opportunities. The proposal was submitted to the assembly by the parliamentary groups. I give the floor to the representative of the Group of Members, Mr Mag. Squeaky, to present your point of view. Can I help you? LDS emissaries.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u165	Thank you very much. We will object to this proposal in the parliamentary club, because the parliamentary club cannot agree to the related trade and, of course, this tied trade was made by the New Slovenia Group unjustifiably obtaining a seat as Vice-President of the Committee on Budgetary Control and, of course, when it was found that this is prohibited by the Rules of Procedure, the College of the President of the National Assembly voted, of course, by the majority of the ruling coalition, this discharge by the Vice-President of the Commission for Petitions and Appointment, because this would be justified, a new official or a new official from the New Slovenia. We note, of course, that the New Slovenia Group therefore absolutely exceeds the number of points which, according to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, would belong to this Group of Members, so that we consider it inappropriate that the complication or opposition to the provisions of Article 33(3) of the Rules of Procedure has been resolved in this way and that we will therefore oppose this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u166	Thank you very much for presenting the position of the LDS Group. There will be a debate between Members and Members. All he ever said was "mag." It's a joke she's giving up. There were no other reports. I conclude the debate and move on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the discharge and appointment of the Vice-President of the Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for petitions and for human rights and equal opportunities. Anybody want to explain their voice? Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u167	On behalf of the Group of Members, I would like to say that we will support this proposal. There was no trade involved in this; the truth is what Comrade Potsch said. So when we decided on the weighted division of managerial functions in the working bodies of the National Assembly, the Vice-President’s seat on the Committee on Budgetary Control and Other Public Finances was allocated to New Slovenia. We later found that under our rules this city belongs to the opposition. And if we didn't actually get a Vice-President's seat on another commission, it would be that the Liberal Democracy would have a larger number of points, not like my colleague Squeakle said, to get me more points with this. Since we were unable to agree, it was decided at the college that the city on the petitions and equal opportunities committee should be allocated to New Slovenia, which we also accepted and proposed to this place a colleague, Mrs Marjeto Uhan. This will achieve another business provision, namely, that the post of President and Vice-President belong to different options, says one position to the position and another to the opposition. If the two cities were to remain as they are now, the President and the Vice-President would be in the management of the opposition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u168	Thank you very much. Ma'am mag. Spending.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u169	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! I will not support the proposed decision on discharge and appointment of a new Vice-President. Otherwise, I am the President of the Commission on which the word is on the table and the Vice-President's seat was initially not envisaged in this committee. The College decided to take into account the proposal of who would receive - first on the establishment of this city and then on the appointment. We have confirmed this, and then the appointment and these concerns as to whether two management functions could be in the hands of the same political direction, whether opposition or not, was not mentioned at the time. As regards the conversion of points in the weighting of management functions in this case, too, I said earlier that this was subsequently determined. I apologize to honourable Mrs Uhan, I have nothing personal against her appointment when I say "against" because she is the only one from New Slovenia who is on this committee. However, the way we made this change is unacceptable to me, so I will object. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Mrs. Pecan has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u171	Thank you for your word. I will vote against this decision, because it is evident that the leadership of the National Assembly, which is known to be in charge of the position, functions by constantly playing business rules and, when it comes to it, refers to business provisions that are completely concrete. Secondly, the Rules of Procedure take away the words of Members and Members, just as they do to someone. If anyone thinks that because of this decision - I have no doubt that it will be adopted - there will be a conflict within two, I can say, the only two opposition parties in this national assembly, then the leadership of the national assembly is very wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to explain their voice? Mrs. Shirca. I ask again who wants to explain the voice, because Mrs Shirca raised her hand first. Mr. Squeakle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u173	Fortunately, we have the same options this time, unlike before when we didn't have them to explain our voices. I have been Vice-President for several weeks of difficult-to-achievable committee of the National Council for Petitions, Human Rights and Equal Opportunities. I was pleased that the proposal, which, as I say, was difficult to reach, was, however, finally reached that this Commission would be set up in this or other version and will certainly have a lot of obligations in this mandate, which has already proved to be so far. Unfortunately, I was taken away by the bound trade or by mathematics that made no sense. I will remain a member, and I will be happy to do this work, especially as I have said before, because it pleases me that we have this commission at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u174	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u175	I'm sorry, but of course I'll support my discharge.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Mr. Rupar has the floor. If you'll give your word to Mr. Squeak, please, Mr. Squeakle. Your Honor, I'm going to go on with my life now because I've allowed myself a few smiles. Mr. Rupar, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u177	Thank you for making that decision, Mr President. But surely, by the way, it would make sense to see who raises his hand first and who has the word, because - I apologize - it is not my fault that I am in front of you now. Of course I'll support the proposal. Binding trade up or down, even in the previous proposal, we can be absolutely suspicious of going to a tied trade. Besides, I don't know how to confirm a person, because I was the only one against, I'm sorry, I'm not, I actually did so consciously - to control the budget. The purest, most indisputable persons should be the most indisputable! But not people who have more criminals than I have on their necks who have more black constructions than I have on my neck, who have different rustlings in the congregations more when I'm on my neck, but it's a deal. I want to say that this is an agreement within the college, within the national assembly, within the parliamentary groups and in this decision, whatever they are, we must also take account of moral and ethical inclinations, not otherwise. I will absolutely support the proposal, although I also sincerely say that I am sorry, Mrs Shirce, that it is not the Vice-President. I've had good experience working with her before. However, I think that, according to its will in this Committee, it will also be able to cooperate properly in the future. Just one more thought. Speaking of committee or petition, equal opportunities; ladies, now you are more than men there. By drawing attention to a balanced force, of course, the President and the Vice-President are also women. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u178	Thank you very much, Mr. Rupar. Mr. Squeakle has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u179	Let me explain my voice. I will vote against it because I will vote in accordance with what is stated in the Rules of Procedure. And the Rules of Procedure make it clear that if the president of the working body is a member of the ruling coalition's representatives, the Vice-President of the working body is usually of the kind of opposition sent by the opposition groups and vice versa. So he's talking about "rules." So that the gentleman who has now interpreted that it is not possible for two MPs from the same or historic parties as regards non-participation in the government to be - this is nothing wrong. I would therefore suggest that - and I will vote in accordance with the rules of procedure. Above all, I will vote against this because the basic principle, in order to take account of the size of the groups of Members, has been violated several times in these related trades. Finally, also with this change that we have pointed out, because it was clear that New Slovenia does not belong to the Vice-President of the Committee on Budgetary Control, unless, of course, someone thinks that the former President must necessarily be Vice-President of the new Commission. And so, of course, it seems to me that this amendment to the College of Presidents of the National Assembly has been made very improperly. And, of course, we are taking advantage of the opportunity to tell the Slovenian public that the appointments of presidents, vice-presidents, are changing with regard to the coalition's availability. Like someone who spoke before me, he said he was going to call on one of our Members for a replacement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u180	Thank you, Mr. Squeakle. This is no longer part of the explanation of vote. This concludes the second round of explanations of vote. Whatever remains and whoever then has volunteered for the word - Mr Potrč the first, Mrs Possončeva the second - may still be a procedural issue. Please, Mr. Potch, do you have a procedural question?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Mr Vice-President, I am merely procedurally saying that I will raise the issue of decision-making or voting on explanations at the College. For I was the only one who made it clear what would happen if such a decision were taken and also against it. I think it's bad, and it's just causing confusion and complications in the National Assembly. But I think it's right for me to say it, too, that I was against it, and I warned you what was going to happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u182	Thank you very much, Mr Potč, for I agree with this, for I have tried several times, when the word came to explain my voice in the debate or in the debate, to stop. This notice should therefore be addressed to all Members who make themselves known. Please, Mrs. Possonec, do you want a procedural question?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u183	I have a replica of the performance. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u184	There's no replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u185	What do you mean, he's
ParlaMint-SI_2005-01-26-SDZ4-Redna-02.ana.u186	There is no replica in explanation of vote, and now we have an explanation of vote. That's my conclusion. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. After the vote, I note that out of 68 Members and Members present, 43 were present and against 25. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 25.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. I hereby conclude this item on the agenda and at the same time conclude the second meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia.
