ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u1	Dear Members and fellow Members! Ladies and gentlemen! I begin the continuation of the 7th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mr Anton Anderlič, mag. Milan M. Squeakle, Victory Jelinčič Noble, mag. Janez Kramberger, Breda Pecan and Dr Mitja Slavinec. We're moving to four. It's a second-hand proposal for a law on radiotelevision of Slovenia. Before continuing with this point, I would like to inform you that this morning an initiative has also come for voters and voters to collect signatures to request the call for a preliminary legislative referendum on the Radiotelevision of Slovenia Act, EPA 206/4. In view of what has come this morning, the President of the National Assembly must decide within three days what further procedures will be followed. However, the National Assembly on the proposed agenda or second reading of the proposal for the Radio Television Act Slovenia may discuss or continue its work. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Please. Procedural question. Here you go, Mr. Skull.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u2	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues, colleague! It would be unusual for a meeting to continue in the situation where the referendum initiative is being tabled. Why unusual? We do not know at this point the content of the referendum initiative, nor do we know whether it is capable of continuing the procedure. It would therefore be useful for the President of the National Assembly, who has powers in relation to these procedures, to clarify all these issues before this debate continues. It would be illogical for the National Assembly to hold a second hearing today, and then electorates, voters in the referendum, would decide on certain issues that could possibly be resolved against what the Ministry of Culture proposes. It would therefore be necessary to stop this debate today in order to clarify these issues within three days. However, the President of the National Assembly, who put a great deal of pressure on the previous mandate of the People's Initiative, could do what was usually done to put an end to the legislative process in the National Assembly, so that these issues are dealt with in advance and then the National Assembly decides to proceed. Last but not least, we have done so in the case of the trade law, where, I will say, the trade union brought a similar initiative before the second hearing, and at that time the legislative procedure in the National Assembly was halted. That was right after the first reading. I'm talking about the previous term. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] We could talk about it back, too. [[...]] It therefore seems unacceptable to me that the President of the National Assembly does not see that the National Assembly is in a position to bring him great difficulties in the visa of understanding the procedures and the visa of solutions that the National Assembly can adopt. Therefore, the proposal of our Group of Members is [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] to stop this point at this point, to gain this initiative, to gain the formal position of the President of the National Assembly on this initiative and then to move forward.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u3	Your proposal was, once again, if you'd like to repeat it.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u4	That this meeting should be suspended at this time. The President of the State Dawn must provide us with an initiative and his position in relation to such initiatives under the law. Only then can the debate continue.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Would you like a word, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u6	Indeed, today a notice or initiative has come to collect signatures for the previous legislative referendum. Ours and professional services have been given the initiative. The signatures will be checked. The content of this initiative is also clear and clear that the procedure is proceeding as required by the law on referendum and human initiative. But there's no obstacle to us starting and doing any other treatment. However, if the initiative is appropriate, it will certainly be necessary to stop work before the third hearing. A third treatment would not be admissible if the initiative was appropriate. I don't think there's any obstacle. It is, however, a proposal to suspend the meeting, a legal procedural proposal and to put it to the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u7	Thank you. The proposal was submitted by Mr. Skolcz. Procedural question? [[No, no, ……]] The proposal was adopted and, pursuant to Article 73(3), we must decide on this proposal. We're voting. There were 65 votes in favour, 23 against 39. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 39.]] I find that the proposal has not been put to the vote. Please, Mr. Potch, do you have a procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u8	I officially received this morning's proposal, the initiative of voters and voters to collect signatures on the table. Given that we have received it today and that it certainly constitutes an intervention in the procedure for the adoption of the law, one such or another, but it means an intervention, I suggest that the President of the National Assembly convenes a college to inform us of this and that we agree at the College on how we will continue to conduct the procedure. I think it is irresponsible of the initiators if we do not at least do so and exchange views on what are the options and how. This is a procedural proposal, if you understand it correctly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mr President, perhaps an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u10	I don't know. It's not normal for a conversation like this to happen. Of course, within three days of the law, the National Assembly is obliged to consider the initiative, examine the appropriateness of the text, the credibility of the signatures, etc. Clearly, these things are on the move and, of course, you will all be informed in full detail about all these matters, but this does not prevent us from continuing the work of the second hearing now. That's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u11	Thank you very much. I would like to reiterate this once again that it has been said that the President of the National Assembly must give an answer within three days. Under the law on referendum and civil initiative, we can discuss this until the third hearing. Procedural question. Please. Mr. Potts.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u12	Look, I'm going to say maybe in inappropriate terms, but this, Mr President, what you're saying is that it gives you the right to make your own decisions, it can only mean such or other additional complications in the House. We know the Rules of Procedure, I also know the Law of Referendum and I know that it is possible to hold a debate until the third hearing. But I also know that we can make a different decision. I think it would be right, it is not true, I do not think it would be right that it would be right for Mr President, who has a college, but sometimes the leaders of the groups and vice-presidents to ask, but not only to decide, and then to think that every word that is said on his account, at the expense of his decisions, is a violation of his integrity. [[...]] Mr President, this is the collective decision of this National Assembly and allow us to have 10, 15 minutes of dedication to give you opinions on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u13	I'd like to ask for procedural questions. Please repeat your proposal again, Mr Potch. You've made a proposal now.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u14	My proposal is that in 15, 20 minutes' time the work of the National Assembly will be suspended, a college will meet if the President voluntarily wishes to refer him and there will be an exchange of information on the work to be done on this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u15	Mr President, I would like your answer in this case. Is that what you want?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u16	I don't see any need to interrupt. We have already voted once, and most of it is for the work to continue. I wouldn't want to oppose most of the national council.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u17	Another procedural question. Mr. Skolcz raised his hand. Yes or no? [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Barovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u18	Thank you very much. Look, Mr Vice-President, no matter what we think about the law itself, what we will do with our work below, we are only assessing in the Slovenian National Party's Group that there is no other time than to put forward a procedural proposal that has been put to the vote. Therefore, I ask that we do not waste time; a procedural proposal has been made; let us put it to the vote. If we don't get a break, if we don't, we're gonna start work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u19	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a debate on the proposal for a law on Radiotelevision of Slovenia. I give the floor to the representative. [[...]] Procedural question.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u20	On behalf of the Group of Members, I request that we have a recess. I do not hope to say at this point how much time, because we want to gain the initiative of the signatories in this break, to examine it and then to communicate how we will continue to participate in the work. Without the Members and Members of our group seeing the meaning of this initiative, it is entirely illogical to discuss all the articles of this law, to take decisions and then to come into the situation that, at third reading, they might not possibly be able to accept any supplement that could have been at the people's will. To decide on this point, this is, I will say, absolutely necessary material and please order a recess and provide us with this material.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u21	Mr. Školč, there is no way by the rules of procedure to give me a break, so you're embarrassing me a little bit. Maybe another procedural question? Please, Mr. Battelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u22	The amendments contain solutions that, if I may put it that way, propose incentives. I think that this is also a fact that needs to be taken into account in addressing the issue that has now been raised.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u23	Mr. Battelli, I understand half of you, not half of you, because it sounds so bad. But I would have continued with our work. Here you go, Mr. Pavliha.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u24	My fellow Vice-President, I apologize that I am announcing myself, but I would still read the second paragraph of Article 73 in order for the chairman to suspend the work, which means that he must stop the work of the National Assembly if the Head of the Group so requests before the decision. [[...]] [[ad from the bench.]] Mr Školč, as I know, spoke on behalf of the leader of the Group of Members. [[..]] And you have to do it in 45 minutes, as stated in this paragraph. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u25	Thank you very much, Mr. Pavlich. Anyway, I said I was a little embarrassed. However, from all that has been said so far, I would only decide to put to the vote whether the meeting is suspended or not. I propose that we vote on the adjournment of the half-hour meeting and that Members take note of the initiative put forward and at the same time discuss our work further. The vote is under way. I note that from the 67 Members present, 28 votes to 37. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 37.]] This is called a proposal to suspend the meeting. I give the floor to a government representative to further explain the proposal for a law on Radiotelevision of Slovenia. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u27	Mr. Secretary, there's one more thing I'd like to ask you if you could go on stage.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u28	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President! Dear Members and Members! Before I once again present the proposal for a new law or certain problems about RTV Slovenia, I would like to draw the attention of the National Assembly to the new situation concerning the public institution, which says much about its unclear functioning. Yesterday, in a personal conversation, I checked rumors and received confirmation that the RTV Slovenia Council decided today at today's meeting whether RTV should sell most of Eutelsat's shares. Thinking about selling these shares has been in the air for a long time, and it is obvious that intensive preparations began in secret at a time when we tabled a new proposal for an RTV law. The sale decision fell last week without any government or parliament being informed about it, so I sent the Director-General a notice that the Council should withdraw this item from the agenda, because I believe that the government and Parliament must be informed in due time and in depth. I believe that at least a few days should be available to the competent services for consideration and consideration of this decision. Public RTV is not a private company where it juggles securities, but the founder must be informed of such decisions in due time. In the debate on the budget balance, a huge amount of time has been spent on a decision of some 10 million, and this is about billions. This further proves that the consideration of this proposal for an RTV law is essential and that this area requires a new regime that will ensure the transparent functioning of this public institution, which must act in the interest and well for the benefit of all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia who pay a contribution to the operation of this institution with one purpose: to be informed objectively. As far as laws are concerned, it is known that there is no public issue that all people would have the same opinion on, and it is therefore understandable that some solutions are not always the same. It is only a pity that the quality of the proposed Radiotelevision Act Slovenia finds that undermining is not based on facts. I myself have spoken more extensively before this High Council and before the representatives of the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport, but some do not want to hear the arguments and insist on opposing the new proposal. Those who feel that it is necessary to maintain a non-modern and harmful law want to maintain the existing state of affairs by means of apparent additions and obstructional delays. In his report published on 6 June 2005 in the rapporteur, the Chairman of the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport took up the Committee's discussion. The committee was adopted after 30 amendments, 25 were rejected and the others became irrelevant or withdrawn when the amendments were adopted. In the second reading of the National Assembly, we now have a complementary proposal for the law on RTV Slovenia. Along with the amendments adopted, it is more comprehensive than it was before. In all, Europe is comparable because it meets all the European standards applicable to the functioning of public broadcasting in the EU. This bill allows, as elsewhere in free democratic countries, public broadcasting, with its own revenues, with a transparent operation, with a clearly defined responsibility at all levels and with autonomous journalists. Controversial tones and revelations to the bill's proposer to support public broadcasting by means of a new law, or to obtain government radio television by implementing the new bill, have no basis. The proposal for a new law does not contain any provisions which could be interpreted as a wish for its maintenance. The status form of RTV Slovenia will continue to be a public institution, and the most important security guard in the Council of Europe documents will be maintained as a guarantee of the independence of public broadcasting services, an independent source of funding. It is also very positive that the new bill provides for a combination of programming and managerial responsibility in the role of Director-General. The better and more transparent regulation of the managing authority is, in particular, due to the findings of shortcomings in this area, which has been pointed out for a long time by the RTV Slovenia Supervisory Committee, also provided for in some of the other proposed articles. However, all solutions, including the appointment of a Programme Council, follow the good practices of many EU countries. Despite these facts, some continue to insist on the assessment that the new way of appointing the Programme Council reduces the impact of civil society and will negatively affect the autonomy of the journalistic work. In fact, the bill does not jeopardise journalistic autonomy in any way. The solution to the appointment of a majority of civil society representatives to the Programme Council by Members is established in European countries as one of the most democratic solutions. In doing so, it must be said that the arbitral choice of civil society organisations which, after the current law, appoint their members to the world of RTV Slovenia has often been problematic in recent years because it does not reflect the interests of the entire civil society and conceals the actual impact of policy on the functioning of the world. The new law corrects and allows anyone, especially the users of television services, i.e. viewers and listeners, to propose their members to the programming board. Apriorous mistrust that a national assembly from among the proposed candidates will not choose one that will represent the interests of the widest public is in no way in place, especially if we take into account the condition set out in the bill, which reads: "In the RTV Slovenia Programme Council, elected or appointed persons can be elected who, with their knowledge, reputation or achievements in cultural, educational or any other area of social life, can contribute to good functioning and to strengthening the reputation of public television in both the Republic of Slovenia and abroad." The promotion of mistrust in the work of the National Assembly also has wider negative consequences, as it shows the work of Members and the poor situation of democratic institutions in an unjustifiable light. Moreover, there is no doubt that there are many prominent people in Slovenia, with high democratic principles proposed by civil society and which the National Assembly will not be able to overlook when appointing to the Programme Council. It is extremely underestimating and insulting to attribute to these people political bias and to give up these people a democratic spirit. It is also the responsibility of the legislator to elect the members of the Programme Council. For its possible abuse of the appointment of public confidence in the programming council by the National Assembly, the policy will be responsible for the elections. While this direct responsibility is now avoided or avoided by policy, although it is quite evident that, as the generally accepted conclusion of the European constitutional profession in systems where civil society itself appoints its representatives, the RTV saints, originally conceived as guarantees of independence from the State and other power centres, are in fact turning themselves into agents of political influence. This is clearly told about the situation and the affairs and exit from the Council of RTV Slovenia in recent years. It is also necessary to mention in this place the fact that no one was disturbed, namely that the current law on Radiotelevision of Slovenia is inconsistent with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The Constitutional Court has found that the current law on RTV Slovenia has not been in conformity with the Constitution for 12 years, as it does not regulate the right of employees of the institution to participate in the management of the institution through the Council of Workers of the Institute. Of course, the new proposal, in addition to many improvements, eliminates this lack of compliance with the Constitution. If I return to the issue of the Programme Council, I must point out that the appointment to the Programme Council requires not only public responsibility on the part of the National Assembly, because the members of the National Assembly place their accounts on the electoral side, but the parliamentary majority who make their decisions with measurable responsibility, the new bill itself clearly and unequivocally imposes in Article 17 due diligence and responsibility, which comes from the precise determination in this Article, who cannot be a member of this Council and what persons worthy of public confidence they can be. Those who try to reduce or even completely destroy the value of this new proposal do not want to see and understand what the law says. In doing so, it is worth mentioning Protocol C of the European Communities to the Amsterdam Treaty, which gives Member States of the European Union full freedom to organise and finance public service in the field of radio and television. Because countries have different traditions and these dictate their own model of public television, which best reflects their economic, social, cultural, historical and other realities. Nevertheless, the experience of each individual and the common experience of these countries has led in most of the European Union to the establishment of organisational models that are specific but at the same time comparable. This is therefore the result of knowledge in individual countries, both those with a longer democratic tradition and those with a shorter one. But it is common for all to respect mutually agreed democratic rules and standards. Let's see how the councils are assembled in public broadcasts. In Germany, we have three public broadcasts, where the situation is very specific, which we have already pointed out in Parliament when the opinions are presented in public. However, these three public televisions also have the majority of members of the worlds set up by politics. In Austria, the Council is made up of 35 members, 24 of whom are called politics, 6 are from the world of viewers and 5 are from the ranks of employees. The world of viewers has no decisive role to play in the management of our newspapers, but only six members are elected to the ÖFR Council. Czech Republic - The Council of Public Television is appointed by Parliament. Norway - 14 members are appointed by the Parliament, the President and the Vice-President by the King. Denmark - the Minister of Culture appoints the bodies of execution and the national council of RTV. The Executive Body shall be the Management Board of nine members. All appointed by the Minister, three on his proposal, five proposed to the Minister of Parliament, one proposed by the staff. The Netherlands - the Council is appointed by the competent minister, the programme is supervised by the Programme Council, which is also appointed by the Minister. Hungary has three institutions with the character of public RTV. Members shall be appointed by Parliament and by certain civil society organisations. Parliament shall appoint the Presidency of each Management Board, Parliament shall appoint each of the three Committees, at least eleven members, 21 members of each Board shall appoint certain other organisations. The most problematic was the regulation in Hungary, where they demanded a 2/3 majority vote on important things, and it turned out that there was a total blockade, and so the government actually or leads all those political options that have the most votes. Poland - members of the Management Board are appointed by the Supervisory Board and the Supervisory Board is appointed by the National Council and the Minister of Finance. The National Council has nine members. It's all political, Parliament, the Senate and the President. Estonia - nine members are appointed by parliament. Croatia - 11 members and programme councils are elected by the Croatian Parliament. Iceland - Parliament and the Minister of Culture appoints members of the Council, 7 members are appointed by Parliament from among themselves. I'm not gonna tell you how it's going in there. The Director-General shall be appointed by the Minister, etc. Ireland - the world is appointed by the competent minister, i.e. the telecommunications agency, and the public RTV world is appointed by the government. Belgium - the Director-General is appointed by the Government and all other members of the Council. Cyprus - nine members of the Council are appointed by the government, the same Director-General is appointed by the government. Finland - 21 members of the Council are appointed by Parliament. Norway - 9 members, Parliament appoints members of the Council, the Ministry of Culture of the World is represented by Parliament. Greece - most in the world is appointed by the government. Lithuania - 12 members of the world, 8 appointed by politics and 4 appointed by the world for science, the world for education, the society of artists and the Lithuanian Bulgarian Conference. Malta - Minister of Telecommunications appoints members of the administration of radio and television. France - the direct role of the President of the State, who appoints three members, three Presidents of Parliament, three Senatees. Spain - the world has 12 members, Congress appoints 6, 6 Senate. Great Britain - the world of governors appoints the queen's attorney after consulting the government. Sweden - public broadcasting is managed by employees. Organisational arrangements for public broadcasting are the result of a wide variety of historical, economic, social circumstances. As regards appointment in the body of administration, there are so many differences, but mainly, as has been shown, only as to whether the appointment is by Parliament, the government, the President of the State or the competent minister. As some of us see, we have in the European Union, not public, but only state television. If I could just add this, just to sum up five lines. The proposal for a new law on Radiotelevision of Slovenia is European comparable and meets all the high standards applicable to the operation of radiotelevision in the European Union. But even more important than European comparability is that the new bill provides the basis for the possibility of public Radiotelevision of Slovenia working successfully for the benefit of all Slovenian public. I expect the National Assembly to do its work at a high level and adopt a new proposal on Radio Television of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary. The draft law was also considered by the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport as a parent working body. I ask the chairman of the committee, Magus Branko Grims, to present the report of the committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u30	Thank you, for your word. All the nice greetings, especially for those who are not in the hall now, because there is a need to flee from the arguments. At its meeting, the Committee considered the draft law and also the amendments, which were drawn up on the basis of a broad public debate, to which the Committee itself contributed a great deal, as it called for a public presentation of opinions, which is likely to be record-breaking in the history of the National Assembly. On this basis, the Committee has adopted, including amendments to the amendments, the good 30 amendments and thus proved that, of course, it has taken its commitment very seriously to take into account as much as possible and thus further complement and improve the law. What is crucial, and this will be the content of all my debates today, is what the public could not know, and it was also presented at the meeting of the committee and, of course, because the public could not know it, one of the arguments for the immediate adoption of the new law and for the implementation of the parliamentary channel, where people can actually convince themselves of the arguments and arguments against it, as well as of the way in which one or the other works is collected. Madam, I am talking about the Committee's report. I would like to ask the President to ensure that I do not have a word for it. The key findings on the basis of which the Committee adopted its decisions were that, following the current decision of the Constitutional Court, the law on RTV is now in force in violation of the Constitution. Therefore, for the second reading, he prepared a text which, from this point of view, is an excellent basis for making final decisions and is therefore constitutionally appropriate. The second reason on the basis of which the Committee acted in its decision-making is comparatively legal in nature, namely, what the Minister has already presented, the composition of bodies in comparable European Union countries. You will find a transparent procedure everywhere, a procedure that is accepted by constitutional law as transparent, and this is, of course, a appointment through democratically elected institutions. In the Slovenian case, we therefore rejected amendments which went in the opposite direction, because they followed what the German constitutional profession now rejects. In this regard, I would like to draw your attention in particular to the fact that there has been a situation where the current mode of appointment through the so-called civil society is to the full politicisation of television and the only country with something similar to the countries with a long-standing democratic tradition is Germany. But there it works differently because they have more public television and therefore do not pose such a big problem for them, if one television is, say, somewhere in the south right-centre, one in the north is completely red in its comments and choice of articles, because the choice of articles is, of course, essential for editorial intervention, because then these programs can be monitored everywhere in Germany and can, of course, be derived from different valuable points of reference composed and enlightened information and then people can actually define themselves. Thus it is satisfied and fulfilled with the constitutional purpose, this is a guarantee, which is also enshrined in the Slovenian Constitution, that every citizen and every citizen has the right to objective and comprehensive information. With this argument, of course, we decided on the committee to reject all those amendments that went in the opposite direction. In the public debate, there has been another valuable knowledge, namely that the current law is clearly contrary to the EU's requirements for transparency of business, the clear separation of the public service from market activities and that similar provisions, such as those currently in force Slovenian law, are subject to judicial proceedings before institutions or actions against certain countries before the institutions of the European Union, including Germany. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] From this point of view, in terms of transparency of business and clear separation of market activities from public service management, the new law, now at second reading, is excellently prepared. I suggest we adopt it unanimously.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Since the assembly held its first reading of this proposal at its 8th extraordinary meeting, it is not possible to present the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate and decision on the articles and amendments tabled, which will be guided by the review of the amendments of 15.6.2005. I think that everyone on the bench has a review of the amendments tabled to the complementary proposal of the law on RTV Slovenia - another treatment - so that we can start with what we do. We are moving on to the amendments tabled in Article 3. Article 3 has two. In the first indent of paragraph 1, the word "two" is replaced by the word "three". The second paragraph is deleted. The proposed amendment is the Social Democrats' Group of Members. In this amendment, which is substantively linked to the amendment to Article 4, under point 1, we will discuss together and also vote together. If this amendment is adopted, then the amendment under point 2 in the first part will be irrelevant. I'm starting a debate. Who would like a word on the amendments tabled to Article 3? Mr. Run, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u32	Thank you very much. With the proposed amendment, we would also like to ensure that, with regard to the third programme, which is intended to mean the transfer of meetings of the National Assembly, the Council of State and other activities, public broadcasting acts as an independent, autonomous and independent institution, that it also has in this area the right and the possibility of editorial policy, that it has the right and the possibility to assess when and how certain transfers are being carried out, that it has the right and the possibility to enter into a programme that ensures that listeners and listeners will even know what we are talking about on my parent's working body when I say, but now we are discussing paragraph 7 of this and this law, and not that there will be a living god who wants to hear what I am talking about, except me and my colleagues and my colleague on the committee, so to ensure this. As the text is written down, this autonomy and this right for the third radiotelevision programme Slovenia does not give. This is written in such a way that, mechanically, only from the meetings, the transfer of what is happening is carried out in a mandatory manner of everything that seems to be decided by the National Assembly. That's not a good solution. This is the only proposal we have with regard to Article 3 and 4. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mr. Yuri, Social Democrats, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u34	As a long-standing radio and television journalist, of course, I do not imagine how this programme should function in concrete terms without its attributes, from editorial policy to directing to complete autonomy, what you wrote in Article 2. Who should decide which session - because more things happen simultaneously in this house - will go into direct transmission and which session or event will go into the video, whether the video will be played in full or will be cleaned. If we don't have these attributes, there will be confusion. Such an article, such an arrangement provided for by the proposer, is not possible only if it is determined that someone will have a console either in the office of the Minister of Culture or a colleague of Grims in his office and he will decide which video will go and which public direct transmission will be made. We warn that this third national programme, not as a special programme, is introduced as a national programme, because it is necessary for voters and voters, viewers and viewers to monitor our work, but through the normal attributes of any programme. So I'd like you to support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u36	Thank you very much. I now think we are discussing both amendments to this article. With regard to the second amendment, I would like to say the following on behalf of our Group of Members. We have already worked very hard in the previous term as a coalition of Slovenia, together with the Slovenian Democratic Party, to reach this third programme and to bring about direct transfers of meetings of the National Assembly. Unfortunately, this proposal did not fully succeed. The national RTV, which we all pay, all citizens and citizens, have never actually shown this interest. It showed interest in transferring individual meeting points to the national assembly, but there was no transfer, as you might say today, in most Member States of the European Union. You're on your own very often, if I can, on German television I watch the Bundestag meeting. And I must say that this is, of course, something completely different than that here in our Parliament. There, the position and opposition are discussing each other, listening. These meetings are extremely dynamic, full-blooded, of course we such matters as we can see here in our National Assembly I did little to follow the meeting of the Finance Committee in preparing the budget rebalancing when certain Members talked about topics that were not at all about the amendment that actually wanted to invest in health, and then the Member discussed relations with Croatia. [[...]] And when the chairman took his word, another Member called to show up that article of the Rules of Procedure, which allows him to speak what he wants. Thus, the direct transfer will, of course, require us Members to be very careful about what we will say and how we will present our views and act as responsible behaviour. This Article, this second paragraph, is not exactly defined, but it is meant that this matter will be settled in such a way that citizens and citizens have a direct view of the work, in the first instance of the national assembly, and then of course of the more important meetings of the working bodies of the national assembly. Surely, though, it will not be possible to endure everything as one might imagine, for if two, three things are going on simultaneously, only one can be carried. There's something else I'd like to say. In this way, when citizens and citizens are primarily able to see the meetings of the National Assembly, this information will, of course, be something else that they can get today. I am, for example, very well informed every day about what is happening in the Liberal Democracy. In the first diary, the Odessa report to me what they're doing right, what's wrong, I think the rest of the parties aren't even nearly covered, regardless of what we're doing a little bit differently, so we don't start internal affairs and so on. But it's easy for me to say with one word, I'm getting on my nerves. I'm getting on my nerves like there's only one client in this country and all the reporters are dealing with this client. And such a way of direct transfer will, of course, give these options - because it may be funny, but perhaps it is also sad - and I think that such a direct transfer in many ways will allow this picture to become the right one, for example, not to be the one written by the responsible editor of Dela, who, in our protest, has published a picture of the finance minister three times in a row, in such a way that the finance minister shows a language. Each one of us sometimes finds himself in a situation, let's say that he moistens your lips and then the journalist paints it from the other side and then shows it as if you showed the language and the responsible editor of Dela, Mr Darjan Koshir, says that it is not his fault if the reality is such and that if the finance minister shows a language during the government meetings, then they have the right to present it to the public. In one of our protests, for example, the responsible editor of a serious newspaper is mocking and then responding. I think it is high time that we get direct transmissions, that our viewers and viewers can create their own opinion, not that they have the same opinion as certain irresponsible newspaper editors. This amendment, which somehow opposes this solution in the basic principle of law, will not be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr Bevk, Social Democrats, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u38	Thank you very much. Our parliamentary group wants New Slovenia to perhaps come to the media more than once for the same reasons. But it's more of a joke. Today, I have learned from the Minister that, in one of the previous mandates, this National Assembly has adopted a harmful law. I think that's a very strange claim. It may be a good marriage, it may be a bad marriage, but it seems to me that some marriage is harmful, but it seems to me a little strange comparison, because over all this legislative procedure, the legislative and legal service that we have entrusted to her so far in this national assembly is the rule of law. In addition, I was surprised at the statement by the chairman of the committee, because we, by voting on the home committee, authorised Mr Grims to present the position of the home committee, but we did not authorize him to present his own position, which was the content of most of his performance today. With regard to the amendment to Article 3, I will support the amendment of the Group of Members of the Social Democrats. I'd like to ask the Minister a question. In one of the many articles that talk about this law, we were also able to read in Del an article by journalist Poljana entitled "Television Program of Democratic Servants" in which it says that all the frequencies that this third parliamentary channel or programme would have had are already distributed and that these frequencies will have to be taken away from someone so that television can have its third parliamentary programme. In addition, I would also like to say that since September 1999, all meetings of the National Assembly have been transmitted directly via the Internet. We also presented this to members of this National Assembly six years ago at an interparliamentary conference, an interparliamentary conference on information technologies in Denmark. This was very well accepted because Slovenia was one of the first European countries to transmit the meeting directly via the Internet. We do not, however, object to having this third programme in our Group, but what a programme, and this is essential, how this programme will also be accompanied by the posts of journalists to regulate this third programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The word is "ma'am mag." Spending. Please. You're giving up. Thank you. Then Mr Barovic, Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u40	Thank you very much. We're talking about the amendment to Article 3. Clearly, this was expressed at the first reading that the Slovenian National Party supports the third programme and informing about our work. It is also clear to me when I read Article 3 of the RTV Act, the complementary proposal that I will not think about defining a specific programme. Given that I also have quite a few experiences, it is a very important word, which is also written "communication", because some people need to know that there are many journalistic types and that reporting or the very direct transmission is something other than later comments and other types of comments that exist. However, I would like to hear why, on the one hand, the applicant sees the difference if it says in paragraph 1 that the public service has two national television programmes and in paragraph 2 that it also has a special television programme. What is the danger that someone would see, in this case, is of great interest to me. Of course, I will also want to hear it from the other side, because as far as I know the organisational structure of Slovenia's television, if this is the third programme, will this be the third programme under the programmes. Already and so, because we have information editing on television, which deals with all the information broadcasts that are broadcast on the first and second, and possibly the third. I see no danger here because both paragraphs in Article 3 are very clear. The additional question I would have, however, is that the days when the national assembly does not work, or the working bodies, we work for individuals. I can read and read in Article 3, paragraph 2, that these days are intended, for example, to report on the international activities of the State, the recordings of certain meetings of the committees and so on. However, I have also heard that this programme is supposed to be an essential issue, including a commercial programme. However, from here on, the question of the eligibility or ineligibleness of the amendment to Article 3 or the ambiguity or clarity arises, since, in the second paragraph, no reference is made to any commercial activity in this public specific programme. I think that if we are already doing something, once again, the Slovenian National Party is for three programmes, it is for direct reporting. All that we do, and we will support such an article as it is, because this second part is clear to me, except for this question I would like to answer: What would be the danger, given that the applicant wants three programmes to be written in the first paragraph, then the second paragraph is completely irrelevant or could already be the fourth programme, or is it an explanation, or is it possible, but I do not see, hiding anything else? But I don't think so. And the question if this third programme is also intended for commercialisation, and this is a very important question, and even if it is regulated in the same way as in Article 3, which, as I say, is at this point completely clear to me, in the first and second paragraphs, this element of television commercialisation needs to be introduced into this second paragraph. That's what I'm trying to say right now, not that it's going to happen, no matter who it is. Even when the power changes, it'll still be this program, people will see what's going on, then maybe there'll be another picture, but we'll see. However, it is important this moment of commercialisation if we include it in the second paragraph, if it is not, we leave it, but I also do not want a commercial part to be introduced into this third programme in relation to the content of Article 3. Nevertheless, I will be happy to have my thoughts or answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr. Lucky Friend has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Of course, I would agree with what my colleague has said, and I would add to this the following aspect, which leads us to welcome this amendment. Public service by law also prescribes the status of special importance for local regional and student programmes and these are the factors most impoverished in the space because they do not receive any funding today. I am pleased that this way will also somehow enable us to enrich this place, where the media law already in force does not provide funds, and we know that all the amendments that have been written on the subject of an additional 3% are somehow marked as unconstitutional and inconsistent with the Constitution and have not been adopted. I would like to point out that already the legislator envisages a new media law, which will provide for some billion tolars for these organisations or for these RTV houses, more specifically for student regional television programmes that have a status of special importance. At the same time, I would like to point out that we can read that, under the current law in Article 149, we can already see that they have the possibility of using 300 million for infrastructure development and technical development, but only 100 million are available. If we look at the following section 162 of this same law, it allows in fact 400 million for programming topics and expansion in essence of technical capacity, and only 135 million for these houses. We can trust the government that the media law will provide for a new budget item that will be a difficult billion tolars, but we find it difficult to believe that there is a protector that these funds will also be released to these media houses that today provide the richness of regional reporting. I am pleased that this amendment essentially provides an opportunity to help these RTV institutions at the regional level in this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr. Grimes, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u44	Thank you for your word. Look, here I would say first that I welcome the decision of the United List that they, too, support this so-called parliamentary channel or now the Social Democrats. The only party who consistently opposed this was the LDS. It's probably about not wanting to see who has the arguments in their hands and who doesn't. It's about facing arguments. The only way to make enough room for this is through a parliamentary channel. Of course, the current text could arrange this in a way that is now possible after the second reading of the law in the same way as the amendment of the United Nations, but I think that the current regime is better due to the removal of one fear. You all know that when Mr White visited Slovenia, he said that he was doing so and speaking on the proposal of those who had communicated with him here from the Slovenian side. And that is why his words that bother them that this channel is so detailed in the law, because it does not give room to editorially judge RTV Slovenia about what it will cover and what it does not. This is quite contrary to the knowledge of the political profession referred to by Mr Ferfill in his book, when he speaks of the United States, when he says that as an essential quality it is considered that viewers and viewers can monitor their parliamentary channel without any filtering by editors. That's what it says, this desire to filter something out really exists in the background. Of course, it is a wish that something should be censored, for you know, Mr Ferfille also wrote something that is a notorious truth and which is, I think, also needs to be said why there is no transfer today, when the only possibility that people could face arguments for and against individual solutions in this law would be. For he also wrote the following knowledge of American political science. See, more than what the media report and how they report, what they do not report is important; so what they silence. And here's the silenced truth, and I'm talking about it today, I was talking about it at the beginning, although there was something bothering you and I'm going to talk about it, even though I'm aware that there's no transmission today, and there's a big question about which of these things the public will see. And in order to close this place down so that something could be removed from the public’s eyes, it was so precise that the rest of the law was laid down. However, with regard to everything else, as you have stated by the Social Democrats, I agree with you and here I think it is wrong to think that the current text prevents this. On the contrary, we live in a time of positive law, which is not prohibited, is, of course, permitted, and marriage must be read as a whole. This is said, too, this channel will have a certain editorial structure, it will have to have: whether it will be done by the editorial board of the information programme or by the special editorship of RTV Slovenia - this will have nothing to do with this national assembly. This is a matter of regulation in RTV Slovenia. That's what you're saying. All the fears you've been citing are superfluous. However, this office will not be able to decide whether or not it will tolerate anything. It will be incumbent upon the text now entered into the law to pass on everything. Thus, people will actually once have the opportunity to see all the arguments from all sides and then they will be able to make a real decision, because I want to end with a quote from the same group of foreign observers who warned in this room a few years ago if every information, comprehensive and enlightened, is not available to citizens and citizens at all times, then such a democracy is just a farce. The answer is a parliamentary channel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mrs. Potter, the Social Democrats, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u46	Thank you for your word. If the applicants’ willingness to implement the public television plan, as they continue to provide, would be expected to support our proposal by an amendment that does nothing but puts a third channel into public service. And our proposal to delete the second paragraph, which speaks very widely about the content of this programme, should also be linked to the amendment proposal to Article 4, which specifically discusses what the third programme will do and can also be answered by this explanation to my colleague Barovic, who mentioned the reporting. Social Democrats are not talking about reporting on the third channel, but that the third channel is intended for the direct transfer of meetings of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The amendment of the Social Democrats to Articles 3 and 4 merely ensures that what was previously stressed is that every citizen and citizen would have the opportunity to follow this programme, and this also applies to certain citizens and citizens with hearing or vision impairments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mrs. Barbara Tavš, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u48	Thank you so much for saying that. Well, as both of my interlocutors in the Group have already said, I am also joining the view that the amendment cannot actually be supported. In fact, if I follow the well-intentioned, I believe that Mr Grims' well-intentioned advice that marriage should be read in full, and if I follow it, it is said, first and second paragraphs of Article 3, then it is clear that we cannot really support this amendment. However, I would like to make one point, and I also ask the Minister for an explanation. In fact, the third programme already exists in such or otherwise form. There are also clear forms or sources of funding for the transfer of meetings of the National Assembly. It is certainly good that this programme will, in fact, be a constant for citizens and citizens, viewers and viewers to be able to monitor the meetings in full. On the other hand, I am interested, and as I have already said, I am asking the Minister to explain what funding is or will be, in what form, in what way and, of course, to what extent. I'd like to get an explanation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u49	Thank you very much. I'm guessing there's no more debaters. Therefore, we can move on to a decision on two Please, Mr Potsch. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u50	Thank you very much. On behalf of the parliamentary group, before deciding on Rule 73 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose a recess of 45 minutes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u51	I'm adjourning the session in 45 minutes. We'll resume the meeting at 12 o'clock.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u52	Dear Members and Members. We're moving on to the session. After my vacation, I ask Mr Ptræ, who previously requested this break if he wants the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u53	Thank you very much. The Group of the Social Democrats always wants to work in accordance with the rules and rules of procedure. As a result, in the first possible vote, she took the opportunity to consult on the situation that had arisen in the National Assembly on the basis of decisions not to interrupt the meeting of the National Assembly at that point and to continue once again. This issue was also the main theme of our dedication. As a result, we remain firmly convinced that it is unfair and contrary to the customs that prevail in this National Assembly, that a formal initiative taken by the President of the National Assembly is treated as some kind of notice or initiative, which means some disrespect to it, whatever its content, has been properly submitted in accordance with the procedure. And I think that according to the custom, the National Assembly should do the same: verify the appropriateness of the signatures, check the appropriateness of the content on the basis of possible requirements, but by then stop the decision on the law. Any decision on the law by the end of the second reading may evaluate the initiative put forward in a positive or negative sense to make it clear once again why you have invested it or vice versa, accept everything and make it materially inappropriate. That is why I think that the referendum, although we have always had serious concerns before the transitional legislative referendum. Only as long as we have it and who has been forcing it in the past would I not speak on this occasion, because we all remember it, but as long as it is, it must be done in such a way that - before the National Assembly decides on individual solutions - citizens and citizens have the opportunity to tell them what the content of the law they want. This is the content of the previous legislative referendum through various forms of issues. For this reason, Mr President, I ask that, in accordance with Rule 74 of the Rules of Procedure, you put to the vote our proposal that the debate and decision on the matter be postponed to one of the following meetings. Such a proposal can be made at any time and as many times as possible in the debate and we inform you that, in so far as the National Assembly is not prepared to follow this direction, we will not cooperate in the adoption of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u54	Thank you very much. I will put your proposal to the vote, Mr Potrč. Before that, any representative of each parliamentary group may give an opinion in the debate. If he wants to. Three minutes if he wants to. Please. Any of the representatives of any of the members of the Group would like a word? Yes, please, Mr Školč, on behalf of the LDS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u55	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. We will make such a proposal, logically, support. Last time I gave the same one a few hours ago. At the time of this complication, we have also examined all the situations that were also in the National Assembly in connection with the referendum decision and we have seen that all practice speaks for the benefit of such a proposal. Whatever the national assembly would have done without having previously cleared up these referendum issues, it would have done itself in some way in harm's way in the sense that it would have closed its doors to take into account the things the referendum initiative would have brought to bear, to the extent that it would have taken place, and to the extent that it would have been voted upon. I therefore predict that we will support this proposal. If he's not supported, I'll take another word for it and tell him how we're going to proceed.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Anyone else on behalf of the parliamentary groups? [[No, no, ……]] If not, then I am putting this proposal to a vote by Mr Purchast, it is said that we should stop the debate on this item and that this debate would continue at one of the next meetings. We're voting. I note that 65 Members and Members voted for 24 to 40. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 40.]] I note that the proposal has not been adopted. Procedural question, Mr. Skolč.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u57	Mr Vice President and also Mr President, sitting in our benches! I tell you, Members of Parliament and Members of the Liberal Democracy, we will not participate in any further decision on this law. We will not cooperate for a simple reason because we do not want to assist this great zeal of the coalition and obviously also the leadership of the National Assembly to continue to discuss and decide this law at all costs. The procedure has long been considered the queen of democracy. But the Democrats were considered to follow the procedure even when they are not, I will say, for the sake of hypnotism. Both items are now on a major test. From this point of view, I would like to tell you that it is appropriate to look at what is stated in Articles 3 and 90 of the Constitution. You will see that the people can have a legislative initiative with us. You'll see it's a referendum, I'll say, one of the forms that can legally regulate things. The National Assembly shall, when it comes to a referendum and this is referred to in Article 90 of the Constitution, be bound by the outcome of the referendum. Therefore, it is in some ways unacceptable that when such an initiative takes place, the National Assembly forces itself into a situation where it can gradually close its way. If we had taken those initiatives from Mr Sedmak and other signatories in this process, which I doubt, of course, because there was a lot of talk about, then this initiative would probably have died. If we voted against and these articles were closed, we would have major problems with the third stage. That is why, Mr President, I do not understand that, given that you are making certain decisions on your own, without a college, you will not see this. Last but not least, you were among those who spoke a lot, every time it came to referendum initiatives, that it was actually stronger than what the National Assembly could do. For the initiative bears the diametric solutions for the management and operation of a public institution, and I have no doubt that they will be adopted as proposed by the Minister and his adjutant. You may be able to endure for another second because this is a totally atypical situation when these customs are being violated, and you will, of course, be spared. Therefore, the National Assembly [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u58	Three minutes, Mr. Skull.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u59	I'm concluding. I know this is awkward to listen to, so the National Assembly should not be in a position to be Mr Kovacic, do not doubt that I know that I have exceeded this time now, and do not doubt that this is a minor breach than what is happening. [[...]] In short, we will leave this meeting and leave you responsible for the "rape of procedures".
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Mr. Pache, a procedural question? Procedural? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u61	Your Honors are here! I wanted the matter to calm down, or people in the hall would calm down before I started implementing so much that they would leave the premises. As a rule, within the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, we do not support the obstructions of the Liberal Democracy, especially on the basis of the behaviour which is usually the reason for their obstruction of the work of the National Assembly. But at this point, we think it is necessary, and especially when we are familiar with the parliamentary work in the past mandate, when you, the distinguished gentlemen of today's government, are in the opposition, that we should know precisely through this that the only way to work that can be done in this national assembly is through dialogue, of course. And that laws as important as these, or others, other laws that are less important should not be adopted without the participation of larger or smaller parliamentary groups, so from this place I appeal to you, Mr President, given that you have the right to suspend the meeting, to suspend the meeting at this point, to convene a college, to create a dialogue and to move on the normal path. That'll cost us all half an hour. Let's try to get this thing together behind closed doors or in front of the media, anyway, but let's take this step forward. We must not repeat the mistakes made by the previous government when it closed its ears and they did not care if the laws were passed with the support of several groups of Members or with the ignorance of certain groups of Members. Personally, I will be quite disappointed at the moment, if you do not agree to the proposal, you may also wish, however you wish, Slovenian national parties, because this would mean that you have learned nothing from the entire period of your opposition. Let's try to continue the dialogue, try to get on with the college. Please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u62	Thank you very much. I'll just answer that. He shall be responsible for the appointment of the College of the President of the National Assembly and shall be convened by the President of the National Assembly. When and if the President of the National Assembly convenes the College meeting, I will adjourn the meeting. Go ahead, Mr. Sok, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u63	Procedurally me. Honourable President, that we may clarify this dilemma as to whether we can continue to adopt this law in the second reading. I think I can. I propose a 15-minute recess and a college meeting at this time to answer this question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u64	Yes, please, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u65	I, too, believe that the proposal put forward by Mr Pece and Mr Sok is appropriate. For this reason, I propose that the meeting be suspended and that in fifteen minutes we may agree on a consultation with the leaders of the Group, how to proceed. I call for 15 minutes' consultation of the leaders of the parliamentary groups, now immediately in room 217. We can continue at half past one.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u66	Thank you very much. I'm adjourning the session.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u67	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! We're continuing our session. In doing so, I should like to inform you that we have discussed the complications and the issues at the consultation, but we have not found a unanimous solution to the possible interruption of the agenda. As we said at the consultation, the options for individual procedural proposals are open, which we will also vote on in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Barovich, you have a procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u68	Thank you, Mr. President. Regardless of who is and who is not present in this Chamber, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, I am once again making a procedural proposal to this National Assembly in order to reach a decision to discuss all the amendments and to decide on them later after, namely, the proposal and the decision of this National Assembly. Please put the Procedural Proposal of the Slovenian National Party to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u69	You heard the procedural proposal. In doing so, it would be supplemented by a business text to postpone the vote on the amendments to one of the following meetings. Is that what you thought, Mr. Barovich?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u70	Thank you for asking. Once again, I say that the decision on the amendments is made later. It's an exact diction. The business diction determines what it is. It can be, if I understand correctly, today's decision on all the amendments or on, I don't know, on Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or at an extraordinary meeting to convene or at a future meeting. This is not the content of a procedural proposal. The Procedural Proposal of the Slovenian National Party is based solely on the fact that we want such important matters to be discussed by most members of the National Assembly, who are all representatives of the elected people. If we decide one way or another together, at least we will have a clear conscience that we want the good of the Slovenes and the Slovenians by adopting good legislation.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u71	Nevertheless, Mr Barovic, I am sorry, Article 74 states that it is possible to postpone the decision to one of the next meetings. However, following the conclusion of the discussion of the amendments, the item may be terminated and continued at the same meeting later, but this is a completely different proposal. That is to say, if you propose this, you must propose that the vote on the amendments be postponed to one of the following meetings. This is what Rule 74 of the Rules of Procedure requires.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u72	Then let it be as established by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u73	You heard the proposal. The groups of Members may comment on the proposal. Mr Sok raised his hand on behalf of New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u74	Thank you. I'll repeat what I said in college. In procedural terms and business, of course, we do not gain anything by doing so. In any event, it will be necessary, as long as it is established that the initiative is submitted in accordance with the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative and if the signatories insist on doing so, to wait for the outcome of the referendum before the third hearing. And if the referendum is to confirm what the proponents are proposing, then this solution will have to be incorporated into the law in the third reading. This is how we gain nothing with this proposal and for this reason we will not support it in Novi Slovenija. Of course, we have been informed by the legislature that we can make other readings in the National Assembly today and that this is in no way contrary to the Rules of Procedure and the Law of Referendum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u75	Thank you. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u76	If the decision on amendments in the second reading is moved to one of the following meetings, such as a procedural proposal, it seems to us to be completely pointless to discuss individual amendments or individual articles of the law, so we will oppose such a proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u77	Thank you. Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u78	Thank you so much for saying that. We will not support this proposal in our Group of Members, either, because it saves nothing. It's basically the same thing as moving the whole point to one of the next meetings. I think that all the business and other conditions for dealing with this point are met, as presented in the text and with the reference to the agenda. And I propose that we continue this point as planned.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u79	Thank you. So we are passing through Yes, Mr Žnidaršič. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u80	Thank you very much. So, given that there is only a coalition in the Chamber, such a proposal will also be put to the vote. On the contrary, Mr Barovic's procedural proposal cannot be won. However, I must say that our Group regrets that we will deal with this law without the presence of all parliamentary parties, and in this regard we regret that this has happened. Our argument this instant, such as the occupation in this Chamber, is mainly the majority and less content. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u81	Thank you. We are therefore moving on to a vote on a procedural proposal. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 50 Members and Members present, with 3 votes against 43. [[3 votes in favour.]] [[Against 43.]] The proposal is not accepted. Therefore, we continue to follow the programme as it has already been set up. We are moving to a vote on the first amendment to Article 3. In doing so, I must remind you that the reference under point 2 of the footnote, which states, if this amendment is adopted, the amendment under point 2 is irrelevant in the first part. We must vote on the first and the second amendments. If both of you are to be adopted, then of course the article is inconsistent, but we must vote on both. We are moving to a vote on the first amendment, which is proposed by the Social Democrats. Anybody want to explain their voice? Mr. Barovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u82	On behalf of the Slovenian National Party, as I say, we have asked a logical and substantive question, the answer to it was half. In doing so, I stress that colleague Barbara Žgajner Tavš did not receive an answer from the Minister, which I do not know if it is possible to do business. And just because the answer wasn't perfect, I'm going to stand by myself in this article, even though it's clear to me and I've explained it.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u83	Thank you. Anybody else want to explain their voice? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving to a vote on the first amendment to Article 3. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present and he voted in favour of 1, against 42. [[He voted in favour.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to a vote on the second amendment to Article 3. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present, none of whom voted against 42. [[No one voted for it.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to the debate on the amendments to Article 4. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u84	Well, that's what a man would say now without defending himself. The contents of this amendment - this is a personal opinion, and I think that the opinion of colleagues and colleagues - would be appropriate if the amendment to Article 3 were adopted. However, in this case, as I say, irrespective of the material sometimes possible, it is impossible, because it would mean, at least after our understanding, that this third programme, whose content is precisely defined in the second paragraph of Article 3, would, in fact, take over all the contents of the first paragraph of Article 4. As a result, these matters are somewhat unclear. However, I would be pleased if, in view of the explanation, the author could also say a sentence in defence of the consistency of the proposed form of Article 4. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u85	Thank you, Mr. Barovich. Anyone else? There's no debate. We are therefore moving on to the vote on the first amendment tabled by the Group of Members of the Social Democrats. Anyone want an explanation? No, no, no. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 47 Members and Members present, who voted 2 to 45. [[The vote was 2.]] [[Against 45.]] The amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to a vote on the second amendment tabled by the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Group. Anybody want to explain their voice? No, no, no. We're voting. The vote is under way. There were 46 Members and Members present and no one voted against them, 46 votes against. [[No one voted in favour.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to the consideration and decision-making of the amendment to Article 13. Anybody want to talk? Nobody. We are moving to a vote on the amendment prepared by the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Anybody want to explain their voice? No, no, no. We're voting. The vote is under way. There were 48 Members and Members present and no one voted against them, 46 votes against. [[No one voted in favour.]] [[Against 46.]] The amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to the debate and vote on the amendment to Article 16 of the law. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Barovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u86	Thank you very much. I would ask nicely, to the authors - not the amendment, but the authors of the bill. There are things that are not clear to me; or the six new elements listed in Article 16 Yes, 16. [[...]] [[...]] I'm sorry, Mr. President. I missed it. I watched Article 15, I apologize. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u87	Article 15 is not open. Article 16(4) Anybody else want to discuss this? If not, I am putting to the vote an amendment to article 16, an amendment drafted by the Group of Members of the Social Democrats. We're voting. The vote is under way. There were 46 Members and Members present and no one voted against them, 44 votes against. [[No one voted in favour.]] [[Against 44.]] The amendment has not been accepted. This amendment was substantively linked to the amendment to Article 25(1), and therefore we will become an amendment to Article 25. We are moving to a vote on the second amendment to Article 16. The amendment was drafted by the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. This amendment is substantively linked to the amendment to Article 21, to Article 25, paragraph 2 and Article 47, and the amendment to Article 47 is therefore being discussed and voted together on the amendments to Articles 21 and 25. However, if this amendment is adopted, the amendment under point three is irrelevant. So we are voting on the second amendment drafted by the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. We're voting. The vote is under way. 49 Members and Members were present, and no one voted against 47. [[No one voted in favour.]] [[Against 47.]] The amendment has not been accepted. We are voting for the third amendment to Article 16 drawn up by the Group of Members of the Social Democrats. Mr. Barovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u88	Thank you very much. I found a red thread because it's going a little too fast. Here I would ask the authors, I am speaking a draft new law, which is under consideration - that is, not the author of the amendments - why would it be, in substance, wrong if I said, "reviewing the comments and proposals of civil society organisations and representatives", that is, addressing the comments and proposals of civil society, "which would be defined by the Programme Council" - what would be wrong if this paragraph were added. Because, as fast as I've flown, I can't find, unless, I've overlooked, civil society is mentioned, because we know that civil society can be a lot of things, and in this context, the institute is probably clear. What would be wrong if this paragraph were added to the proposal for the consideration and implementation of the adopted programming design? I don't see it in this - I can only see maybe one actually a little bit wider democratic view, unless there is, I don't know, any other reservation or if it's repeating itself in any of the indents because I could have missed something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u89	Thank you, Mr. Barovich. There are no representatives of the amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u90	I ask if those who cooperated and know much about the drafting of the new law can explain or say a sentence or two about what would happen or not to say anything. I just asked. Okay.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u91	Can you explain your voice? Mr. Grimes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u92	I have to say, I didn't report to the debate. But if I'm invited, there's only the following. This is, of course, already contained in the current provision, which is substantially broader. It is clear that every representative of civil society is included in the audience and viewers, listeners and listeners. He probably can't react and form his own opinion, so there's no problem. In short, the current text is quite appropriate. Additional indents would only mean duplication, but would not contribute to any greater quality of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u93	Thank you, Mr Grimes. Anybody else want to explain their voice? [[No, no, ……]] We move to a vote on the third amendment. We're voting. There are 49 Members and Members present, who voted 2 to 45. [[You voted for two.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a vote on the fourth amendment drafted by the Social Democrats' Group of Members. Anybody want to explain their voice? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. 49 Members and Members were present, no one voted against them 47. [[No one voted for it.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to the debate and vote on the new Article 16a, the amendment proposed by the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. This amendment introduces a new article, which is not contained in the amended proposal of the law, and is therefore irrelevant. We are moving on to the debate and vote on the amendments to Article 17 of the law. In doing so, I remind you that if the first amendment is adopted, the amendments under points 2 and 4 will become irrelevant. I am opening a debate on all the amendments to this Article. Here you go, Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Nevertheless, I would like to define this amendment to Article 17 proposed by the Liberal Democracy Club, because this amendment is also included in the announcement of the referendum issue. This is, therefore, a key dilemma in this law and it is obvious that this composition of the Programme Council will likely also become the subject of a referendum question. Therefore, I would like to point out at least one illogicality or systemic flaw. That is, when the proposer lists who are supposed to be members of the 23rd Programme Council, in one of the 5th indents, I think that this is the eighth indent, says "a cooperative relationship and a farming relationship". I must conclude that there is no such organisation in Slovenia in essence. This shows, of course, that the applicants have written something unknowingly or quickly, and that is why it is a shame that they are not present here today, so that we can discuss the matter with them. Apparently, the committee debate was a bit exhausting, but today they prefer to take a position of obstruction and leave. As far as I know, there is an organization within certain parties, I don't know about the People's Party is organized by the Agricultural Union in New Slovenia, too, I think that Slovenian Democratic, but here is the solution that the Association and the Agricultural Union will bring one representative into the programming world of radio or RTV. Of course, it would be better if the applicants copied the current situation and, of course, they suggested that one representative be proposed by the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber. This would then actually cover this area, as is currently proposed, but, of course, it is not possible to propose a representative to the RTV Programme Council on this line of the Association and the Agricultural Union. There may be other shortcomings, but I don't know anyone else, and I know you don't have a Relationship and a Farmer's Association. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u95	Thank you, Mr. Sok. Mr. Barovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Given that the 17th point is linked to, I think of today's application for a referendum question, we will leave this vote on these amendments with a colleague from the Slovenian National Party who is here. Well, we won't make any decisions. Just because they're related to the content that's related to, maybe, referendum issues.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u97	Thank you. Mr. Kangler.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u98	Thank you for your word. Dear Members and Members. It is important that I address this article, especially for this reason, because in the Slovenian People's Party, we also, together with DeSUS in the coalition, requested a slightly different content of this article, which we have today. But we found no real compromise in the coalition. The fact is that we have requested a slightly different image, although I would like to define myself to this amendment proposed by the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. I will explain my voice why this amendment is not acceptable to me personally as a point. Surely one of the reasons is the one mentioned by Ambassador Sok. Other reasons, however, are that when it is listed in point 5 of all these societies, associations and all others, who would have any chance of running for their members, it is clear that a witness in the programming world would actually be to take this human resources policy out of one centre. Our amendment and the proposal in coalition coordination with DeSUS, but it was just the opposite. We have proposed a coalition to appoint 12 members from the statistical regions of the Republic of Slovenia. After all, in the Slovenian People's Party, we are aware that this public institution must be all-Slovenian, and we do not want anyone and any other way to submit themselves to such or otherwise under their control. Once again, I would like to point out frankly that the amendment under point 4 is proposed by the Slovenian Social Democrats to appoint 16 members as President of the Republic of Slovenia. Personally, this proposal is not acceptable to me either. But it is not acceptable for this reason, because, after all, they give me another guarantee if we have not been successful in the coalition of amendments that we have in some way wanted to enforce on the territorial distribution of members of the programme world, after all my personal opinion is that in Primorsk, Koroška, Prekmurje, Dolenjska and Gorenjska we have people who are so educated and viewed that they can be members of the programme world. In fact, in some way in the coalition, we wrote that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia takes account of the appointment of members of the 7th indent of the Programme Council, including the regional representation of various parts of Slovenia. I am now asked on what principle, for example, of the 8 members who will be appointed by this National Assembly in the first term. And here in the first two years of eight and in the second two years of eight more. Eight will have a two-year term. Now, Comrade Grimes, you can wave to your president one way or another, but not to me, because this is a substantive and serious matter.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u99	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u100	But you are one of the proponents or co-creators of this law, and please, if you find it inappropriate to speak, then sit there in your parliamentary group, I know I have the right to say my opinion here. And in fact, it is one of the guarantees that Parliament is going to try in some way, even though it is not exactly defined in Article 17, in the last paragraph, on which principle these members of the Programme Council should choose, that we are so realistic and open that we are trying to ensure this with Members if this happens in the National Assembly and if this law is also enforced. I will personally support this Article, but I will not support the amendments tabled for this sole reason, because they also indicate that the centralisation of the programming board from one centre would certainly be too large. I also have to add here that I regret to accept that the largest coalition party has not accepted our proposal, which we have proposed in the Slovenian People's Party, so that two representatives of the TV Koper regional centre and the RTV Maribor regional centre will also be brought to the programme board of their representative. After all, if I focus on RTV Maribor. In my opinion, it is a collective, an institution, a business unit that should somehow have its own representative in the programming world because it is a business unit. Just like the TV Koper business unit. After all, I am sure and can already tell you that even the smallest possibilities and opportunities of employees from the regional centre of Kopra or the regional centre of Maribor in that the institution of employees can propose three, these individual candidates will not have the opportunity to be elected to the programme council within the collective. That is why our proposal, the proposal of the Slovenian People's Party, was the same as the proposal in the coalition. Once again, I regret that I accept this that Maribor will not receive his representative in this way. I hope that it will be obtained in this way, as stated in the last paragraph, that the National Assembly must also follow one of the criteria on regional representation of various parts of Slovenia. I hope that the Minister himself will take care of this, although I will not be able to directly influence it, but as a minister and as a coalition partner he will be able to influence the parliamentary group, the largest group of Members, and those members of Kviaz who will decide who and how they will propose to be admitted to the National Assembly. Now, personally, I am predicting to you that I will do my best and follow that this will happen. Otherwise, I say publicly here that I will not support such a proposal to elect a programme council in the National Assembly unless the last paragraph is taken into account, which says that the regional representation of various parts of Slovenia should also be taken into account in the selection of candidates, as far as the programme council is concerned, within the competence of the national assembly. I therefore stress once again that I will not support the amendments to Article 17 which have been tabled. I agree with this myself, and in some ways I can be satisfied that at least this dictatorship is mentioned in the last paragraph of Article 17, and I hope that we will respect this in further decisions in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u101	Thank you, Mr. Kangler. Anybody else want some? Mr. Znidarsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u102	Thank you very much. We will abstain from voting on this amendment because it is the content of the proposed referendum initiative, and we think it is time. On the other hand, it is not questionable to adopt an article as it is in law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u103	Thank you. Anyone else want to discuss the amendments to Article 17? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving to the vote. First on the first amendment prepared by the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. Once again, if this amendment is adopted, the amendments under points 2 and 4 shall become irrelevant. We're voting. The vote is under way. There were 47 Members and Members present, none of whom voted against 44. [[No one voted for it.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are voting on the second amendment prepared by the Group of Members of the Social Democrats. We're voting. The vote is under way. There were 47 Members and Members present, and no one voted against them, 44. [[No one voted in favour.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to the third amendment, also proposed by the Social Democrats' Group of Members. We're voting. There were 48 Members and Members present and no one voted against them, 46 votes against. [[No one voted in favour.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are voting on the fourth amendment, which was also proposed by the Social Democrats' Group of Members. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present; he voted in favour of 1 to 43. [[One member voted in favour.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to the debate and vote on the amendment to Article 21 of the Act, or forgive, which is irrelevant, and both amendments to Article 25 are irrelevant due to the voting results of the preceding Articles. We are moving on to the debate and the vote on the amendment to Article 29 of the law. Here you go, Mrs. Squire.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u104	Thank you very much again for your word. In fact, I will support the amendment under article 29. In fact, it is for 3% of the contribution to co-financing the programme content of local, regional, student and non-profit radio and television programmes with a status of special importance. Under the footnotes contained in the review of the amendments, it states that the amendment introduces into the article the content which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia at the meeting of the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport objected to, while at the same time it was established by a decision of the Constitutional Court as incompatible with the Constitution. Let me remind you that the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, at the initiative of the public institution RTV Slovenia, repealed part 82 of the media law and thus 3% of the co-financing under the RTV contribution. So it is true that the matter has already been regulated under the media law. If the matter were regulated under the RTV Act, so that the RTV Act would determine the financing or content of regional local importance, then the law on the media in labour, which refers to 3%, would not be constitutionally disputed, would it not? On the other hand, I ask the Minister once again, although I wanted an answer at the meeting of my mother's working body, given that the Constitutional Court also requires that the co-financing of local regional stations be arranged in a different way, in what way the Ministry will arrange co-financing, I will say, the content of local importance and, of course, also public interest. The Minister's response to the meeting was a non-self-serving force, so I am really afraid that what we have heard at the meeting today will once again take place, but not the content. On my question, how will this matter be dealt with in concrete terms, I quote: "How will the Ministry handle matters 3%, yes, as I have already said, we will introduce into the media law the possibility that programmes of particular importance where they are already mentioned to receive certain funds from the state budget."
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u105	Thank you. Mr. Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u106	I would ask my colleagues and colleagues to consider this amendment and to support it. See, another fundamental question, those who worked at such and similar stations, because if you start looking for me now, you know that we have a number of television and radio stations at local and regional level, which have the status of non-commercial and commercial radio stations and are conditioned. If competent state inspectorates or audit authorities were to look very closely for what these local and regional radio stations, which are formally non-commercial, would be able to shut down everything. Let's be honest with each other. None of these, according to the standards of so-called non-commercial, local, regional television and radio stations, can exist without a high commercial contribution. And they're looking for him and they're fighting for him. But you must understand that in our beautiful, but on the surface small, Slovenia is not enough this moment to help local and regional stations with its financial, commercial contributions. And they're in danger of collapse. If any of you thought they were already in danger of collapse, then what? No, it's not. We are the ones who are joining today, at least here, we are fighting for the third information program of the public agency RTV. So we want more. The more they give and enable local and regional radio stations. And they're trying and helping to inform villages, places where many people don't see any other or many still don't even see the first national television program. And they are also in this Slovenia, who do not see, hearing neither the first or the second radio program. However, local and regional institutions are the ones that give these people information that cheers them up. And last but not least, those who have sat on the Committee on Finance for several hours in dealing with the budget rebalancing can, with certainty, with all the billions that we've talked about and tried to push left and right, the Minister probably already knows if not, but they will calculate it, that 3% for local and regional televisions, the radio station would not be a big financial burden. And a second time. Not least, they also perform the public function of this small local and regional stations, in fact they do and certainly would help them with their independent, I speak independent, informative work, if they were told, "Yes, 3%." Imagine this, because otherwise you will deny yourself in all the requirements contained in certain articles of this new proposal of the RTV Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u107	Thank you, Mr. Barovich. Mr. Pece, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u108	Your Honors are here! I regret, of course, that today's debate on how much more important legal matter was not prepared to be attended by representatives of the Liberal Democracy Club and representatives of the United Nations Group of Members. I have been, at least personally, an advocate of dialogue and always an advocate of a solution based on different opinions, so that we all contribute to better law-making. Unfortunately, this is how the majority opinion, which is here today, and the opinion of the Slovenian National Party, which wants only one: this is a company that will build on quality information. The transfer of information at the lower levels was discussed by colleague Barovic and colleague Žgajner. I would like to emphasise another element that we are trying to include in the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, in the part where it speaks of the status of special importance for certain media. We're also trying to fix this dimension with an amendment. It is likely that all present today and all those who accompany us through speakers, i.e. members of the LDS and the United List, or the Social Democrats, are aware of the dilemmas or shortcomings of achieving special importance status in accordance with the provisions of the Media Law. Many people, representatives of various media, whether television or radio, have turned to the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members, who have told us about eligibility on the one hand and, on the other hand, about the ineligibleness of the amendment, if this will favour those who have obtained status in the previous term or can be said in the past regime, compared to those media which, politically speaking, could not obtain this status. The implementation of the amendment, as proposed by us or as summarized by the United List of Social Democrats, would also help to finally resolve the dilemmas about the status, status of individual media, once again, whether television or radio, which is of particular importance under the media law. According to our assessment, the adoption of this amendment would not only contribute to the content provided by a fellow Member of the Slovenian National Party, but would ultimately resolve once and for all the situation of becoming a special public interest. According to our assessment, this is more than an important matter, more than the content of the public service. In particular, we owe, as legislators, to citizens and citizens, both at the local level and at the state level, to provide quality and, above all, objective information. In many cases - and I do not want to criticize national television now - from national television, especially local televisions that cover a specific feature, create that quality and real picture, in other words, the information that is essential for our country's objective vision. And it is precisely from the need for an objective vision of our country that this amendment should be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u109	Thank you, Mr. Pechet. Mr. Prevc.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u110	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Members of the Slovenian People's Party will not support this amendment, although, as in the national party, we have submitted an amendment with similar content at the meeting of the national working body. We certainly have opinions, as my predecessors have said before, that the situation of these local and regional and student radio and television stations must be resolved in some way. In fact, they need to be provided with some ongoing funding, as the fact is that these stations are also a very important contribution to public broadcasting. We have received an answer, which, however, satisfied us on this working body by the Minister, that this issue will be resolved in the media law with a special fund. We will continue to follow this very closely when this law is passed, and we will cooperate to see that this solution is indeed indicated in here. We have also received the response of the legislative and legal service on this labour force, that such an amendment is constitutionally controversial and that is why we have withdrawn the amendment. Last but not least, the Minister also replied on this issue to this working body that the Ministry of Culture would speed up the return to local and regional radio stations of the money that public broadcasting owes them. This is the money that came from the introduction of this law in 2001 and from the decision of the Constitutional Court. We've also received a yes to that. However, we also agree in the Slovenian People's Party that, in the face of this issue, as with the principles already before me, it is a matter for colleagues from a national party to briefly explain here in the National Assembly how this issue will be resolved and how the financing of local and regional radio and television stations, with a status of special importance, will be resolved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u111	Thank you, Mr. Prevec. Mr. Peche.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u112	Your Honors are here! Hands on your heart, but I really can't understand the representatives of the Slovenian People's Party, given that you have still advocated the same solution on your mother's labour body as we have offered in the Slovenian National Party and as we advocate today. But understanding particularly changing attitudes is probably rare. I just don't have the virtue to understand a position that changes from day to day. It'll probably get me warm in the head sometime. I would like to touch in particular the opinion or position of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. Before the decision of the Constitutional Court was reached, the speech was that the mentioned 3% of co-financing under RTV was unacceptable under the media law. Later at the meeting of the parent working body, I quote, Minister Vasko Simoniti said or announced the possibility of funding, three per cent, for the other media, in the media law. As part of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, we are convinced that if we want to ensure implementation or respect the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, to which we sometimes attribute an important role, hand to heart, and secondly, a smaller role, it would be reasonable to accept the content mentioned under the RTV Act. This would, according to our assessment, meet the criteria laid down in the Constitutional Court's decision to pursue the objective of whose witness, in other words, we have been in the position of the Slovenian Party's parliamentary group and which we are witnessing in the context of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u113	Thank you, Mr. Pechet. Mr. Sok has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u114	Thank you very much. I think that this debate may look very much like it if we support local media, which is right, but in all this debate we need to be aware of what a public institution is and what local media are, but not public institutions. And I am surprised that this amendment has actually been tabled by the United List, but Mr Potrč always points out how the decisions of the Constitutional Court should be respected. By introducing this amendment, however, it has in fact shown that the same party, when it is necessary to be populist, is not prepared to respect the decisions of the Constitutional Court. The decision of the Constitutional Court is crystal clear in this case. We have a decision and you still advocate that 3% of RTV subscribe to finance local media, which is completely irrelevant. This would only allow the Constitutional Court to make the same decision once again. Maybe 3% seems small, but it's not that small. Figure out how much money that is. Whether those who pay public RTV agree that they will also finance commercial local media with 3%. However, in this law, in order to assist local media, one of the decisions taken in Article 13 when the actual broadcasting of radio or television programmes with the status of local, regional, student and non-profit radio or television programmes is provided through RTV Slovenia as a public service is said to be made available free of charge for these purposes. That's one thing. I think this is a big step in helping local media. The other issue is the one we discussed and will be implemented in accordance with the media pluralisation fund, where these local media will have the opportunity to run for certain funds on call with their programmes and content. This will, of course, enable those local media that actually disseminate appropriate regional content to obtain certain funds from this fund. We talked a lot when we coordinated this law and concluded it. It is not possible to go through a decision of the Constitutional Court and, in fact, the applicants should be aware of that. Thus, once again, a completely unnecessary debate has been opened, which, according to our assessment, is irrelevant by a decision of the Constitutional Court. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u115	Thank you, Mr. Sok. Mr. President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Otherwise, I had previously applied for a replica of the implementation of Mr Pečet, who said that the Slovenian People's Party's Group has the right to adapt. I argue that in democracy, coordination of views is a virtue and, of course, also given that colleague Sok, when he explained these three percent and looked at us in this way, I think we reconciled these matters during the debate, during the drafting of this law and we no longer object to it. Our colleague Prevc simply suggested that, in view of all the interviews that the Minister had discussed how these matters would be resolved under other laws, because they could not be resolved in this law. We have learned this and remain in this quality of coordination. Sometimes, I agree with you, Mr Pece, there is also a need for adjustment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u117	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Janc.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u118	It's a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u119	Replica, excuse me, Mr. Janc. Mr. Pece has a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u120	Thank you. A little joke, a little for real. I believe that the virtue of the Slovenian People's Party is adapting, adapting to the electoral period. I've heard it a few times, or I've witnessed that you've changed several times in the election campaign. But of course this is your right and the possibility of, of course, programme implementation. But I would like to say, because one of the speakers before me said that we are needlessly opening a debate, this is Mr Sok. Listen, today you have just achieved that two groups of Members, which cannot be proud of the National Assembly, have left the Assembly room of the National Assembly and do not want to participate in the debate. Of course, what is not in their defence is, in my opinion, shameful for a serious group of Members. According to my assessment, this is of course worth all the criticisms, both at the expense of the LDS and at the expense of the United List. But there is no way I can go past your verbal relationship that we have unnecessarily opened the question of financing or co-financing certain media. According to our assessment, therefore, the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group estimates that it would make sense to extend this debate further, given that it has had a major public debate, and you are trying to narrow it down today within the legislative branch of the Authority to the minimum of the Members present and to the minimum of the debates considered through the time limit. Given that I do not intend to, of course, not to be called upon to advertise further around this amendment, I would just like to stress once again the very important theory or very important fact that we are today adopting a law on Radiotelevision of Slovenia and not a law on media. And the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia is the content proposed under the amendment, which was subsequently summarized by the United List of Social Democrats, to be included on the basis of the instructions of the Constitutional Court in the relevant law, so it is inappropriate to say that the amendment is unconstitutional because it is not true. Allow me to read only one sentence after the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, at the initiative of the Public Institute of RTV Slovenia, has repealed Article 82 of the Media Act - the Media Act, and not the Radio Television Act of Slovenia, which we are considering today, we are not considering the media law, thus canceling 3% of the co-financing under the RTV contribution. With the proposed amendment or otherwise, we are implementing the Constitutional Court's decision with the proposed amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u121	Thank you, Mr. Pechet. Mr. Sok, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u122	If I continue right here, my colleague Peca, today we are enacting the law on RTV Slovenia. And that's it. This amendment, however, discusses local and regional media. So, in this law on RTV Slovenia, what you correctly identify, is trying to add something that is not a matter of this law. For this reason, I have said that we are talking about this needlessly today. Otherwise, I agree with you, and we probably didn't understand that there was a need to talk about co-financing of local, regional media. That is why I also spoke of this issue being resolved under another law, through the pluralisation fund. And to finish it. I regret, too, that the two parliamentary groups are obstructing this debate. Clearly, it is one of the rights and no one can oppose it. They took advantage of this institution of parliamentary democracy. While the debate on the Committee has, of course, gone in a different direction, I would say, a lot of delays and unnecessary insistence and interpretation of certain legislative proposals and lay down definitions. It is obvious that in some areas we cannot identify ourselves, and that is the result. Instead of dialogue and discussion, it is also possible to predict obstruction and, unfortunately, no one in the National Assembly could prevent it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u123	Thank you, Mr. Sok. Mr Janc is the next to be tabled for discussion.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Good-bye! I have to tell my colleagues from the national party that likeness is one nice thing, but populism is also, today it's, tomorrow it's, like, one like that, another like that. In short, what you're discussing is entirely your business, and I think you have a lot of space ahead of you, and it didn't get that small. So leave the Slovenian People's Party alone, it will solve its problems in one way or another. That we proposed this in the coalition, this 3%, is clear for simple reasons. It is also clear from the statements of the Minister and Lawyers that this matter does not belong to this story of RTV. After a longer debate, which was very constructive and on-the-spot, we received satisfactory answers on this matter, that this does not belong here, which we were satisfied with and we have simply withdrawn from the law with understanding, which we have also agreed on in the coalition. Of course, in the light of the fact that the Minister was clearly assured when this story about RTV is concluded, adopted, the Ministry immediately actively tackles the media law and there through the fund solves this matter, because I think it is both in the coalition and in general - I see today that, even in the opposition - a great membership of local and regional media. I also believe that this story must be resolved by the Constitutional Court in such a way that it will also be adequately resolved for those local and regional media, which are of quality, which have an information programme and which, in my opinion, carry out an important information mission at the local and regional level. Perhaps most Members see this as positive. That there have been speculations here and there in the past, it's probably true. It is therefore necessary to lay down such criteria in this Media Act that those media that have a good information programme that they want, who want, who can also get extra money for these things, because they themselves will not be able to survive in the market today with the work they are doing, so that they can have a good, good-quality local and regional programme. And this is what the Minister assured me, and which I was also at one of these negotiations, it seemed right that this story would be solved. I believe that the coalition, together with the Minister, will also bring this story to the benefit of local regional media. This I think is a key message that this matter will finally be resolved once, and we must respect the Constitutional Court's decision as it is. In this way, we may come up with this final solution in very short time for regional and local media, such and different ones, which are once again confirmed, of exceptional importance in the Slovenian space for those areas where national radio or television do not even reach the area where life in one region such as Posavije, where I come from, is very much covered by regional programmes. I believe that this will happen in the media law, that finally this story, we have so much debate about today's amendment in this national assembly, which is nothing wrong, because this is where the debate is going to take place, and we will finally seal this story. If the previous government failed and the previous coalition failed, it could, but probably this coalition will succeed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u125	Thank you, Mr. Janz. Mr Barovic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u126	Thank you. Look, we've heard an explanation that they're being paid or that local and regional radio and television stations are being rewarded by broadcasting frequencies and transmitters. And days ago, we passed a law assessing that compensation in that case was chained, destroying financial discipline. That's the first point. Another time. I've heard countless promises about how local and radio stations will get. They got shit, that's pretty much it. And the third time. Ladies and gentlemen! Thank God that the Committee on the European Union is, look at the 29th and 27th protocols, which clearly state that the provisions of the Constitution, which means not only at the European level, but also at the state level, because we are also a country, a European country, one. The provisions of the Constitution do not affect the competence of Member States to finance public broadcasting services. If you are so European, you must understand, because we are Europe. The Constitution of Europe does not, as it does not stipulate, now pronounce on the Constitution, and that is not true of what you say and deceive the public. If so, you wanted Europe, look at the European Constitution once, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u127	Thank you, Mr. Barovich. Mr. Battelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u128	Dear colleagues, whether they do not understand or do not want to understand that the financing of these stations cannot be made through the subscription institute. This makes sense and also the meaning of the Constitutional Court decision, whether it is in the media law or in the RTV law. That's what this is about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u129	Thank you, Mr. Battelli. And Mr. Secretary. Is it a replica? Mr. Secretary, would you like another one first? Yes, there you go. Mrs. Zginer Tavsh.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u130	I would just like to add one more thing, and I hope that I will really get the answer to my question raised by the Minister. I am afraid, at least as far as we know about this so-called media pluralisation fund or media facility, that this will be just another step further towards the political control of the media now at the local level. Now I will remind again of the story of the 1990s, when it was within a similar media fund that the formation of the company or newspaper Slovenec was established or co-financed, and the company Snaga was introduced in this story and the Ljubljanaians and Ljubljanaians were injured or the Snagina service payers.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u131	Thank you. Mr. Peche.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u132	Dearly beloved, since we only have two minutes left, this is my final announcement. In my opinion, in my firm belief, there is a false identification between the Members who are still present in the parliamentary debate, hence the linkage of the status of special importance to television, which has the status of a special name with the equation of commercial television, so, of course, in the possible equation, it is not an equation. We must be aware that televisions which have gained special status are not commercial in this work and that it is through this status that they need to provide a share that citizens, regardless of whether the amendment will be adopted, pay equally, so the amendment has no impact on the level of the contribution, that is the first thing we need to know. Secondly, what we need to know is that television and, of course, radios and all those belonging to this category, which are of special public importance, do not compare in this part with commercial televisions or media. However, I would like to say that, so far, in regular calls, this type of funding has been earmarked for a total of extremely little money, 130 million Slovenian tolars. At 130 million Slovenian tolars, more than 300 producers registered in the last year alone. How can we expect an objective picture to be a television or media report if you multiply or divide one amount by another? The purpose of the amendment of the Slovenian National Party is solely in the basic point, which we have stated, of quality and information especially for those mentioned in the explanation of the proposed amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u133	Anyone else want to discuss this before I give my word to the Minister? [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Secretary, you have the floor. Then we go to the vote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u134	Thank you very much, Mr. President. There was a lot of debate about these 3%, a lot of talk. The Member said that there would be political influence again, but it must be said that these programmes do not finance the company, but also the programme content. As for the possibility that this would come into RTV law, here's the thing. The Constitutional Court did not impose on the legislator, but allowed him the possibility that the financing of the programme of particular importance should be different, it merely required that this solution should be constitutionally consistent if it came to it. Such a solution, as you have heard, is being prepared by the Ministry of Culture in the media law. How's that gonna work out? It is intended to take place in such a way that the programmes are of particular importance, i.e. for these regional, local and student RTVs, a precise percentage of how much these programmes would automatically receive in these funds. In addition, RTV houses, i.e. student, local and regional, could compete in the rest. I would like to point out that after the structure now seen, how these televisions and radios are distributed, I must say that they are very, very much, as I would say, directed towards northeast Slovenia, while there is no other way. It will also be necessary to arrange that the whole of Slovenia will actually be covered and that all regions will in fact be represented. If the legislator wanted to solve the problem of the law on RTV, he should, thus following from the reasoning of the Constitutional Court, agree with the public authority itself, so should the RTV. Without the opinion of RTV, these 3% could not have been obtained if RTV found that this would actually reflect on their programme in order to go beyond their programme. Such solutions cannot therefore be proposed. In addition, I would like to add this if the new RTV bill had decided that the programmes with this status, which we are talking about, were financed from a source of public service funding in the field of radio and television activities and thus became public service organisations, should also be regulated in terms of public involvement in the management bodies, so they should be given the same bodies as RTV. You should enter these companies, you would say, private, public in the broadest sense of the word and form sacred and similar bodies. Therefore, this is practically not possible in such a form. We are looking for a solution, and this is what we have talked about and coordinated to actually come into section 4 of the Media Act, where this will also be regulated.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u135	Thank you, Minister. Mrs. Žgeiner Tavš, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u136	Thank you very much. I'll point out two things again. At the outset, the Minister said that I must be aware that it was not about financing companies, but that it was about financing programming content. And I would like to point out here that it is precisely the funding of programming content that is controversial. It is important to be aware of what information means today and what political manipulation of information means. But once again, Mr. Minister, you have mentioned that you will settle the matter within the framework of the media law. Once again on this site, given that I have not received a concrete response from your parent body, in what way, I am also interested in percentage or how you will manage the co-financing of local, regional content under Article 4 of the Media Act. Thank you and I'm asking for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u137	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, would you like to see him? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u138	This will be regulated in Article 4 by the creation of a media fund, where a percentage will be set for the media under this fund, we talked about 40%, in fact, it is still necessary to harmonise the media of this nature, i.e. programmes of particular importance or regional, local or student radios.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u139	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? We are moving to a vote on the amendment to Article 29. The amendment was proposed by the Social Democrats' Group of Members. Mr. Barovich, then Mr. Pece.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u140	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Members, I will explain our vote. Look, not just because I worked on a cultural committee for four years in the previous term, but because the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport was a joint committee and I co-formed the media law and listened to stories and fairy tales and the same words I heard from other people today. Not only because you can't convince me of any unconstitutionality, because I'm just the most sacred thing to you, it's at the top, it's the 27th protocol that says the constitution has nothing to do with it. I don't understand that you don't understand that television and radio, local, regional and student, is one segment in the media world. The media is huge. And don't tell me that Section 4 of the Media Act will regulate the financing of local, student and regional radio and television stations. Yes, it will. 100,000 tolars will be given, if that's the case. When you see when the internet starts to finance itself, because it's also a medium when newspapers start to form, finance and so on. Nothing's gonna happen. Nothing. What if we start changing the media law? When will it be changed? And I am sure that it is feasible and is acceptable and, above all, a substantive court that this is precisely what 3% of this law provides for a segment that belongs to the public institution of RTV. Why does he judge? Because they're connected all the time because I worked on one of those media for 30 years. And this medium as a baby was tied up and still as a baby tied to the mother's breast, it's still tied to the public institute of RTV. Still. All those media. There were 10 of us at the time 30 years ago, today there are 70. They're all tied up in one way or another. Take one of their bonds, and you'll see that it won't work anymore, because it's still tied. If this link is substantive, there is a technical existence not to say that there is no funding in this connection. That's the stupidest thing we can hear. So I will absolutely support this amendment, whether it's written below the SD or, I don't know, whatever it is, I will absolutely, because this is the only way I believe after 30 years that these institutions will get what they, at least for some, I'm sure they're doing.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u141	Thank you. Mr. Pece, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u142	Your Honor! There are several reasons for the adoption of this amendment. According to our assessment, adoption, for the first time, would lead to respect for the status that some local media may have been having a hard time adjusting their programme to cover those programmes or those of a non-commercial nature. Based on this, the second argument is that no commercials should be subjected to the whole content of a particular program or a software scheme of a particular medium. Thirdly, it should be estimated that my own, almost the most important, is respect for the Constitutional Court's decision. The decisions of the Constitutional Court are precisely saying that such financing is inappropriate under the media law, and that is why, within the framework of the Slovenian National Party and later, summarizing it within the framework of the United Charter, we are not able to say that the amendment we are advocating by the Members of the Slovenian National Party is unconstitutional because it is not. What is very important in this regard, and unfortunately the Minister always forgets, is the time limit set by the Constitutional Court, to which matter must be defined in law. The deadline was September 2004. And if we look today when we are in 2005, we see that we are late, which is why the solution that is in hand is already too late, given the Minister's speech or closing speech, it turns out that he does not even know the level of that fund, that he does not know the operation of that fund, or the content of that fund that is supposed to share such funds. Furthermore, it advocates the theory that politics can have an impact on programme content. But that's not exactly what we should set out in the media law. This is exactly what we need to fight so that policy has an impact on programme content. The program content must be a reflection of objectivity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u143	Thank you, Mr. Pechet. Is there any other explanation for the voice? We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present, 6 votes against 46. [[The vote was 6.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to Article 43, where we find that the amendment to this article introduces new content into the line article and is therefore irrelevant. We move on to Article 47 and note that this amendment amends an unopened article and is therefore irrelevant. I note that none of the proposed amendments have been adopted. This concludes the second reading of the Radiotelevision Act of Slovenia. The assembly will carry out a third examination of the draft law once business and legal possibilities for such treatment have been provided. I am adjourning the 7th session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. At this time, I inform you that, in accordance with the reference to the extraordinary meeting, we will start an extraordinary meeting at 2.35 p.m. Thank you.
