ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, ministers, fellow Members and Members of Parliament! Since we have a very busy schedule on the last day of the June session, I propose that we start and continue the 7th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia despite the benevolent participation. I am informed that they are detained and that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: only Bevk from 3 p.m. onwards, Aleš Gulič, Kristian Janc, Drago Koren, Breda Pecan, Villa Rezman, mag. Anton Rop, Majda Shirca and Martin Mikolitch. I also inform you that today's vote will be on points 1, 9 and 10 immediately after the 10th. We are moving on to the interrupted 1st item of the agenda - remember, we interrupted it last Monday - questions from Members and Members. At Monday's meeting on 13 June, the Prime Minister of the Government answered the first three questions raised by members of the opposition and the Member of the ruling coalition's questions. Then he's the Minister of Health, mag. In accordance with Rule 247 of the Rules of Procedure, Andrej Bručan replied to the question raised by Dr. Matej Lahovnik at the 6th meeting. With regard to the announcement of the questions sent, you are informed that I have withdrawn the second question myself to the Minister of Transport and have lodged it in writing. Mr Gulič withdrew both questions, both to the Minister of Finance and to the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs. On this point, the following ministers, or two ministers and the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Dr Dimitrij Rupel, Minister of Justice, Dr Lovro Šturm and Minister of Agriculture, Mrs Marija Lukačič, apologized for today. In view of the established practice, the Minister of Health will continue to answer the unanswered questions raised by the 6th meeting of the Assembly, the first to be raised by the mag. Majda Potrat in relation to breast cancer prevention activities, and the other by Mrs Marija Possonec in relation to the reorganisation of health care and the problem of lack of doctors. Mr. Secretary, your word. The first question asked by the mag. Spending.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u2	Good-bye, everybody! The question is regarding early detection and treatment of breast cancer. Perhaps I would begin in response to the conclusion that breast cancer is one of the most common cancers in women in Slovenia and in most countries of the European Community. In Slovenia, we started transplanting so-called opportunio cancer transplants years ago. The change in the current so-called opportunistic mode of transplantation has been organised, in an expert and organisational sense, a rather difficult operation and has, in fact, not yet fully recovered and developed. Reduction in the number of late-stage breast cancers detected, depending on the quality of transplantation and at all levels and coordinated action among all participants. Therefore, it is essential that we do the renovations on a planned and integrated basis. I must say that the goals we set ourselves this year, among others, and one of these 10 of our health goals, are to plan early detection of breast cancer. It is imperative that I say that some of the activities have been carried out so far. The rules on conditions to be met by primary breast centres have been adopted. Second. A unit has already been established at the Oncology Institute to coordinate early detection activities and control the quality of transplantation across the country. Third. A working group for the restructuring of current pulmonary outpatients for breast disease has been appointed to the primary centres for breast disease. I think this is a very important step for the future. These will carry out systematic screening with preventive mammography once every two years in all women between 50 and 69 years of age. Women who belong to the endangered group will do preventive mammography earlier, that is to say from 40 years of age. Primary centres will also be directly linked to secondary centres, which will serve more to control quality and control the quality of primary centres and to carry out further, more complicated diagnostic procedures. A multi-disciplinary team is currently being held at the Oncology Institute. However, we are aware that this is not the case in all hospitals in Slovenia where patients are treated with this diagnosis. Therefore, unifying doctrine and achieving quality standards in this area is also one of the important tasks that the College of Experts, and of course we, in particular, have before it. By the end of this year, this is the end of 2005, we are planning to launch a pilot project on organised systematic transplantation in other regions, which will be the basis for the organisation of transplantation across the country. Throughout this pilot project, so-called opportunistic transplantation will continue, which means screening of early-stage cancer patients without systematic treatment as required in this organised part of the research. This described transplantation system, as we are developing it, follows fully the professional guidelines and the content of the European Parliament resolution. Our goal is to allow all women, regardless of their social status and place of residence, occupation, education and so on, access to high-quality transplantation and, in the case of diagnosed cancer, to quality treatment. We need to know that these transplant tests represent an increased number of detected patients and therefore an increased chance of further treatment. One of these goals, as I have already said, is our goal of early detection of cancer in women.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mrs. Ambassador, are you satisfied with the answer? Would you like to complete the question?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u4	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Thank you, too, Dr. Bručan, for the answer you've given me so far. I asked the question, as you know, because 51 percent of all breast cancer treatments were started when the disease had already grown. Data on the five-year survival of patients with this diagnosis are also worse for Slovenia than for the European average. The resolution on the National Programme for Equal Opportunities for Women and Men 2005-2013 also mentions specific measures to improve women's reproductive health, where breast and cervical cancer are among the most common diseases. I would now like to ask another question, which is also related to the European Social Charter, which guarantees every citizen and every citizen the right to health protection, and this right regardless of whether it is linked to public or private health organisations. And this is where the second part of my question begins. Your frequent statement that the privatisation of health care is inevitable has led me to ask you how to deal with these cases, where women’s reproductive health diseases are the subject of a very large amount of donor funding for the purchase of either moms or other appliances; when the profession also notes that private health institutions may have better equipment, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] They do not do so much for the development of the profession, so let me ask you another question: [[...]] Are you planning to do some analysis at the Ministry of Health on where all the benefits offered by private health care are from public health and how you will deal with the privatisation of these apparatus that have been purchased? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u5	Time's up, please. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u6	from donor funds or research money? [[...]] Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u7	Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u8	Thank you for the question, an additional question. Now, of course, I would say that in my first answer, I have already partly answered the first part of today's second additional question. We have always given importance to this diagnosis at the Ministry, since I am in the Ministry, and the result is also, of course, that this activity came among the ten main objectives of our ministry in 2005. As far as private and public health is concerned, of course, my statements are often repugnant, so I must say that today's meeting on privatisation yesterday was not at all like this. We talked mainly about the fact that primary primary health care will eventually or earlier actually be in private hands, but not in private, but in private hands with public money. Thus, these statements are largely exaggerated, and it has never been said that it will be tomorrow. The procedure, procedure in Slovenia or method of transition from state to private public health will be gradual and dependent on the situation. In any case, I have always argued that the same situation will be achieved, as in most European countries, those countries that were previously in the so-called Western Europe and all those countries that have now come into the European Union from the former Eastern Europe. Nowhere is there any system like this anymore, 30% of private public health, 70% of public health, which makes us extremely difficult. However, as far as the specific issue of donors and apparatus is concerned, I think that in the case of privatisation or privacy there is no distinction between public health and public health, and those donations that have been possible in the field of public health are also possible in private public health. There is always this problem of privacy, privatisation outside the health system and public health with this system that works in public health. And I always say when I talk about primary health, I always talk about public private health, financed by the same funds as they are now financed. However, the analysis of better use and people and equipment in the case of private health care is clear and also that such treatment for health care is cheaper, data are all over the world. We don't have that kind of analysis yet, because it's hard to have. Because we have as little private health care as I've always said and that we are to avoid in Europe. And in the future, I think we will go this way as it is known in other European countries. However, we are also doing analyses in this sense at home, but so far the results of various surveys have not yet been completed.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Although time has run out, I think it's such a hard thing that we all tolerate it. And the next question she raised the last time, Mrs Pozsoncheva. Will the Minister just answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u10	Question: Reorganisation of health care in Slovenia and how the ministry will tackle the problem of lack of doctors. That was the question. I have already replied something in the second part of this response to Mrs Potter. But I could still continue here. The Ministry of Health has set itself, for one of its priorities for regulating the state of health in the country, a proper regime for the relationship between public and private work in public health, especially at the primary level, as well as at the secondary level. And within the framework of the new health legislation, we will seek to introduce transparent private work in the field of basic health care within the framework of existing public health services capacities. We will also examine the conditions for the work of free doctors of specialists and thus increase the efficiency of health care and bring it closer to users. What does that mean, a free doctor specialist? This can work on two levels. It can work as a contract doctor in a hospital, and it can work in different hospitals for different working hours, but it can also work in the form of special groups in the field of basic health care, and right here we actually match our northern neighbours Austrians, who we are somehow in touch with and trying to achieve the same health care system at the basic health level with the different two paths. From the point of view of a fragmented private service, we from the point of view of the so-called classic health care system and bring things to the point where a group of doctors or other health workers, as a group, can act in their own interest for those groups of residents who also live in the area. In particular, it is important that we implement those progressive and weighed European comparable reform systems, processes that upgrade the level of health care, of course, taking into account the development of medicine, changed pathology and, above all, the ageing of the population. Of course, we must also take care of social justice and also of universal access to health care rights and also of money. In doing so, we must make it clear that it will be necessary to very carefully analyse the scope of the rights, the standards of compulsory health insurance rights and also to face them with other European countries, with European standards. It will be necessary to define and establish a modern health service organisation for more efficient and quality work by doctors and other health personnel, and to identify even a number of other things, such as the division of work between levels of health care, and to create conditions for the gradual privatisation of certain parts of health facilities. Here I no longer mean only private public health at the primary level, but the entry of capital, private funds, into investments in hospitals. In this context, we are also preparing for a future period of legislative change, which will make this more clear and more precise. We're just going to make the changes in two stages. In the first phase, the Health and Health Insurance Act and the Health Act and the Medical Service Act would incorporate and supplement these laws into the existing system of certain changes already this year. These mean the rehabilitation of the accumulated weaknesses and the situation in the last period. It is anticipated that by the end of 2006, we will have prepared a professional basis for the new system health insurance and healthcare legislation by creating, of course, a European comparable basket of rights in compulsory health insurance without payment on the basis of complete solidarity. At the same time, of course, in the amended legislation, we will also try to amend legislation by allowing additional insurance, here I do not mean supplementary insurance, I mean superstandard insurance that could solve a number of problems from which there is virtually no way out. As for the employment and lack of doctors in Slovenia, I hope you don't think this is our fault that this has happened. That's what's been going on for the last eight years, I'm going to say, sometimes with serious organizational errors, that this situation has occurred. The situation is impossible to solve in six months, not in two. However, there are some possibilities that, despite the short lack of doctors, at least in some parts of Slovenia, will be resolved. This option with doctors from abroad [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] is probably the fastest, but it's hard to realize. [[...]] For us, the most important thing will be to get 100 to 150 seconds after 2007, when the mandatory secondary rate ends, and this will be one of the chances that the problem of lack of doctors in Slovenia will at least partially be solved. The other thing is import, we think mainly from Slovakia. Slovakia and I have been kind of in touch for the next year. So much for the first part. If there's any more questions, I'll answer them.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mrs. Possonec.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u12	Thank you very much for your words and thank you very much for your comprehensive answer, because it was true. I am concerned that what was good, for example, care for children, vaccination against various diseases: Will private people also monitor this as a child’s dispensaries so far? That's one question. Secondly, I believe that we are ourselves responsible for having domestic doctors who can speak our language. What will happen to those doctors who are now coming from abroad? The patients really need a home word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u13	Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u14	As for dispensers and preventatives, if I understand correctly, then the situation is exactly the same as it is now. In these things 100% in the private system is regulated within the public system, of course, then in another way. There are no changes at this time as far as this is concerned. One thing I often repeat is that one of the activities in the healthcare system at the basic level, and the so-called pre-hospital ward, will never be private. In a system in which 100% of the private public health service is at the primary level, it will be imperative to organise an emergency service separately from basic health care, which can be an organisational problem. I am aware of this, but in this way, all other countries that have practically entirely private, private basic health care have their jobs organised. I've told you many times that an ER doesn't belong in this system. Some attempts across Europe in recent years, where this part of health care is supposed to go into private hands, have failed, and I think that such attempts will not be possible in us, we will not even try to do so, because this has proved to be impossible. As far as Slovenian, Slovenian doctors, my opinion on this, you know, is like yours. However, it is difficult to ensure, in the absence of doctors, that these doctors who come from foreign countries will be 100% familiar with Slovenian. I think it's important that they can communicate with patients, that patients understand them, and that's what we're doing now. The conditions for performance, for obtaining a licence in the field of medical work, are first of all a Slovenian examination. But these exams from Slovenian, I'd rather not comment on what knowledge of this Slovenian is actually real, even though these people have exams. That's not my problem. On my exam, I met a doctor who had no knowledge of Slovenian, and he had a Slovenian exam. That's not my job. In every way I support you by wanting our patients to talk to a doctor in Slovenian, and we will do so in the future, as we have done so far, very strictly.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u15	Thank you very much. In the meantime, I have been informed that the following Member and Members are withdrawing the questions of the Members, in addition to those I have already mentioned, namely Alenka Jeraj, Rudi Petan, Milenko Ziherl and Bojan Rugelj. We are moving on to the current parliamentary questions that should have been raised earlier Monday, the first on the list being the Member of the Mags. Milan M. Cwickl, who will ask the Minister of Finance a question. The word is yours.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u16	Mr President, Members and Members, Minister, Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia! Last Monday, 13 June, when we started with our questions, Mr Prime Minister and the President of the SDS of Slovenia did not respond satisfactorily to the question of what the new government will do in response to data on the halving of economic growth in the first quarter of 2005 compared to 2004. Maybe it's the Prime Minister's concern, he said it's not yet statistically significant. Maybe it's something else. This is not a concern of the Prime Minister, because the priority of this government is not necessarily economic growth, but governance as such. We estimate that the government has done enough in the short term to accelerate the decline in economic growth. We are afraid, especially now, when, even within the EU after failures in referendums, the agreement on the next financial perspective fails to reach a political, budgetary and gradually economic crisis if the agreement is concluded later than intended. In doing so, the Prime Minister, who announced before the elections what everything and how quickly he will do something, says now that nothing can be done quickly. More than half a year after the government takes over, the government says it will first do research and then, on the basis of these studies, propose measures. Nothing is yet known about the measures. More serious reforms, tax reforms are being prepared, but they fluctuate, on the one hand, during the introduction of a single tax rate, on the other hand, the changes in income legislation and certain other laws. Mr. Secretary, Members and Members of Parliament! During the week between 6 and 10 June, before this regular meeting of the National Assembly, during the week when we tried to agree on some important topics in Slovenia, the negotiating position for the next financial perspective, when the government met with the Croatian government, was assessed by Croatia at a time when the EU did not yet rule the rule of law, in the week when we discussed the budget balance on the parent committees, an important press conference took place. The Statistical Office found that the resounding growth of GDP has resounded. I therefore ask the Minister of Finance: What do you intend to propose as Minister of Finance to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in order to prevent the decline of economic growth from the first quarter of 2005 even further this year? What do you think are the key causes of the severe decline in economic growth?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Minister, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u18	Thank you so much for asking. A nice greeting to all, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Economic growth began to calm down in the first quarter of 2005, as predicted by the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development, which predicts 3.8% of gross domestic product growth this year compared to 4.6% for 2004. In the first quarter, gross investment contributed most to the decline in economic growth, with a real decline of 0.5% compared to the first quarter of 2004. There has also been a decline in the exchange of goods and services abroad. Exports increased by 8.9% in the first quarter of last year compared to the first quarter of last year and 13.3% in the last quarter last year. Imports by 6.6% and 11.6% in the fourth quarter of 2004. Since the second half of last year, growth rates have been decreasing in exports and imports of goods and services. I would like to point out that while the rate of growth has been reduced, these are very good indicators in the sense that, at the moment, exports of the Slovenian economy, especially to the EU 15 countries, are still holding up and growing, and this must certainly be regarded as positive. These movements are certainly within the framework of expectations, since it is clear that 2004 was an exceptional year, Slovenia's entry into the EU has had a strong impact on economic activity throughout the year, and therefore, in the first quarter of the year before joining the EU, we recorded average growth rates. Gross domestic product growth rate was 4.1% in the first quarter of 2004 and 2.6% this year. If we consider the unique impact of EU entry and compare this year's growth with that of 2002 or 2003, we find that in the first quarter of 2003 and 2002, growth was entirely comparable to 2.6% and 2.7%. What do we mean by that? That data so far, and this also shows analyses by the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development, do not require us to create an atmosphere of crisis. However, how can the state help to raise the rates of economic growth, this is essentially a Member's issue. What do I propose as Minister of Finance? In my judgment, two. The government must ensure and continue to ensure a stable macroeconomic environment and implement the necessary structural reforms. The government will continue to ensure the stability of the macroeconomic environment by co-ordinated management of economic policies, which will allow for a soft landing in the euro area. This means that we will continue to take measures to reduce the level of inflation that show results. By the end of May, inflation had fallen by 2.2% year-on-year, the lowest rate of price growth since Slovenia was independent. However, ensuring a stable macroeconomic environment also includes a gradual reduction of the budget deficit. The 2005 budget rebalancing adopted by this National Assembly yesterday provides exactly that, in the coming days, downsizing and in the coming years provides us with a reduction in the gap between income and expenditure, thus reducing the budget deficit to 1.4% of gross domestic product already this year. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] [[...]] In the area of structural reforms, there are more than enough challenges for the new government. And in all areas, the government will propose measures to promote higher economic growth, specifically in the field of the Minister of Finance, there is, of course, a tax system, which must be particularly transparent, simple and efficient. The former government has introduced an endlessly complex system in this area [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] That the tax administration itself failed to digest it. [[...]] We are working on this and our plan is to present by the end of the year changes to the tax system that will simplify both the tax procedure and the system of certain individual taxes.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u19	It's incomprehensible.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u20	mentioned a predictable legislative framework that allows for easy and rapid registration of businesses, minimising administrative barriers to the operation of companies and in this area we have some work to do, but we believe that we have done this correctly and that the results will be visible in a short time. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u21	Member of the Commission. Complementation of reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary, for your answer. Now, we totally disagree with all the numbers because in the last 12 years, the average economic growth was 4.2%. This has also been made clear several times and, of course, 2.6 in the first quarter is much smaller, but above all the important difference between average growth in the European Union, which has so far been around three times between Slovenia and the European Union, and now the difference, 2.6 in Slovenia and slightly below 2 in Europe, has been greatly reduced, and therefore the acceleration of exports to EU countries 15. I am pleased that you are still thinking about a stable macroeconomic environment, even though yesterday we have found that, at least according to international methodologies, which take into account not only what you want, but also what you actually want to do, there has been a significant increase in the net lending of the Central State. Of course, we estimate that the growth of gross domestic product is the result of two factors. Firstly, in our view, even in the light of the discussions with the former Minister, there has been a relative delay in the implementation of the budget balance, which is relatively late. Secondly, that evident political interventions affect the economy [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] does not deal with the acceleration of exports. [[...]] I want a full response. By 25 May, the first government budget meeting should be held, until 15 June, the second government budget meeting for 2006, 2007. That's what laws and submarital acts say. I would like to ask: What are the priorities of the government that you will prepare in the 2006 budget, 2007 to make sure [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Understand whether it will prevent economic growth from falling? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u23	Thank you. Dr. Bayuk, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u24	Thank you very much. I see from your introduction that you are still insisting on the implementation of incorrect data regarding the public financial deficit. Let me explain again. The European Commission and the European Central Bank are not only looking at our budget when it comes to looking at and assessing what the actual situation of public finances is, but then at the individual, either the health insurance institution or the PSIZ and local self-government. He's looking at the whole thing. And fully, even if you find this difficult to accept, honourable Member, the deficit is actually falling, after ESA-95 it is falling from the projected 2.1% reported by the government in the convergence programme last year, to approximately cca. 1.6. So it doesn't make sense to keep insisting, but I think you're working on this basis that repeating certain data will achieve what and maybe someone will get caught up in it. However, to return to what is supposed to be a complementary issue, in fact, it is completely different, and I can assure you that the government will send to this National Assembly in time a draft budget for 2006 in accordance with the law. When we have meetings or not, I don't think it's that important. However, anyone who has followed discussions and debates in this National Assembly in the last ten days, I think he understands that it has been very difficult for the Minister of Finance to have any special session of the last week on the future for 2006, when we had to repeat here and listen more than 10 times to the same questions and one and the same implementation. And I'm done. There is no reason, now, on the basis of the figures of the first quarter, that the government should do something different than it is now. Compare the first quarter with the data of the last 12 years only makes sense if you compare the first quarter of the last 12 years. And as I have already mentioned to you, we are assessing, and also on the basis of the analysis of the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development, that economic growth is dispossessed, as it seems, in the first quarter of 2005, in fact, in accordance with what has happened in previous years. However, as far as this will actually prove to be the case, the government will act in a timely manner and report to this distinguished national assembly, including the Member of Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u25	Thank you very much. There's no way, Mr. Squeakl. Procedurally. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u26	In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 236, in the reply of the Minister of Finance, the President of the Second Coalition Party and the most responsible for the state of Slovenian public finances, the economy and the responsible person to ensure Slovenia's ability to take over the euro, the Special Agenda item discusses. That's because he said at least one inaccuracies. In the 2005 budget, we have 3 times more dividends than ever before, almost 27 billion economic exhaustion, and this, Mr Minister, is a single effect that is about 0.5% of GDP, and that is why, by international classifications, this is not a regular income. I propose that we hold a debate on this, and the decision on this is likely to come to an end, Mr Vice-President.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Exactly. Your request has been recorded and we will vote on it after the 10th item of the agenda, together with the second vote. Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Dusan Kumer, who will ask the Minister of Defence a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u28	Thank you for your word. Dear ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In recent months and weeks, we have had many opportunities to hear both ministers and Prime Minister, not least at the time of the discussion on the budgetary rebalancing, the problems of the budgetary financial situation. However, it is clear that so many times the highlighted assessment and warnings do not always apply in practice and concrete behaviour. A few weeks ago, a meeting of the Parliamentary Assembly of the NATO Association was concluded in Ljubljana, for which at least 100 million tolars were used to organize the press. On this occasion, Minister Erjavec announced to the press that next year Slovenia will be the organizer of the NATO Summit, which is expected to cost some additional 100 million tolars to Slovenian taxpayers. These are, of course, huge costs, which are not entirely necessary for the NATO membership status itself. In doing so, it is necessary to say that the flat membership costs already amount to around € 1.6 million this year and will already be €2.8 million in the next year. Also one fundamental condition for NATO membership, this gradual increase in the military budget of Slovenia is being disciplined, as from 1.23% of GDP for defence in 2000 after five years this percentage has increased by just over 1.7% today. Therefore, of course, the question arises in itself why money is spent, intended for defence also where this is not necessarily necessary. Therefore, the types of spending, of course, also include certain specific actions, which have also been the subject of public perceptions in recent days. That's why I'm asking the Minister of Defence, Karl Erjavac: Is it necessary to spend as much money on similar meetings as the last one in Ljubljana at the time of the annual emergency increase in military budget expenditure, which is one of the conditions for NATO membership? What benefit will Slovenia have in organising and financing such meetings? Does this give Slovenia additional development opportunities and opportunities for economic cooperation, as promised before joining NATO? What are the opportunities and development opportunities?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Erjavec, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Commissioner, I thank you for the question raised, and I confirm that Slovenia will host an informal meeting of NATO defence ministers next September. However, I must say that the recent conclusion of the session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the NATO Association has not been organised by the Ministry of Defence, but has been organised through Parliament and has been the organiser of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Let me say that ministerial meetings are held twice a year as a rule and represent a ministerial session of the North Atlantic Council, which discusses the most important current security policy issues of the Alliance. This activity constitutes a regular form of part of the Alliance, where the most important decisions are taken. It is not a form of seminary tourism, as it has been called. The ministerial session is organised alternately in different Member States, on the basis of previous arrangements, so that this obligation should certainly be fulfilled by our country in the coming period. Informal meetings are of a highly working nature. At the Ministry of Defence, we are convinced that the organisation of the informal meeting of NATO Defence Ministers will be an exceptional opportunity to promote Slovenia and its role within the framework of the Alliance. From the Member States and some partner countries, about 1,000 participants will arrive in Slovenia and the event will be covered by all major global media. All those present at the meeting of the defence ministers will pay the costs of their stay themselves. Furthermore, it is not only a meeting within the competence of each ministry, but a project at the level of the country in which the various economic operators in the field of tourism, logistics and other services needed to organise such an event will be involved indirectly. In any event, the benefits, both political and the benefits of all the participating entities, will also be higher economically than the direct costs of the organisation. Additional development opportunities and opportunities for participation in various non-military economic, scientific and technological projects have opened up with Slovenia's entry into NATO. Some Slovenian companies have already taken advantage of the opportunity and are actively involved in projects run and financed by NATO. With our NATO membership, we have secured the status of a country with a low level of business risk and the possibility of economic cooperation with the most developed countries, including the military. The country, with its international activities, opens the door to the cooperation of individual companies and in concrete projects is based on their own initiative and the ability to meet the requirements of individual projects. Certainly, these options in the economic field need to be assessed in terms of the whole activity and functioning of our country within the framework of an alliance and not just an individual meeting or meeting. The Ministry of Defence contributed 390 million SIT to NATO's total budgets in 2004 and will pay 618 million in 2005. The increase in payments for 2005 is due to the fact that we have provided full membership since 29 March 2004 and total payments have been lower for this.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mr. Kumer.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u32	Thank you for your word. I thank the Minister for his reply, which, of course, I cannot be entirely satisfied with. Most of what you've told me is in the propaganda book of Natopis, but I specifically asked about some things. My focus was on spending money where it was not necessary for NATO membership. You have also written in the coalition contract, among other things, quote: "The government will set an example by acting in a cost-saving manner and by lowering the cost of its work, etc. "--the end of the quote. I am not a minister, I have not written and adopted this ethical code, and I have not yet adopted other decrees, I am an opposition Member, whose duty it is to remind you, in the form of the work you have, that your actions and actions do not deviate too significantly from the promises you have written and made. So, of course, from the Minister, who himself believes that he has an acute social sense that he is born with social justice and solidarity, that he should act at least in the spirit of the ethical code of government or more; that he will have poor results on the development and economic benefits of the Slovenian economy after more than a year in NATO membership and that he and the Minister of Economy and the Minister of Labour will react in the government to turn these trends in a different direction. Therefore, once again, I ask you to tell me in concrete terms during this one-year period: What development and economic benefit does the Slovenian economy have from this, and how has this affected the social status and situation of the people? Some estimates show it's even worse than it was before entry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u33	Thank you. Speak only one, please! Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u34	Thank you for that additional question. I have already mentioned the benefits of the Slovenian economy. As far as I'm concerned, it's probably not the right place to comment on it. Let me say that Slovenia is a member of NATO, that it is a custom for each country to organise this meeting once, and in September 2006 Slovenia was given this opportunity, and I am confident that it shows that it is likely that the number of participants will be around 1,000, that this will be a very good promotion, that it will also make good profits for hotelers and others, so that I do not see any problem. With regard to specific numbers, what are the effects in this respect, given Slovenia's entry into NATO, I cannot talk about these numbers. Such analysis has not been done, but it certainly does not hold what you have found out, because there is also no analysis to be negative with NATO membership. I said in my reply that it is the NATO membership that ensures that we are defined in the world as a country with a lower level of business risk. You must have heard that in my answer. And that's important information because, you know, nobody likes to deal with someone with a high level of risk.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u35	Thank you very much. I'm asking the next question, mag. Is he still asking a question to the absent Minister of Justice?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u36	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. You surprised me a little bit. I got here fast. I would like to ask the absent Minister of Justice this question. The level of confidence in the judiciary in our country is quite shaken, according to public opinion research. During the previous term of office, we discussed the situation in the judiciary, including the Ombudsman's report every time, and the warnings from the European Union come about as a pressing problem. In connection with this problem, the question of how to ensure a more effective but quality trial that would strengthen confidence in the rule of law is often raised. It was not only once possible to hear or read concerns about the increasing number of judges, even for poorer judicial statistics, that the feminisation of the judiciary would be responsible. In this light, however, we receive a recent statement by the President of the Supreme Court, stating: "The profession of a judge is no longer decided by the best students of law, it is increasingly the judges, and it is not encouraging for the judiciary," the end of the note - a message which can give that the President of the Supreme Court did not have it in mind and opened the way for a different understanding. According to statistics in the first half of 2003, there are 61.5% of women in the labour and social courts, while only 42.6% of women in the Supreme Court. Similarly, the motion for a resolution on a national programme for equal opportunities between women and men states, "in the courts and prosecutors, the proportion of women is slightly higher than that of men, but falls with the hierarchy of jurisdiction of the court or the prosecution". There are already warnings from Europe that something will have to be done in appointing more responsible positions in the judiciary as regards women. Although it is not possible for me to talk about the feminization of the judiciary, but only about the increase in the proportion of women approaching the gender ratio in the entire population, I ask the Minister of Justice the following questions: In his opinion, how does feminisation affect work in the judiciary? How does he plan to deal with this phenomenon if, of course, he deems it necessary? And: What will he do, that more women too? [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] in responsible positions in the Court of Justice? [[...]] When he answers, I'll thank him for his answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u37	Thank you very much. In the meantime, we were joined by young visitors, whom I warmly welcome at the temple of democracy and their companions. I also warn that we have a few more withdrawals, so that a lot of people will come in faster than an account, which withdraws their questions: Cyril Testen, mag. Franz Capuder and Mojca Kucler Dolinar. On the other hand, it is Ambassador Maria Pozsonec who wants to ask questions to the absent Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u38	I would like to ask Mr Dimitri Ruple the following question. What did the government of the two countries in Briony bring to the residents of Mura? The poor decision to establish the border near Mura greatly made the lives of the inhabitants there worse. Apart from the last incident with the boat on the Mura, the daily problems of fishermen are not negligible, which must not be allowed in any way. Despite friendly relations between the countries, there are patrols of armed Croatian police officers in Slovenian border villages. I'm interested, and that's exactly what I'd like to know: Who and when signed an agreement on such a regime? I should like to point out very firmly that neither the inhabitants of the Lendu municipality nor the members of Hungarian nationality, because they own the land there around Mura, have ever agreed to such a limit. A few centuries ago, the Mura River was a border river. In the light of recent developments, I warn you that it is not always possible to put everything under the rug. It seems to me that it is not true that we are always losing, that is, except for short-term measures, among which should be the immediate cessation of the patrolling of armed Croatian police officers in our territory. Keep an eye on the correction of the border along the Mura River. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u39	Thank you very much. That's exactly how Dr. Paula Gantar withdraws his question. However, it is not withdrawn by Mr Ljubo Germič, who will appoint him to the Minister for Education and Sport.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u40	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen! Minister of Education and Sports, Dr. Milan Beast! On April 2, 1986, a protocol was signed in Maribor on the final regulation of property legal matters between the city of Maribor and its municipalities and the Roman Catholic diocese in Maribor. The Roman Catholic Protocol was signed by the bishop of Maribor, Dr. Franc Kramberger and President Vinko Lapuh for the Executive Board of the Maribor Assembly. The Protocol provides that, with the implementation of the provisions of this Protocol, the city of Maribor and its municipalities shall not have any further obligations towards the Roman Catholic diocese and Roman Catholic parishes in Maribor under the title nationalised or expropriated facilities and land. On May 30, 2005, the document's faximiles were published on page 35 of the magazine Mladina. We have learned from the media that on 10 May 2005 you signed an agreement with the Moroccan archdiocese or a contract with a content that the public is still not aware of, despite the question of our kind, which we have asked you on 16 May 2005. So once again, I ask: Is it legitimate and moral that the Maribor diocese has received in nature returned property, even though by signing the Protocol it has confirmed that payment is sufficient to meet all its requirements? Mr. Minister, how economically did the government in this case, when it knew the protocol, admit to returning in nature?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u41	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u42	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members! Thank you for asking. It is necessary to say that the protocol, which you are talking about and following up certain conclusions, was concluded between the bishop and then the social political organisations in Maribor on other matters in question, as it is called legal. If you have looked closely at the cited document, which has also been published in other media, not only in this one, you can understand that it is a completely different subject: apartments, houses, parcels of parcels that are not in the cadastral municipalities or have nothing to do with the subject of the agreement that we reached this year. You mix apples and pears a little bit on the question. One of the legal bases for the conclusion of an agreement between the diocese, which was also represented by other denationalisationists, and between the State or Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which I represented in this agreement. It is necessary to say that this is a completely different legal relationship, including another legal basis, we have concluded this on the basis of Zden and also an agreement prepared by the Ministry of Education and Sport in 1997, when it was led by the current minister, your client colleague, Dr. Gaber. This agreement clearly states that the settlement and acquisition of replacement property will only be possible to conclude an agreement within the framework of the ZDen - the Denationalisation Act, which was passed several years after this protocol, which you are talking about, is in the second half of the 1980s. One more time, if I may. The 1986 Protocol and the agreement concluded this year have nothing in common, not the legal basis, nor the subjects on which these agreements were concluded. Whether the government has acted rationally, economically or not, I can answer very easily. The Ministry of Education and Sport has acquired ownership and management of two important facilities, which are the third high school and the music and ballet high school, which will finally enable us to approach the investment maintenance of these facilities, which are in poor condition. At the same time, it allowed us to acquire or finally arrange a network of high schools in Maribor. When we did this, this agreement, we finally avoided the larger lawsuit brought before the court, thus avoiding a punishment of billions of Slovenian tolars, which grew from day to day. For that reason, I believe we have done well. For these two reasons, or for these two facts, it is quite clear that this time the Slovenian government acted not only in accordance with legal principles, i.e. the principles of the rule of law, but also economically. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u43	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Germich, aren't you satisfied?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Of course, I cannot be satisfied with the answer, for I would read once again in the text of the Protocol, which clearly states that the implementation of its provisions is the final solution to all property law issues or all property legal matters arising from compensation for nationalised or expropriated buildings and lands of the Roman Catholic diocese and Roman Catholic parishes in the area of Maribor. This is definitely clearly and loudly recorded in this Protocol. So much for pears and apples we're talking about. Of course, you also discussed the impact assessments of such arrangements, which were regulated by your signing of the agreement. However, here is the following fact which has been reported from the Ministry of Finance and talks about financial work. The financial part of the property compensation, which you spoke of, which was not returned in nature, the investment of the Republic of Slovenia, compensation for the impossibility of the use of real estate, i.e. from a denationalisation claim, is not the subject of the signed agreement. The question is, what are these assessments? Do they have a concrete calculation? If this concrete calculation exists, then, of course, the comprehensive content of my question should be evaluated, but not by speaking on one side about one fact, while the other fact is not mentioned. I wonder: When will these financial issues be resolved and can we actually get a comprehensive assessment of this work? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u46	This latter was not the subject of this Agreement. But I'd like to point it out again. It's two completely different stories. In 1986 a protocol was concluded between the two legal entities on other matters in question and this year between the two legal entities on again other legal matters. We can't mix things up here. Legal entities may have recorded what was written during the weeks, but the law on denationalisation is perfectly clear, which was adopted in the early 1990s. My predecessor also saw the need for the remaining cases to be resolved between denationalisation beneficiaries and the country in such a way, by taking into account the law, on the basis of the law. And if you want, I can also give you a more detailed definition of what was written in this contract in 1997. For example, point 7 says he sees the archdiocese high school solving its spatial problem in obtaining a location on Verbanski 30. Not only the legal basis, but also according to the content, things were settled in 1997. We have only performed or done what has already been prepared, but for some, I have less known reasons, stalled and blocked by certain factors. If you want, I can show you this contract. I believe it will be very convincing for you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Since a lot of Members and Members have withdrawn the questions, I suggest that I read them in advance, because of those who are not in the Chamber, so that they know when they are coming. Now it is Mr. Friend and then Dr. Slavinec, Miran Potrč, Dr. Lahovnik and Samo Bevk. Mr. Friend, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Dear Presidents, distinguished ministers, colleagues and colleagues! The right to work is a constitutional norm and I would like to address a few questions in this regard to the Minister of Labour today. Nearly 97,000 people are unemployed in Slovenia. Forty thousand new promises. However, the institutions for work in the congregations are unprofessional, in our opinion, even corrupt. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary, are you going to remove this non-professional activity from the institutions? We know that people travel to education, but despite their completed additional education, they do not get a job. We know that corrupt payments are being made for the new employment of new people who are fictitious. We can also track the latest cases in the media. These payments are enormously large, in millions of dollars. The same natural persons can close the company today and reopen another company, which they already have in stock, and hire new people. Pregnant women, single mothers, the elderly and disabled are simply left at the institution and are rewarded with the large millions of amounts they receive from the institution. Tomorrow's story repeats itself. Foreigners do unobstructed work in black, no one controls them. Enrolled workers, unemployed workers in the institution have no control whatsoever. He occasionally calls them, but he prefers not to, because they usually do a drill in the offices and disturb lawyers and workers. It's easy for us to set a pattern in other people's lives. In Italy, if bankruptcy or financial non-discipline occurs, there is a compulsory bankruptcy and the State shall ensure that ownership is transferred to another operator within the shortest period of time. This man then employs existing workers and also the owner, who is relieved or sold to him if anything remains, and gets credited to his current account. However, he has the right to work in a new company under the new owner. I don't think we have any sanctions like this. Almost everything is allowed here, so I would really like to make this matter really over. Above all, it pains me to allow for such great corruption as in our economy that a person can easily close his business and the next day, under a new name, open a new company, avoid payment of obligations and simply get a reward from the country. When are you going to settle this matter at the Ministry, I'd like to know, Your Honorable Minister?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u49	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u50	Thank you very much, honourable Member, for the questions raised. There are certainly many things in the functioning of the Employment Service that do not meet the criteria or do not meet the expectations of the unemployed. They do a lot of good, but they get stuck. First, I would like to touch upon the one-off payment of these incentives for new employment. In this regard, the Regulation shall also apply and, where applicable, a single amount should be paid, the Employment Office review how the criteria are met, namely that it has not breached the obligation under the funds received for active employment policy programmes over the last two years prior to the nomination. Second, to submit a bank guarantee or, in agreement with the institution, another prescribed insurance and has settled taxes and contributions. By taking over the Ministry myself, I strictly demand that the criteria of a bank guarantee or mortgage insurance on the basis of real estate be met at a single amount. This, of course, eliminates any possibility of abuse so that the country does not receive its required amount after possible bankruptcy. I therefore hope that we have already resolved these problems in this regard. Otherwise, in the first year of business, we require data from these companies. If it is found that there is no high degree of likelihood of realization of the idea, this may be rejected in a discretionary manner, in the same way as where the suspicion of a crime is raised or where it is reasonably assumed that it will not be able to fulfil the contractual obligations. It is also not approved for those who, in the last 18 months prior to applying for funds, have forgiven workers or have applied for funds for the employment of the same workers. In short, this surveillance has been strengthened. The Court of Auditors shall also supervise. We think things are getting better. I can also point out that we are going to undertake some kind of human resources restructuring and a retraining at the employment institution, because every institution, every such entity, is in need of improvement, because we believe that in some areas they do not do what they are expected to do. Ninety-seven thousand unemployed, you say. Forty thousand are promising. In this regard, we have the appropriate measures we have taken in the 2005 Active Employment Policy Programme. These are appropriate measures and are certainly also needed in other areas, in economic areas, in order to attract more investment or domestic investors to Slovenia. Active employment policy measures cannot ensure full impact, of course they are also needed in other areas. With regard to foreigners and black work, restrictions on foreign employment quotas. In this regard, the Regulation has also been adopted, this quota for this year, while some complain that they are not properly registered with these workers from abroad, particularly ambassadors. That is true, but it is also the fault of these workers who do not want to enter into a regular working relationship and then the inspection finds out that there is illegality of reasoning and then the painful problems of returning workers begin. However, the work inspectorate is also strictly in control. But we're sure to make this thing stronger. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr. Friend has volunteered to complete the response.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u52	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister, you have only partially given me a satisfactory answer. I must say that, in fact, with 2 million Slovenians, if we have such a population of unemployment, and if we subtract all those under 18 years of age, and all those who have already done their jobs enjoy a pension, then we can say that this percentage in percentage calculations is much higher than we could have read in official statistics. Right to work. I have not objected to foreigners who come to us after an official procedure and who are found to have a deficit employment sector in our country, to challenge those who have received political asylum or are here for any other reason, but work unhindered and no one controls them. Last but not least, you yourself have cut 2 billion tolls of active employment in this year's budget rebalancing. I don't believe this story you just told. I also expected you to say something new about the amendment of the company law. In particular, I expect that the natural person who has already caused bankruptcy and has done damage to both individuals and the economy in Slovenia should no longer be doing the same activity with the same name in Slovenia for at least 15 years. That's what I'd expect you to tell me today. This is normal in other European countries. Those who are thieves to step on their toes. We don't have anyone in prison with a conviction like this. At least I don't know her. They're walking quietly. Not to say what the wages of bankruptcyists are, which, nicely said, pay even rewards in millions of dollars. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u53	Thank you. Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u54	Thank you very much for the supplementary question. With regard to the student work, where there were a number of questions and it was also related to the black work or other work, we have made some changes. The provisions relating to the Employment and Unemployment Insurance Act have been amended in order to improve this activity, with less abuse or to prevent it at all. Amendments to the Companies Act are being prepared. Again, I would like to point out that your claim does not hold on to an active employment policy programme. Take a look at the reality of last year and you will see 17 billion 200, this year 20 billion 500 for an active employment policy programme. Of course, you are constantly comparing what was stated in the plan, but we are looking at what happened last year and what was supposed to happen this year. This is an increase of 20%, with a reduction in the number of employees. What's going to happen, whether there's 40,000 unemployed, and we've been listening to these versions for a while. We are prepared with measures, but of course I expect from the Employment Service a rapid action. In this regard, the Ministry will also follow the measures that we have at our disposal. With regard to employment in Italy, that after bankruptcy they hire always the same persons, I would not hope to claim that the employer there is not obliged to take those workers to the same place. He'll take as many as he needs. There's a lot of people he doesn't accept. Definitely. I agree with you, however, that there is still much to be done, that the situation is such and needs to be improved in order to ensure greater social security, more jobs and that active employment policy measures are received in this year by more people [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] That's what the program predicted. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u55	Thank you very much. It is the turn of Mr Mitja Slavinec to ask the Minister of Transport.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u56	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Secretary! The important mission of the Ministry of Transport is certainly to provide different transport-related services and services to all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia under the same conditions. One such is undoubtedly the type-approval of motor vehicles. And it is in this area that the inhabitants of certain areas are in an extremely neglected situation. If, for example, someone from Pomur wants to carry out type-approval of a motorcycle, he must travel the whole country to Kopra where they do so. If someone wants to carry out a tractor approval check, he has to travel to Ljubljana because he has a concession for this company here. It is true that companies with concessions refer to the provision of territorial coverage, of course to contractual partners, but practice shows that such contracts are usually not implemented at all, since reviews in partner companies, or when concessionaires go on the ground, are almost 50% more expensive. 8 800 is the price in Ljubljana and over 12,000 reaches specifically in Mursko Sobota, which is once again not in accordance with the same conditions and opportunities for all citizens. Even more so, as the poorer populations of less developed regions tend to be. Therefore, Mr Minister, I ask you: How and when will you eliminate this clearly discriminatory attitude towards certain regions, which is unconstitutional and also contrary to the European acquis? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Christmas.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u58	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Thank you for the question concerning the regional coverage of Slovenia with the relevant organisations where the vehicle type-approval procedure can be carried out. However, it is already clear from the question itself that in this case it is indeed a case of individual vehicle approval procedure, which can be taken into account in the individual import of the vehicle. The vehicle type-approval may only be carried out by the vehicle manufacturer and shall always apply only to the type of vehicle produced. This procedure does not concern individual citizens. Currently, procedures under individual vehicle approval are only carried out in four professional organisations located in Cyprus, Ljubljana and two in Maribor, for freight and passenger vehicles, which also carry out such checks at other locations outside their seat, i.e. joint in twelve locations. We are aware of the particular severity of the current regime and of the associated additional costs for the inhabitants of the outermost regions, which was mainly related to the necessary expertise for individual tasks and the uniform criteria required for the assessment of vehicles. We are already preparing a different approach for the future, in accordance with the new Vehicle Conformity Assessment Regulation, a call will be made for organisations which, in meeting the requirements of the required expertise, can compete for appointment as expert vehicle inspection organisations in the individual authorisation process. One of the main criteria will be Slovenia's regional coverage with these organisations, bringing this activity closer to the inhabitants of all regions. We anticipate that this invitation to tender will be drawn up in the second half of this year. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u59	Thank you, Minister. Dr. Slavinac.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u60	Thank you very much for your answer. I am pleased to announce this invitation to tender. At the same time, however, I would just like to point out as complementary that some organisations have already had this, so the expertise in this place certainly could not be the only reason. If such checks have been conducted in the past, there is no reason not to be in the future or in the present. But I'm also pointing out the problem with the rulebook itself. Companies that do not currently exercise this are very difficult or virtually impossible to run on an equal footing. It shall be drawn up in such a way that they cannot fulfil the conditions so that they can apply for the award of this concession after the present rules in force. So I take this opportunity to ask you: Are you aware of this and do you foresee in this invitation a correction of this regulation and regulation? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u61	Thank you. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u62	Thanks for the extra questions. Of course, we are aware of the issue of true competition in this area. Above all, it is a matter of compliance with European Union regulation and comparability with similar methodologies, which are also established in the European Union. In this context, we will also adapt the rules. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u63	Thank you very much. The following is Mr Miran Potrč, who will ask the Minister of Finance and the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the ministers, Mr. Vice President! The public has recently rightly excited information on the possible consequences of unpaid social security contributions, the rights of employees from pension, disability and health insurance. Notwithstanding the provisions of the relevant laws: the Employment Records Act, the Tax Procedure Act, the Pension and Disability Insurance Act and others, or perhaps because of their irreconcilability, is particularly important whether the Pension and Disability Insurance Office will recognise those working hours, even though the employer did not pay contributions for them for a period of time and the employees did not know about the payment as they received the net salary. However, it is not clear how employees should find out whether the employer has paid all the contributions for it, as it cannot always verify that its employer fulfils the statutory obligation to pay the contributions because such supervision must be provided by the State. In the Social Democrats Group, we believe that employees who are in a regular working relationship who have no reason to doubt that their employer is properly billing and paying contributions should be ensured that they are not deprived of work and pension or health care. The State must be able to ensure that employers fulfil their legal obligations and that all contributions are paid. It must ensure that all public authorities and public institutions involved act in this manner in a coordinated manner and ensure full legal protection for employees. If this country is unable to provide it, it must assume its responsibility and responsibility to exercise the rights of employees. Since all these questions have not yet been clarified, and the answers have not yet been given to you, Mr Finance Minister, and to work, I ask: How will the State ensure that the legal and social security of employees for whom it turns out that the employer has not paid social security contributions for them? Is it possible to expect proposals to amend legislation to deal with these issues? What laws and when? When will the records of paid contributions be established to allow for the simultaneous control of the payments made by individual insurers for all employees and the total salaries paid, especially for individual employees, and in the event of default, for timely action? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u65	Thank you very much. First of all, the Minister of Finance. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u66	Thank you very much for that question. It is true that the Slovenian public was legitimately upset by the information which also came to the public regarding the implementation of legislation in this area. Legislation as such is still quite appropriate in this respect, but implementation and system-wide arrangements are far from what can be expected. As you know, the Tax Procedure Act, in Article 18, guarantees that every insured person has the right to receive, even when this tax withdrawal is withdrawn, data from the tax withdrawal account must also be provided to him, but this is in principle done, but I cannot provide you today if this information is actually obtained by every insured person. This is related to Article 399 of the Law on the Tax Procedure of the New Law, which was adopted by this State Assembly following a very fast procedure last April. In its Article 399, the State undertakes that it must create such a database so that the taxable person can obtain a calculation and can always determine in the tax administration whether all these funds have actually been paid to him. For this reason, legislators were aware that there is one problem here, but we have written down the law in Article 399 and have given the tax administration time until 2010 to do so. This is completely unacceptable, according to our assessment, it really makes no sense. The Ministry of Finance will do its utmost to allow the tax administration to monitor the fulfilment of the obligations individually after the debtor before the statutory deadline thus set. Then there's Article 20. However, Article 20 of the Tax Procedure Act provides that when the tax authority finds that it is not being paid, it must recover this from the taxpayer with the corresponding interest. Not only has the tax procedure law changed, but the Constitutional Court's regulation on this has also emerged and this problem has arisen. The problem is that information technology was not exposed in time to make all these changes possible, although the Ministry of Finance was aware that there were problems, but we did not know, and we only learned that when it came through the media, that the forms entered into the hands. We knew there was trouble. As far as execution is concerned, the data showed that 28% of what happened in previous years fell, in the first four months, that something strange was happening there, that it was working, and we didn't know. What can I tell you today? As soon as I was aware of that, I called a meeting with the Director-General. She has prepared a comprehensive report. I was not entirely satisfied with this and we agreed that it was complemented by concrete measures [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u67	Mr. Minister, I'm just warning you that you and the Minister have five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u68	We got this a few days ago. We have also adopted the expert services of the twelve measures proposed by the Director-General. However, I can report to you that 74% of the system's contributions have already been entered by 1.6. It is also stated in this report that by the end of July an update of the entry of all data will be established. The tax administration has therefore acted. Right now, by the end of the month, we'll have this update highlighted. As for the legislation itself, as you know, there is currently an expert group working on amendments to the tax procedure law. This is also the issue on the agenda and we are working on it. If there are any shortcomings in the legislation on its own, we will also pass on these proposals [[...]] [[Warning signal.]] [[... ...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] to amend this legislation. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Since I assume that this is in the interests of the Member of Parliament, I will give Mr Drobnič two minutes for an additional explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u70	Thank you very much. Just for a little while. The employer responsible for the accounting and payment of the contributions of the insured person shall be responsible for the payment of such contributions from the gross wage. The employer shall, at each payment, give an account sheet showing all the contributions charged. If there are none of these, then it is the worker’s duty to ask why this did not happen. Then he can also turn to work inspection and work inspection, and he is also provided with a judicial route. With regard to payments and due regard to the insurance period, the law on pension and disability insurance also speaks of Article 192, which states that an employee is considered to have an insurance period even during the period during which the employer has charged contributions for compulsory insurance against the insured person's salary but has not paid them. If the employer has not accounted for the contributions, then the worker must, when he sees on the invoice sheet that this has not been carried out, require him to account and pay his contributions as well. Otherwise, he was agreeing to it. Records of paid social security contributions shall be kept with employers, in which case, according to the amount of paid employers' salaries, the employer shall account for a contribution corresponding to the rate of contribution paid for each worker who has received a salary within a given month. Otherwise, we foresee the adoption of a law on labour records, which is a government commitment already this year to prevent abuses and ensure order in this area. Besides, he's been preparing this marriage, and I think it's been a couple of years, and I don't know, [[..]] [[Warning signal.]] [[.....]] [[Incomprehensible.]] Why, in fact, the previous government has not made much effort and has indeed prepared this law. [[...]] It is our obligation, and we will also fulfil this year's Labour Records Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mr. Potch, would you like to complete the answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u72	Thank you very much. I thank both ministers. I would and will be pleased if the precise information provided by Minister Dr Bayuk that we will be in due time, and not just on June 30th, but on July 15th, we will be assured of full information on which contributions, from which employers are being paid or not. And I'm counting on it to be like I asked, for employers and for employees. In short, it will be possible to control, not only who paid, and recover, if he did not pay, but also who he pays for. In this part, I will see to it that, in spite of the importance of the subject, the Minister himself informs the Members and the public that this has been done so that I will ask again in the autumn. As regards the reply of the Minister of Magi. Let me put it this way. I would not want to understand him in such a way that excessive and unrealistic responsibility is left to the employee. I would like to see legislation drawn up in a way that does not burden the employer who is not to blame. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] I would ask that any future changes that go in the direction of this principle also ensure. [[...]] It's different, of course, if that's not what the employee wants. But if he's registered, if he's got an application, if he knows he's busy, then he can probably reasonably expect contributions to be paid for. It cannot be to blame if it was not able to verify on the invoice sheet whether it was charged or not. I'd like to ask you to [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] I can understand you in this way and there will be changes in this direction. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Let me just warn you that both ministers have three more minutes together.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u74	I hope you didn't get me wrong. The fact is that the tax administration today does not have an information system to provide and provide every insurer with that key information as to how much money has been transferred to its account. What Article 399 of the Tax Procedure Act actually wanted to ensure, but by 2010, it is necessary to do so. This isn't gonna be done this year. This, however, I assure you, because this means a big change and also a big investment in information technology, which has not yet been made. As far as the key question is concerned. It is true that tax legislation foresees how enforcement must be implemented, and this is, I hope, with this urgency, that the tax administration will also be able to implement these things. However, the question of who is finally responsible is not clear, even though enforcement does not contribute to all these resources, who is finally responsible. In this respect, I assure you that the proposals for amending legislation at the tax level, as regards the tax procedure law, will certainly address this issue and will also bring about a solution. But I agree in principle with you that this is [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u75	It's been half the time, Mr. Secretary. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u76	the ultimate responsibility of the State. [[...]] We also have a legal obligation to execute. If that's not the case, he can't finally be guilty of insurance. This will have to be resolved in some way, but there is a legal void in this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u77	You've only got a minute left, Minister Petty Officer. A little more.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u78	In this direction, when you think, of course, we also design new changes, those necessary changes, so that this burden would not be imposed on workers who are less learners, are less familiar. I think that's a good thinking and we'll work in this direction.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u79	Thank you very much. I invite Dr. Matthew Lahovnik to ask the Minister of Transport a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Honourable Presidents, honourable Members, Members. My question concerns works on Slovenian roads and motorways. I ask, Minister of Transport, Janez Bozič: Do you estimate that traffic flows between April and September are appropriate on sections of Slovenian motorways and roads where various reconstruction works take place? Of course, I'm not only asking you as Minister of Transport, I'm also asking you as former Prime Minister of Dars because I believe you know the problem. I ask you in particular because I am also being approached by various voters and voters, and they see as I do that if you go from northeast Slovenia to the sea, not only do you run into a whole range of toll stations that are said to make sense on the UmAR and that the blames are not meaningful and there are significant traffic congestions from this title. Moreover, even where the highway is being rebuilt, it is often observed that three, four kilometers [4 km] of the highway is being replaced by a fence at 10 metres. I can give you a concrete example of the restoration of this fence at the tunnel Jesovnik between the Trojans and Vranski, where this process of reconstruction took place for several days and the highway was closed in a significant part at a significantly longer section than would have been necessary. If you're driving from Prekmurje to Primorsko, you'll find a whole bunch of these. Slovenian drivers seem to be moving from one barricade to another and that it is somehow part of that Slovenian tourist password "Slovenia revives" by somehow releasing additional adrenaline into the blood. So I'm actually asking you: Is there really anything you can do to make the traffic flow significantly higher on Slovenian transport axes? I believe that what we are currently looking at, especially in the April-September season, is in fact not an optimal solution if we are looking from an organisational point of view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u82	Thank you very much for the question of the Member of Parliament, Dr. Lakhovnik. First of all, I would answer in the work that Dars is responsible for as an operator for maintenance and management of motorways. Dars, as for many years in the past, plans to make the most of the reconstruction work so that it is not carried out between 1.7. and 1.9. Therefore, road congestion at this time does not depend on reconstruction works that are not carried out, but mainly on the permeability of the road network. During the period from April to 30.6. Dars performed and is still performing reconstruction works on several sections of the existing motorway network. In planning both the reconstruction works and the type of prison, Dars has already requested tender documentation and has also provided contracts to ensure that works are carried out all the days of the week, including on Saturdays, Sundays and holidays, usually all the bright part of the day, as well as all the work done continuously 24 hours a day. The planning of the prison shall be designed and implemented by prisons which ensure that there are no congestions at a certain section or which, according to technical options, ensure the maximum possible traffic failure. With these measures, we have achieved that this year, due to the reconstruction works we do not practically record, I do not know how many major traffic congestions have occurred, except recently in Dolenjska, where the prison has caused major traffic congestion across the Mountain, but it has not been possible otherwise. I think the work on rebuilding the old part of this fast road will be finished even before the deadline. Therefore, only at the most critical sections has travel time increased minimally at the time of the largest traffic points. For example, a particular western Ljubljana bypass from nothing to five minutes, and Ivančna gorica, for example, from five to ten minutes. These are the concrete results of the measurements. I would also like to say that special measures are being implemented, two plus two, when we narrow the motorway into two lanes and thus achieve the right traffic flow in some way. Unfortunately, it only takes time for reconstruction work. I would also like to say that in the past there has been very little money devoted to maintaining built motorways, so this intensity has increased in recent years and has been urgently needed, as many facilities have been in very poor condition, even dangerous to cause major problems. On the basis of this, I can argue that the flow of traffic is relatively good or not possible to improve during the recovery work. In the area covered by national roads, the Slovenian Directorate for Roads is also working to achieve as much as possible this year before the start of the main tourist season and will continue from September to the end of the tourist season. All regular, essential maintenance works such as grass baskets, fence repairs, machine patching and the like will be completed in the main traffic directions by the end of June. But we will continue with the parts, as I mentioned earlier in September. At the end of the tourist season, this is the month of July and August, on the busiest roads of the state road network there will be no major prisons or obstacles due to reconstruction and maintenance works. The essential maintenance work will also be carried out only outside the transport lines, so as not to interfere with traffic. Unfortunately, all temporary obstacles will not be avoided this year, as part of investment maintenance will also be carried out on some sections of state roads in July and August. One of the reasons for changing the start-up and completion deadlines is also the rebalance to ensure the late conclusion of the contracts. This also depends on the performance of the work on main and regional roads. This is mainly the case for the execution of works where operators have already been selected, but until the approval of the proposal for a state budget rebalancing could not be signed, especially when the condition was for the contracts to be signed. The issue of traffic flow at toll stations. I must say that we have also requested an additional extension of the toll stations to those where the burden is greatest last year, and some of these works are already being carried out and some of them will continue this year. That way, we'll secure some maximum that's possible. Thank you so much for asking.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Dr. Lakhovnik, supplemental.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u84	Thank you very much for your answer. Dear Mr. Secretary! In a way, I have also pointed out what we have warned about in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Based on the fact that, for the first time, the rebalancing was adopted late. I'm glad there's a financial minister in the Chamber, so he can hear it. And secondly, for state highways, 6 billion less and 2 billion less for other roads. That is why I am also concerned, given that the funds are largely limited, how this will affect the flow of investment works. That some of the works have moved to the summer season, but that is a fact and we are aware of it. We're sorry it's probably happened to all of us. As for some other claims, I must say that I do not fully agree with this opinion they have on Dars. Not as a driver, but at least everyone who listens to Val 202 can hear every Friday what delays arise, say against Styriak, against Primorska. Maybe it's a good thing that they'll drive off on their own and actually see. I can assure you firsthand because I drive through the tunnel Jesovnik every day. Work was not carried out this afternoon or to a substantially smaller extent. At night, nothing happened when traffic was the smallest. I think it's possible to organize that works take place in a number of shifts. It's not just that, or all the days of the week, even how many changes. It is crucial that they are carried out when the traffic is the smallest, since this then has the least impact on traffic flow. I personally assess and I am sure that this is not the case and that there are still many reserves and that Slovenian drivers would appreciate this, and there would be fewer traffic accidents. Because, as I said before, it only triggers extra adrenaline. [[...]] [[a warning sign for the end of the debate.]] There is dissatisfaction in drivers and from this point of view, which also affects traffic safety. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u85	Dr. Lahovnik, for the next time, I have a duty to remind you that under the Rules of Procedure you have the opportunity to request a supplement to the answer, but not to complete the question or to complete your comment yourself. Please, let's stick to this. Just a supplement to the deal, but you've already polymated. Is there anything you'd like to add, Mr. Secretary?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u86	Thank you for the additional assessment of Mr. Lakhovnik. With regard to the failure on Slovenian motorways and state roads, I would say that this problem has been significantly greater in the past and has been mitigated by various measures. But I don't think it's going to be possible to completely avoid congestion. The assessment is that much more needs to be done to the operators' visas, so that we will further tighten the controls in the future and, above all, by a greater and stronger commitment within the framework of the contracts, require consistent compliance that the intensity of work in the afternoon and night work is significantly higher. My assessment is that it is essential that this rhythm of reconstruction is not carried out during the tourist peaks, but that it is only at the time available: it is late in summer and, of course, in autumn until winter. You all know that asphalt can't lie down when the temperature drops below 4 degrees. That's how we use what's possible. I think that there have been no critical weekends this year, and I also expect that there will be more congestion at the toll stations where tourists can expect, and of course also abroad, if we travel on foreign highways and roads, very much present. I would not list all those critical large six-bands that are in the area of France, Germany and so on, where there are several-time congestions, and I do not think that this is as exhibited as it is in the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u87	Only procedurally possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u88	Of course, of course. Thank you, Mr. President, for your warning. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 246, I ask that a debate be held on the response of the Minister of Transport, in particular in the part in which he himself mentioned that the rebalancing also makes the volume of funds less than the amount envisaged. According to my calculations, highways amounting to 6 billion less, for state roads 2 billion less. Due to this limitation of resources, we can expect a significantly smaller dynamic of calls, which I believe will also affect the flow of the Slovenian road and highway network and traffic safety. In view of the fact that this concerns all citizens and not least foreign tourists, I propose that the debate in this regard be held, as I said, because I am not fully satisfied with the answer and, in my opinion, is lacking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u89	Thank you very much. In accordance with the previous decision or announcement, we shall vote on this proposal in accordance with the 10th item of the agenda. I now invite Mr Sam Bevik to ask the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u90	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! In January this year, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopted an amendment to the asbestos law, which we sent to Parliamentary Procedure with colleague Bredo Pečan. In addition to restructuring companies, the main purpose of the 1996 basic law was to ensure social security and the necessary resources for workers and residents exposed to the effects of asbestos dust. The law allowed workers to obtain an insurance period for retirement and payment of settlement or compensation to patients with asbestos. The expiry of the Law on 31 December 2004 resulted in a legal void, which the National Assembly had approved by adopting the aforementioned Act and extending its validity until the end of this year. Thus, it was no longer questionable to draw EUR 692 million for the purchase of the retirement and payment period already provided for in the budget for this year. The government has supported this amendment of the law and it is all the more unacceptable and surprising that it has reduced this item by 262 million tolars in the 2005 budget rebalancing. Asbestos was exposed to about 23,000 workers. Due to the very long latent period until the outbreak of one form of asbestos disease, experts predict that the peak of disease in Slovenia will be expected around 2025. In addition, the harmful effects of asbestos dust are also exposed to populations in endangered areas. Last December, the government, by a special decision, commissioned the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs to prepare a proposal for a new law on asbestos issues in Slovenia on the basis of guidelines and baselines prepared by the special inter-ministerial working group by the second quarter of 2005. Minister Mag. So I ask Janez Drobnič: When will they prepare a new marriage, and at what starting points will he be prepared? I thank the Minister in advance for his reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u91	Mr. Secretary, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u92	Thank you so much for asking. On professional grounds and on the basis of international comparisons, the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs has drawn up a text of a law which has already been transmitted to an interest group representing workers who have been affected by asbestos substances in any way. This text of the law has already been transmitted to inter-departmental coordination. At the same time, you were probably also informed through the media that the Economic and Social Council had considered the text on 17 June and had in some sense agreed to such a text of the law, with some corrections. We anticipate that the law will go into the adoption process in accordance with the annual plan of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for 2005. So the government will now be sent to the reception and then to the procedure of the National Assembly. In short, we have prepared it on professional grounds and have also included the social partners and stakeholders in the drafting of this text.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Would you like to complete the question? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u94	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Of course, because I also asked the Minister what the starting points of this law would be if he could speak more substantively, not only did they prepare this draft law on the basis of the starting points drawn up by the Interdepartmental Group. First of all, I am interested in the fact that asbestos exposure damages are only developing in Europe. For the time being, they are largely limited to occupational exposure, but there is always a requirement for damage caused by diagnosis of the disease, which is primarily addressed by a group of people, namely workers who have been exposed to production. However, the trend is also moving towards compensation liability, even in the case of non-professional or environmental exposure. So people who live around such production; especially, say, the Sokka Valley is such an example, Anhovo and so on. Indeed, the Netherlands has already awarded its first non-professional exposure compensation in May 2003. That this is indeed a major problem, the European Union directive also bears witness [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] , which on 1 January 2005 required that the use of asbestos be eliminated everywhere. [[...]] Recent studies suggest that in Europe, in the 20s and 30s of the following years, as a result of exposure to asbestos, as many as 250,000 people die, according to one estimate and half a million others. That's a big problem. I would therefore ask: Is there anything else you can say about this material pay, especially about the environmental exposure of the population? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u95	Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u96	Thank you very much for the supplementary question. Since there was little time, I didn't go into the content of the law. In particular, I would like to highlight three areas or areas of difficulty in how this law will address this issue and also address it. So, the compensation responsibility of the one who caused the disease, that's in the first place. Where it is no longer possible to determine or request it, because it may have gone bankrupt, then enter into this relationship, the State shall assume this responsibility or obligation in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, as in other countries. This includes residents, although they were not employed by the employer himself. Because we know that the impact has sometimes gone beyond the courtyards and will be defined in some sense also in the radios where these effects have occurred and, of course, in this regard also the possibility of carrying out medical checks and all those procedures that are necessary to identify and then a compensation liability is imposed on the basis of this. Then it's also a matter of occupational illness. However, as regards occupational diseases and the list of physical defects, I can mention that this list needs to be recast. This has been the subject of interviews a few years ago, and I am sure that we will also find so many professional initiatives and unity that there will be an appropriate movement forward and that we will provide an appropriate basis for physical impairment and occupational diseases, not only for these cases, but also for many others, also in accordance with EU directives, which we are now a member of. I hope you're satisfied with the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Let's move on. Mr Minister of Transport will be asked a question by the Member of Parliament, Dr Marko Pavlich. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u98	Thank you very much twice, Mr. Vice President. First for the word, second for the nice replacement. Nice greetings to ministers, fellow Members and Members from this part of the Chamber as well. I don't want to favor any of the media, but I do have to mention an article published in Finance on 3 June entitled "The Weird Incentivisation of Darsa Investments," because the article inspired me on my question, and that's probably the right thing to say. In fact, the article states that in the past there have been some overstatements of investment values, it specifically refers to two motorway sections, namely Trojane-Blagovica and Klanec-Ankaran, clearly compared to the resolution on the national programme on the construction of motorways, which we or at that time cannot speak to in the 1st person of plural, which you adopted last February. This is a 36 million-euro increase, or 8.3 billion tolar increase. Therefore, I ask the Minister of Transport first: "Why did these auctions occur? The second part of my question is: How will he establish control of Darsa, not least, so that these imitations will not occur? As the minister probably remembers alive, that was the first time we met, that was the end of last April, and I was, like, a few days only a minister, we both solemnly signed two contracts, and one of them was an agent contract to carry out tasks related to the construction and reconstruction of motorways, which accurately defines the supervisory function of two administrative authorities, namely the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Transport. I therefore wonder: At what stage is this project, i.e. the final appointment of professional services involved in such supervision at the Ministry of Transport? I thank you very much for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u99	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u100	Thank you so much for saying that. Thank you for asking Dr. Pavlich. With regard to the auctions you listed on the Trojane-Blagovica motorway and Klanec-Ankaran, which are shown in the 2005 annual highway development programme, I must say that they have occurred due to the objective circumstances which I would like to present to you here briefly. First, at the section at Klancu-Ankaran there was a change in the investment value due, firstly, to the changes in the anti-aircraft protection project, which was necessary for the absolute safety of the users of the motorway as well as to ensuring the functionality of the motorway itself. In 2002, additional continuous measurements of wind speeds, horizontal and vertical wind suns were carried out on already built vertical pillars. These measurements gave a completely different picture than the projected wind load of the project. That our decision was correct shows the fact that viaduct Black Kal has not yet been closed since its opening due to the storm. It is not like in the world to mention, as an example, the bridge across the Masleni Canal in Croatia, which is closed more than 15 times a year because of the storm. Second of all, because of the extensive complementarity of construction technologies. You know that viaduct Black Kal is the largest construction achievement of the Slovenian construction operation and that here the most modern construction methods have been used, which due to their complexity, as well as the weather and technological conditions, were required to complement and adapt them. One such intervention was the changed technology for wind-consoled coupling and the acquisition of additional console tables, which, of course, was not envisaged in the call for works. Thirdly, an additional archaeological site in the Schools, which, of course, had to be protected in accordance with the conditions of the Maltese Convention concerning the protection of cultural heritage. Furthermore, the implementation of tunnel equipment in accordance with the 2004 European Directive on minimum safety measures in tunnels on European roads, which our country is obliged to respect, has been adopted. Unfortunately, during the tendering period, the works had not yet been valid and Dars had no legal basis to include them in the tendering conditions. I can say that Dekana and Kastelec are the tunnel, and the same will be the tunnel of Trojana, equipped with the most modern equipment, as shown by the latest ADAC tests, both of which have been classified as the safest and most modern in Europe. As a result of that European Directive, emergency tunnel crossings are additionally installed in both tunnels, not only for intervention vehicles, but also for traffic diversions in the event of accidents, all in terms of maximum safety. Finally, I think it is right that Slovenia is also starting to introduce an intelligent traffic management system on our motorway sections, which is a perfectly normal thing in Europe. It is true that this cost was not foreseen in the national programme, but I think it is the right decision of the transport profession, which unanimously decided to build a so-called smart highway on the Styrian and coastal highways. I am convinced that we Slovenians have thus proved that we are equal to the most developed European countries in transport technology: the Netherlands, Germany, Denmark. This is also recognized by foreign experts. I now predict that such a technological system of traffic management will need to be put in place on the whole of the country's motorway system, which was not foreseen in the national programme for the construction of motorways. As far as Vransko-Blagovica section is concerned, changes in investment value are due to the following causes: firstly, geological problems and problems and thus modified support measures in the left tunnel tube of the Troyna tunnel. You know that mining work in the tunnel was interrupted for more than 4 months due to additional remedial measures to be carried out to calm the hill. Secondly, as at the previously described coastal highway section, we have also built on this section a so-called smart highway, which you can see, honourable Members and Members coming from the Styrian direction. Also, as has already been said, the equipment of the Troyan tunnel, which will be the longest Slovenian tunnel, will be built in accordance with the already mentioned Directive on road tunnel safety. This means that the maximum possible traffic safety of its users will be ensured in this tunnel. I believe that this increased investment value is €36 million, as far as we have increased the value of both motorway sections in the annual development plan, namely Klanec-Ankaran, Trojane-Blagovica, which are both technically and financially the most difficult motorway section in the national programme, usefully invested in both investments. And I am sure that because of all the reasons and reasons and measures listed above, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] to make the use of all sections of the motorway safer, more functional and, in particular, more user-friendly. [[...]] I would add that these increases were confirmed in investment programmes and are still still below the value of the national programme in 1998 and have been reduced or reduced in last year's national highway construction programme without taking account of these changes and the implementation of corrective measures on projects.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u101	Mr Minister [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u102	I owe you another piece of the answer. I apologize. I don't think I've taken full advantage of this before, so you're [[...]] So, as regards the issue of the supervision of the Ministry of Transport over Dars, I can tell you, Commissioner, that the supervision is carried out in accordance with the so-called Agency Treaty, which you have mentioned and which you have also signed as former Minister and this month - so I have signed instructions on the implementation of this control already in May and on the documentation that Dars must submit to the Ministry of Transport in accordance with this Treaty and on the basis of which the Ministry of Transport will report on the implementation of the works. As you know, on the basis of this agency contract, the Ministry of Finance also supervises the implementation of Darsa in addition to the Supervisory Board and the Court of Auditors, in the form of additional control over the use of funds from the State budget, while the supervision of the Ministry of Transport includes, in particular, a comprehensive control of the compliance of individual investments in the construction of the motorway compared to the documents adopted. At present, the Ministry’s professional services, i.e. the Directorate of Roads and Legal Services, are also preparing a decision to appoint this interdisciplinary working group of the Ministry of Transport, which will also exercise control over the implementation of individual projects under the national programme by the company for motorways, in accordance with the Agency’s contract. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Would you like some extra?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u104	Actually, it's because the minister is a red-figured minister, which is what I said in addition, what I wanted to ask him, so at this stage, I thank him for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mr Mag will ask the next question. The Minister of Justice, who is absent. You want to ask a question?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u106	Thank you very much. The question I intend to ask the Minister of Justice has been put down twice because of the Minister's absence, and I am asking him today because I expect to receive a reply next time and which I also want in writing. On 19 June 2003, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a position that the agreement with the Republic of Germany on the payment of intangible and material damage from World War II was not concluded and that the issue of the payment of material damage from World War II was still open to citizens. It also adopted two conclusions, appointing an Inter-Resort Commission to collect relevant data and prepare the basis or guidelines for the next steps taken by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to resolve this very pressing issue. So far, the Interdepartmental Commission, in which representatives of the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of the Economy, the Ministry of Labour, the Family, Social Affairs, the Ministry of Finance and the Foreign Ministry have met three times, as far as is commonly known, and has prepared or collected rich material on this subject. The Minister of Justice, who is appointed to lead this Interdepartmental Commission, I ask: Will and when will this Interdepartmental Commission continue its work? However, if she has already begun or continued her work, I am curious because it is not generally known: To what extent are her preparations going or to what extent should the Government of the Republic of Slovenia take steps to move this matter from a dead point? In doing so, I should point out that the beneficiaries do not mainly want to burden the Republic of Slovenia with the payment of war damage and that most of them mainly expect the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to open and reopen negotiations with the Republic of Germany for the payment of compensation that exceeds $6 billion and has never been paid. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u107	Thank you very much. It may be correct to say that if the Minister or Minister is absent and the Member does not explicitly request an oral reply at the next meeting, then the answer is automatically written. However, if expressly required, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the Minister will be obliged to explain or respond orally. I'd like you to turn off the microphone, Mr. Žnidaršič. It's a microphone. Thank you very much. The next on the list is Mr Rudolf Moge, who will ask the Minister for Higher Education, Science and Technology. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u108	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I'm dealing with a paradox of questions sent. I asked Prime Minister Janez Janša a question at one of the previous meetings. And I asked him, "What about the Bologna process?" And since he signed the appointment of the Higher Education Council and its president, Dr. Peter Jambrek, I asked him, "Is he abusing his position?" Does he exercise his personal interests? Are secret sessions such as to affect the bias of this world’s decisions? These questions were answered by Mr. Minister of Higher Education as if I were going to Delphe. I got the answer, but I have to say I don't get it. At the end of these questions, I apologize, Mr Prime Minister, who is also leading the Social Democratic Party, and who behind this stage roared against customerism - I apologize, Democratic Party, I have been in this assembly for a long time, but I am used to the previous dictatorship - I also asked him - because against customerism he roared, and as every day we see data about Members in almost all newspapers, whether they bought land or had such incomes and similar things - the following. In the Liberal Democracy, we believe that you will publicly support the proposal that members of the Council of Experts of the Democratic Party, which you have included in the Council of the Republic of Slovenia for Higher Education, make public their revenue generated in the last three years at Mr Jambrek's private school. I wrote this and expected an answer that would come true. However, because there was no answer, because this hot soup has been framed by the minister, who is said to be from another political option, I will now ask you, Mr Minister, I hope that Mr Prime Minister will then answer me - there is a paradox. I ask you, Mr. Minister: Why did you not respond to our initiative and request the publication of the earnings of all the prominent members of the SDS, pardon, Democratic Party, and the Higher Education Council, which teaches at Mr. Jambrek's private school, which is the President of the Higher Education Council and the most visible ideologist of the SDS? Dear Minister, since Mr Janša does not wish to answer my question, I ask you: When will you publish the earnings of these gentlemen? Why are you hiding their profits in the government? Are they too tall? And I think it would be more than hygienic for the public to publish this information. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u109	Thank you. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u110	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Thank you very much, distinguished Member, Mr. Mogue. I don't think my answer will satisfy you. One is that we must respect legality, and I am the first to do so. The fact is that the Faculty of Postgraduate and European Studies is a private higher education institution and its activities are not financed by public funds and therefore there is no review of their merits by the Ministry. If that's what we really want, then I can't formally influence them because I don't have any interference with them, and I don't have this data. The second question that I think you raised in principle is whether I personally agree with your question. I think I have no problems with this personally and would publish my earnings data, but that is why I cannot influence anyone else, because I believe that ethics is in principle a matter of every individual and, at the time that it becomes a rule, is no longer ethics, but it is an obligation. So, of course, I agree with you that if anyone thinks that anything is wrong, they can ask, and then these people will tell you what the profits are. On the other hand, profit in private business is a matter of complete privacy, private data and, of course, it is up to them whether or not they will give it. I hope, as far as I can explain, you're pleased. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u111	Mr. Mogue, would you like to complete the answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u112	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We witnessed another dolphin’s response, and Piti would be delighted to hear it. That's why I say, Mr. Minister, I didn't ask you that question when I asked it, and that's the paradox. Given the dispersal of all other things in this national assembly, the ugly things that have happened and have been somehow proof that there is customerism in our country, I have asked the Prime Minister only - in the Liberal Democracy we believe that you will publicly support the proposal without asking. We are aware of the personal data law that we cannot ask you not to do so from the Prime Minister, but we have called him publicly, in view of what he said before the elections, to support the proposal that the members of the SDS Professional Council, which he has included in the Council of the Republic of Slovenia for Higher Education, with that decision or whatever this act is already called, publish publicly their revenues which have been generated in the last three years at Mr Jambrek's private school. That is all, and there is a paradox in this, and I expect, with regard to the public, at least political hygiene and the promises made to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u113	Minister, have you answered the supplementary question or what is the need to complete the answer? Thank you very much. I ask once again if the question can also be further formulated to make it easier to answer. Otherwise, there are seven more questions ahead of us, and I would like to list them so that you will know when you will arrive, namely, Han, Lavtišar-Bebler, Juri, Horvat, Zalokar, Orazem, Saiovic and Klavor. I invite Mr Matjaž Han to ask the Minister of Finance a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u114	Thank you so much for saying that. Honourable Vice-President, Honourable Ministers, Honorable Assembly. The 7th regular meeting of the National Assembly is open to the refugees of the work so far, instead of starting the meeting with questions, and after eight working days we conclude with them. The question that I raised 14 days ago is almost no longer relevant, or I note that, Madam Minister, perhaps it was my very question that raised a quicker solution to the complication you caused by delaying the signature of the guarantee to the already approved loan from the European Investment Bank. The government also took care of the dissatisfaction, which dealt with the national location plan for Blanca hydroelectric power plant later than we expected. Construction of electricity facilities on the lower Sava is the strategic direction of Slovenia, as we will provide the necessary electricity by completing the chain of five power plants over the next decades. At the local level, which covers the Radeče, Sevnica, Krško and Brežice municipalities, investments in the accompanying infrastructure provide flood safety, the freeing of spatial reservations enables the proper development of the infrastructure and, for this area, enables economic development. I am aware that the construction of the hydroelectric system is technically and financially very demanding, and I am also convinced that we have sufficient potential in the Slovenian construction sector to build quality facilities with appropriate infrastructure. I asked myself, ‘ What were the reasons for this? ’ Did you want to show what power you have as a finance minister, or was it because of your current mood? Therefore, I would like you to present arguments that may justify your behaviour in delaying the guarantee's signature to the approved loan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u115	Thank you. Dr. Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u116	Thank you very much for your question. In fact, the question that you have formulated in writing is somewhat different, but it is only a good opportunity to explain certain irregularities and inaccuracies that have occurred in the public. There is no doubt that the development of hydropower plants in the lower Sava has its basis in the law, namely in two, and that this is a real project, as you have assessed it, of strategic importance for Slovenia, but anyone with the responsibilities of a finance minister would also act if faced with such inconsistencies as regards the implementation of this legislation. The key feature of this project is that the entire financial structure was made on the basis of the principle that it would be covered through concessions. Of course, if temporary financing is required, this law also provides for it. Inadequacy by the Slovenian Power Plant Holding regarding its own financial plans, as well as inconsistencies or irregularities in all parts related to the Sava hydroelectric power plant, required that the Government finally adopt three key decisions at its last meeting. Firstly, Holding the Slovenian Power Plants must present to the Government within 60 days at the latest a comprehensive medium-term financial plan of its operation, which will include all investments in progress and planned investments and the own revenues and revenues of all related companies. The second conclusion is that the Ministry of Environment and Space and the Ministry of Economy, in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, shall examine the possibility of financing investments for the management of water infrastructure and state and local infrastructure in the influential area of energy exploitation of the Lower Sava in a manner that will ensure, in accordance with legislation, that this is covered solely by the revenues of the relevant concession resources. There is also ambiguity in marriage itself. As you know, the law stipulates that the concession must be at least 7%, but in fact the financial plans were made in a different way. On the one hand, 15% of the concession fee for these and on the other hand, the financial plan of the holding company, which foresees only 7%. Here was a gap that would have to be clarified. Finally, all those works that are not included in this programme, but have been agreed in some way, and at local level, must be coordinated by the Ministry of Environment and Space, the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Economy by the end of July and present to the government a proposal for a decision on financing the implementation of state and local water infrastructure and that these should be covered in accordance with their programmes. As far as the so-called guarantee is concerned, I need to clarify some of the inaccuracies in your question. The fact is that E and B have not yet approved the loan, but have informed the Slovenian government in writing, in accordance with the procedures, that they are willing to finance it. As responsible on behalf of the Slovenian Government, as Governor of this bank, in which Slovenia is a member, I also spoke with the head of this bank at the Assembly held in Belgrade a few weeks ago and there is no delay here. The only thing is that there is a lot of nervousness, which has also occurred in Slovenian media, in order to do things quickly without really explaining things. I hope that's explained. There's also a mistake in the matter. It's not about two power plants, but three: the first one is the Sheep, and it's not related to the Lower Sava. Preparations for the financing of two additional projects are included: Blanca and Krka. As far as Krskov is concerned, I must tell you that on the basis of the information we have received from the Ministry of Economy, the current programme is not yet correct in this sense. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] The data show that the current value of this project is negative and that it is not a finance minister or should not be a national assembly to adopt such a project. [[...]] This, of course, does not mean that it will be drawn, but that engineers will have to re-examine it and align it with the financial possibilities of the project itself. The project is still at "prescrib" level, but it does not care because we have until 2008 to be able to do so. So no delay, no problem. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u117	Time's up, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u118	The initiation will be ensured. [[...]] As far as Blanca and the Sheep are concerned, because obviously on the basis of data that is incomplete by the Holding of Slovenian Power Plants, I was able to find today that they have sufficient resources to carry out these two projects but not to continue. When there is a clear picture, I will certainly be able to report this matter to this national assembly, but for now I do not think you should be too concerned, things will be done and done in a rational way, in accordance with the law, as I hope you expect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u119	I remind again of the time, and I ask the ministers when they answer that they can take a bit of a tact, because they can then say what they have to say in an additional explanation in two minutes. Mr. Han, extra.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, thank you very much for your comprehensive response. But this is what I'm going to say about my concern. You know I come from the Radeče municipality, where one of the chains of hydroelectric power plants is, and we've been having problems with this system for a number of years. And I have asked you 21.3. a question on the implementation of the concession contract and the equalisation of the concession from 7 to 10%. At that time, you told me that you would be interested in this matter and that you would be able to resolve it quickly. Months are running away, we haven't received any answers in Radice, and that's why there's so much concern about this problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Minister, you want a word? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u122	I have some supplementary information myself. I am aware of the fact that this part of Slovenia has been the subject of a promise for at least 20 years. In some ways, however, I reject this concern, as far as the current government is concerned, that it should be resolved within a few weeks. I think we are all committed to working on the basis of rationality and also of law. Unless it can be proved that Holding Slovenian Power Plants does not have sufficient resources, then this must be resolved in a different way. Different holding companies, which are 100% state-owned, must get used to not being state-owned and have to report and that transparency of their business is a prerequisite for us to continue working. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Let's keep asking questions. It is the turn of Ambassador Dara Lovtijar Bebler, who will raise the question to the two ministers, namely the Minister of Transport and the Minister of Defence.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u124	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen! A few days ago, the media announced that the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Transport and Dars had completed a project to purchase six fire-fighting vehicles for rescue in highway tunnels. The project is, of course, commendable, but this raises the question of what criteria are used in the allocation of these vehicles. The acquisition of vehicles is financed by Dars and allocated to voluntary fire brigades or fire brigades designated for intervention in the event of accidents in motorway tunnels by the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia. On 9 May 2005, a special fire-fighting vehicle in tunnels was also handed over to the voluntary fire-fighting company Postojna for intervention in the event of accidents in the unbuilt tunnels of Tabor-Slatina and Barnica at Podnanos. It should be noted, however, that the firefighter company Jesenice, for example, has not yet received such a vehicle for possible intervention in our longest highway tunnel in Caravanka. The Karavanka tunnel is a one-pronged two-band tunnel and, as such, it is more dangerous and difficult to solve in the event of a possible accident; not to talk about how to solve this tunnel, say, in tourist peaks or at larger holidays, when traffic is very dense there. For this reason, I ask ministers the following questions: Who is running a project to purchase special fire trucks for rescue in highway tunnels? What is the average price of special fire trucks purchased so far, and how much money has Dars already made available for their purchase? How have the current recipients of these vehicles been identified? Could the tendering institute be used? What are the professional criteria used to determine the recipients of these vehicles? Why is it still not available for possible intervention in the event of an accident in the tunnel of Karavanka for a modern special fire-fighting vehicle in the tunnels? How much less is the safety of the users of the Karavanka tunnel due to this fact? What are the professional reasons on the basis of which a special fire rescue vehicle was purchased in the tunnels of a voluntary firefighter company Postojna for intervention in the event of an accident in the non-existent tunnels of Tabor-Slatina and Barnica in Podnanos? What are the current recipients of special fire escape vehicles in tunnels and in which motorway tunnels in case of accidents do these receivers intervene? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u125	Thank you very much. The ministers will have to split up the comrades for five minutes. Who's gonna start? Mag. Christmas, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u126	Thank you so much for asking. On the basis of a 1996 decision by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on protection and rescue in road tunnels, the Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of Defence and Dars concluded an agreement in 1997 on co-financing under which Dars undertook to finance the acquisition of six special ambulances with related rescue equipment and resources under the criteria and standards set by the Directorate for Protection and Rescue. Procurement procedures under the rules applicable to public procurement were led by the Ministry of Defence, the Department of Protection and Rescue. The deployment of vehicles is also like the training of emergency services for full responsibility of the Ministry of Defence, Protection and Rescue. In order to purchase all six special vehicles, Dars has fully fulfilled his obligations of approximately 690 million tolar. This means that Dars currently has no obligation to co-finance protective and rescue equipment and to co-finance services that will provide protection and resolution in cases of tunnel accidents. That's my part of the answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u127	Thank you very much. And Minister Erjavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u128	First of all, I would like to thank the Member for the questions raised. In 1996, according to the highway construction programme, a project was developed to set up an organisation in case of accidents in longer motorway tunnels, except for the Karavanka tunnel, which was previously provided with an appropriate ambulance and plans. I wouldn't repeat what the minister has already said. Let me say that the contract value for the purchase of six ambulances is 689 million and the value of each vehicle is approximately 114 million. The funds were provided by Dars. All firefighting units taken over were taken over under the Regulation on the organisation, equipment and training of the security, rescue and rescue forces for technical rescue in the event of road traffic accidents [[This Regulation was adopted in 1999]] . For rescue in tunnels, they were determined according to organisational, location and technical suitability and according to the capacity of rescue workers. The last unit, this is the voluntary fire company Postojna, and the order for the allocation of ambulances was established by a plan for the implementation of the national programme of protection against natural and other disasters in 2005, by a decision of the Government on 10 February 2005. Vehicles shall not be divided on the basis of a call for tender, but on the basis of professional criteria, with each unit covering several tunnels. Some also from different sides, Celje, Postojna, Domžale. All designated fire brigades have been provided with basic training for tunnel rescue and use of dedicated vehicles, and appropriate contracts have also been concluded. With regard to your fifth question concerning the Karavanka tunnel, let me say that there was no Karavanka tunnel in the project, because the investor for the safe operation of the tunnel had to provide a special fire vehicle FV2 which was the Professional Fire Rescue Service, d.o.o., Jesenice, delivered in 1993 at the expense of the investor. The vehicle is a special ambulance, which was then and today suited to rescue in the tunnels. Similar vehicles are also used in most European countries for road rescue, including tunnels. There are no valid reasons for this vehicle to be replaced now. And the assessments of this year’s exercise also show that the readiness of the ministry in this tunnel is appropriate. The safety of tunnel users is therefore appropriate. One of the six vehicles was assigned to the Voluntary Fire Company Permanent to rescue in the tunnels of Tabor, Slatina and Colornice near Podnanos. Based on the assessment of the distance or speediest access to these tunnels, the competence, organisation and equipment of the fire department. This unit may also intervene in the event of an accident in the castle Kastelec and Dekani, and on the other hand these two tunnels are covered by the fire brigade Koper. According to experts' estimates, the Fire Department in Sežana has not been designated for intervention in the tunnels listed above and covers only a small tunnel in Sežana so far. Let me also list which fire brigades have received these dedicated rescue vehicles, namely the Voluntary Fire Company of Slovenske Konjice, the Public Fire Department of Celje, the Fire Department of Helios, the Gasilska brigade of Ljubljana and the Fire Brigade of Koper, as well as the already mentioned Voluntary Fire Company Postojna.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u129	Thank you. Member of the Commission. Complementary reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u130	I would ask Minister Erjavac if he could tell me who has accepted this assessment that the ability to rescue in the Karavanka tunnel is appropriate? In fact, I myself saw on TV Slovenia that the Chief of the fire brigade of Jesenica claimed that because they did not have such a special vehicle available, this brigade was less qualified there. In the event of an accident, it is expected that such a solution will be more difficult to implement. And you mentioned that the vehicle they got was 12 years old. Do you believe that this is true, that the vehicle is appropriate, while the firefighters claim otherwise? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Mr. Erjavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u132	Thank you for that additional question. Let me say that, with regard to who prepared this assessment, I will give an additional reply in writing, because I think it is right that you get thorough information on this exercise and on the evaluation. Let me say that, if the 1993 vehicle is appropriate, this is likely to be difficult for the Minister to respond to, and it is likely that this response will be transmitted as part of this assessment. However, let me say that in 2008 it will be complemented or re-checked by the national road construction programme, otherwise it is under the responsibility of the Minister, and that I will then propose that it be also determined whether a supplement is needed in this sense in order to ensure even greater security. As a minister, however, I have somehow felt that maximum security should be ensured.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Let's keep asking questions. It is the turn of Mr Aurelio Juri, who will raise the question to the absent Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u134	Thank you, Mr President, and I expect, of course, an oral response at the next meeting. Given the importance that the government has given to a joint working meeting with Croatian colleagues and colleagues in Briony, and in particular the new and better declaration on the avoidance of incidents, I ask the Minister: What did they actually agree on in this regard when only a good week after the prime ministers' hugs and promising statements and only two days after the operational talks of the interior ministers, who announced the even commendable joint patrolling of the land border, however, the incident took place? And this is not because of the behavior of civilians, such as the Umag fishermen or Mr. Yoko Joras - they are sometimes difficult to discipline - but as the Umag maritime police in the Gulf of Piran. Last night, it was also said that there was a reunion between Croatian police officers and Slovenian fishermen in the same bay. Since this happened, I'm guessing the statement was signed just like that, for a better impression. After all, I believe in the best faith of both, but without real effort, there will be no more trespasses by the state authorities. If the government were to record as a reference date, respect for the status quo on 25 June 1991, the Croatian side should commit itself that its patrol boats will not continue in the Gulf. Ours, however, is to stop the betrayal, such as the documents for construction operations on the outside of Dragonje, in order to start respecting 6a. Article of the Law establishing the Communities and determining their areas. I understand and regret that this has not happened and that you are still waiting at the limit of the day of uncertainty and tension. This makes me want to ask the Minister again if there are any ideas about how to eliminate this source of inconvenience, and let us hope that nothing more than this or how to reach an agreement on the border flow on land and sea. Compromise Drnovšek-Račan is also buried, in the opinion of our Minister, the new negotiations, I hear, are out of the question, the international arbitration or other binding intervention of the third does not show any favor to the Government. The automatic resolution of the problem, in the agreement of historians or in some peace conference on the split of the Adriatic, believes that the government and everyone who is serious does not believe in it. So the question is, How and when to make an agreement? If, frankly, what they did to the government and showed in the Briony, and if they were serious when they were predicting new times in each other, we should not wait for the answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u135	Thank you very much. And we also recorded your request for an oral response. I next give the floor to Mr Jožef Horvat, who will ask the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u136	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your opportunity. Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, distinguished ministers! Honourable Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Mag. Janez Petty Officer, I'm going to ask you my next question. In recent times, many news and newspaper articles have appeared with content regarding irregularities in the operation of some student services. More. According to the available data, it is possible for 15,000 Slovenian Tolars in Maribor to obtain a false certificate of student status and thus perform a student's work, which is obviously an abuse. On the other hand, we also read that some student services invest millions of amounts made on the basis of student work in capital portfolios. In New Slovenia we have a delicate, respectful and responsible attitude towards the student population, so we do not care how the scholarship policy improves, how the government of the Republic of Slovenia will increase the capacity of students' homes and thus improve the standard of students. Mr. Minister, I would like to ask you: How do you plan to address the anomalies and abuses that are present in the intervention of students? On the basis of the hard work of students, what measures do you intend to take to make money collected by student services for student activities and student needs? Students also say that you are not prepared to talk to them about your solutions. I wonder: Does it not seem important to establish a dialogue with the student organisation of Slovenia? Thank you very much for the answer, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. It's a trifle.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u138	Thank you very much for the question put by the Member States, which contains quite a few questions. We have already tackled these problems because we have also detected them through the labour inspectorate and through the announcements made by citizens, students and others. We have prepared the text of the law of amendments and the amendment of the law on employment and unemployment insurance also in this segment, i.e. the regulation of student work. We are aware of the many abuses of student work that have recently been a source of strength to read in the daily newspaper. Intervention of student work, which as a service in the public interest must not be profit-oriented, obviously brings the profits that student services then invest, as you yourself mentioned, into capital portfolios, instead of acting more rationally and using these funds for student purposes, to increase scholarships or something like that. That's what we're assuming. The funds to be collected in this way will be earmarked for the provision of more scholarships. We estimate, on the basis of this measure, that there will be an additional 4 to 5,000 scholarships. We are convinced that the redirection of part of the grant concessions funds is the best assurance that the funds will be received by those who really need them. I accepted the representatives of the student organisation on 20 May, which was very constructive. The student organisations agreed with some of the indications, as well as the direction of the increase in scholarships, also regarding concessions, how they are, in fact, left to owners for other purposes and fully agree that they need to be allocated for student needs. The Director-General of the Directorate-General for Employment and Labour Market also led the discussions, where they were also presented with the opportunity to receive part of the European Union programmes from student organisations themselves, which would improve their functioning. In fact, they're now getting money based on these concessions, but they're not counting on what they're making it for. On the basis of the changed way, however, this normal, normal business would take place, as is the case with other programme providers in the labour market, i.e. active employment policies, in order to determine the degree of achievement of the objectives and the appropriateness, cost-effectiveness and eligibility of spending of money for what they have also presented. With the changes that we have indicated and will be subject to amendments to the Employment and Insurance Act in the case of unemployment and some of the other sub-laws that we are preparing, we want to provide more scholarships, prevent abuse and complement the system of student labour intervention, so to speak, improve the system of student labour intervention, and not in any way as some have intended to display maliciously the interruption of student work and ensure intervention only at the Republic Employment Institute. No! No! Improve intervention to make it accessible to everyone. Why not also perform public service? Why not? And by doing so, we will also improve intervention in the employment institution and, of course, ensure student work for those who really need it, in order to provide social protection, but the student work must not go to the detriment of students in order to prevent their studies. The scholarship schemes, however, will ensure that they are also linked to the economy, that they will already carry out student practice during the course of the study, establish contacts with employers and that we will somehow meet those needs of employers who say they do not receive adequately trained labour, personnel, university graduates, universities and other educational institutions.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u139	Thank you very much, Minister. Would you like an additional reply, Mr. Member?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u140	No, I'm happy with the answer, so, Mr. Minister, thank you, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u141	Thank you very much. We have two more questions, the first is Mrs Cveta Zalokar Orazem, who will raise a question to the Minister for Home Affairs.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Nice hello to you all! Mr. Secretary of the Interior, Mr. Dragutin Mate! More and more recently, it has been heard and reads that in Slovenia we should set up a so-called judicial police, sort of like the U.S. FBI. It is intended to be supported by professional meetings by some prosecutors, and initiatives should also be favoured in the professional world of ruling parties. It was also confirmed by the Ministry of the Interior after the media wrote about it. Information is also being circulated in public about the people who are supposed to set up this institution and lead it in the future. This is supposed to be Mr. Darko Njavro, according to the media. The judiciary is a form of law enforcement, which is expected to change considerably in this area. It works alone and is separated from the police, i.e. the Ministry of the Interior, but it acts within the framework of the prosecution and the investigative judiciary, following the example of the criminal police. It also raises the question whether Slovenia is large enough and also has sufficient staff to crush law enforcement services, both to the criminal police and to the judicial police. The fact is, such services can work well together. But there is also a great danger of mutual competitiveness, rivalry and prestige. In view of the current situation, however, it can be estimated that significant inefficiencies in this area are also due to the lack of adequate and professionally qualified personnel. As Minister of the Interior, I therefore ask you: Are the information on the establishment of the judicial police correct? At what stage is the project mentioned? I also want to know: Which department is the project promoter? Who inside is in charge of his preparation? The second question is: What will be the jurisdiction of the judicial police? In what areas is the judicial police supposed to operate?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u143	Thank you, Mrs. Zalokarev. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u144	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Messengers and Members! Thank you for the question, Madam Ambassador. My answer will be brief. I have never given any instructions within the Ministry to discuss these matters, to work or to conduct any projects. This was not discussed at any government meeting or any government working body. So, unfortunately, I can't comment on the issues that you read in the paper that I read myself. In short, there is no project within the Ministry and within the Slovenian police. I do not know that such a project would take place in any other area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u145	Thank you, Minister. Do you want to complete the answer? [[No, no, ……]] It's mag. Vasja Klavora, who will raise a question from the Parliament to the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u146	Dear Mr President, distinguished Minister, honourable Members! I would like to ask the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs the question of the Member State's recognition of the status and rights of the victims of war violence for the coastal Slovenians, members of the Italian army. In Slovenia, and in particular in the coastal public, the issue of the regulation of the status of the coastal Slovenians, which, as formerly mobilised in Italy, was increasingly raised by the German occupation forces, which returned home after the collapse of the Italian army. That's how the Germans sent the captives of the sea into the labor camps. I would also like to add that in 1942 and 1943 there was a mobilization of juvenile coastal boys, fifteen-, sixteen-year-olds, who were sent not to regular Italian military units, but to special units, they were so-called "battalione spasios", who were inside Italy, where these boys were without weapons, controlled in special camps. When Italy collapsed, they tried to return home, for they had already been sent there because of the increasing resistance against the invader and therefore the Italians preventively did so with them. In doing so, I would like to say that a monograph of this event, entitled "Battalioni Spaziali", was recently published by the coastal author, where an accurate list of all these young boys who were mobilized into the Italian army was also given. Most of them then found themselves in German labor camps. The existing law on victims of war violence provides that the victim of war violence is a citizen of the Republic of Slovenia, who has been subjected to violent acts in war or military aggression against the Republic of Slovenia, or victims of forced evictions or forced labour for political, national, racial or religious reasons. Unfortunately, such a diction of the provisions of the law cited does not give a legal title for regulating the status of coastal mobilizers. Like other prisoners in the labour camps, they have been subjected to violence by the occupying party and therefore it seems unreasonable from the point of view of the feelings of the people in Primorska that their fate has been silenced and that they have not provided for any legal address to solve the problems mentioned above. So I ask you, Mr Minister: What are the options or legal measures you have foreseen to solve this problem? A similar problem has been presented several times, but they have turned to me again, and I am exposing it again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u147	Thank you, Mr. Clavori. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u148	Thank you very much for asking me this question. The provisions of the existing law on victims of war violence, which you yourself have cited, lay down the conditions for recognition of status and rights for victims of war violence. We must find that the territory of Primorska between 1900 and 1947, in the previous century, was a legal part of Italy. The inhabitants of this territory were then considered Italian citizens and, as such, were also Italian military taxpayers. For them, Italy was not an occupation authority, and the mobilisation of the coastal Slovenians into the Italian army, although only a unit that did not participate directly in the fight could not be considered as a form of coercive action, taking into account the provisions of the law on victims of war violence. Many were mobilized in 1943 as soldiers in a special work battalion, and then as Italian soldiers interned in German captivity, where they had to work. Unfortunately, many died there. The current regulation of victims of war violence does not constitute a violation of the constitutional principle of equality before the law and does not dictate a change of law. The constitutional provision means that there is a need to regulate substantially the same situations equally and different situations. Identifying and weighing these differences is an essential component of legislative decision-making. The special protection of victims of war violence is complementary and linked to an integrated social protection system. However, there is a field of discretion and the consequences of these rights also represent a material burden for the country. The legislator has the power and responsibility to assess, within all public burdens, how much it weighs, this may be a burden. It is not to be overlooked that Italy has established a form of protection for service in the Italian army. Thus, it is necessary to evaluate situations and circumstances that are considered to be legally relevant to the concept of victims of war violence, which is a question of appropriateness, but should be consistent with the constitutional framework. The proposal for a new law on victims of war violence does not extend the range of beneficiaries for such cases.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u149	Thank you, Minister. Just allow me, Mr Klavor, to remind everyone who is accompanying us in the house that in a few minutes we will move on to the 9th item of the agenda, this is to consider the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the organisation and financing of education and education. Please join us in a short time, all those who are listed as performing. Mr. Klavora, would you like an additional explanation? [[No, no, ……]] Of course, this was the last question. The others withdrew their questions. I thank the ministers for their answers. I hereby conclude this agenda item. The proposals made by the Members, the Master of Brick and Dr Lahovnik to hold a debate at the next meeting on the responses of the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Transport will be decided by the State Assembly in the context of the votes to begin after the 10th item of the agenda. As they have not yet joined us on the list of those performing, I am adjourning the meeting of the National Assembly in five minutes. We'll pick her up at 1:15.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u150	We are proceeding with a meeting of the National Assembly. We're moving to nine. Agenda item - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Organisation and Financing of Education and Education. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to Dr. Magdalena Svertz, representative of the Ministry of Education and Sport. Here you go. Here's to the payphone.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u151	Hello, presidents, and everyone in attendance! The ZOFVI, which was adopted in 1996, provides for the establishment of 14 school administrations. In 2002, however, a bill was adopted saying that by 1 September 2005 14 school administrations must be set up. As conditions are not established for this purpose, the proposer proposes that the legal basis for the establishment of school administrations be removed and that the establishment of school administrations be postponed until the country also takes decisions on the regions in the Slovenian space. The second amendment concerns the validation of textbooks and teaching materials. The legislator proposes to delete the acceptance and validation of teaching because we believe that teachers are sufficiently autonomous to be able to accept for themselves which teaching and teaching aids will be used in teaching. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u152	Thank you, Mrs. Smugglers. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport as a parent working body. I ask the chairman of the committee, Master Branko Grims, to present the report of the committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u153	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you! At its 5th regular meeting on 1 June 2005, the Committee considered the proposal for this Act, endorsed it, and supplemented it with several amendments, including the four amendments drafted by the Committee itself. The debate has shown that many of us still do not understand enough what positive law means, that is to say that everything that is not explicitly prohibited is allowed. A great deal of unnecessary controversy was true with regard to the already mentioned provision on freedom of teachers in the choice of teaching, because deleting the existing formulation does not mean, of course, that it is limited in any way, but, on the contrary, that the teacher taught the post completely autonomous and thus in his work independent. Therefore, on behalf of the Committee, we propose that this law be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u154	Thank you, Mr Grimes. Mr Friend will present the opinion of the party on behalf of the Slovenian National Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u155	Dear President, distinguished colleagues and respected colleagues! Allow me a few words of criticism when we say the position of the parliamentary group on the proposal for a law supplementing the law on education and education financing. The drafter wrote in the basic preamble that the draft law removes the legal basis for the establishment of school administrations, since the implementation of legislative decisions has not taken place in almost ten years. That's right. At the same time, their implementation in relation to the planned reorganisation or decentralisation of the country would not make sense. Finally, I would like to say, if I can say so, because, if memory does not deceive me, we have collectively supported the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Administration, and we are pleased that the Government has decided and has made a public promise to the general public of Slovenia that through the decentralisation of the State Administration, the decentralisation of a country which is a strategically important project for the government in the coming term will take it seriously for its project, which must be supported by all the relevant policies. Therefore, it makes sense, it is stated, that a minister without a source is appointed as the area of local self-government and regional development. This means decentralisation of the state administration and thus the transfer of good services not only to Ljubljana, but also to peripheral areas throughout Slovenia. And we were happy about that. Today, we have another law before us, where, with the same explanation, the same body denies a widely supported law. What's this all about? Already our Member, Bogdan Barovic, has highlighted this issue in his 2004 Membership as a matter of great urgency, with 120 million tolars dedicated to this area. And of course the possibility would open up for the so-called school administration centres to expand to Celje, Koper, Kranj, Brežice, Ljubljana, Maribor, Mursko Sobota, Novo Gorica, Novo mesto, Postojno, Slovenj Gradec, Trbovlje and Velenje. This would mean quite a few good jobs on the outskirts of Slovenia, not only in White Ljubljana, where all good jobs are stationed today. Of course, we cannot go beyond the fact that the government or the proposer is proposing such a law that is in pure contradiction with what we adopted a month ago in a special law that is supposed to change the governance policy of public services. What is the attitude of the parent’s working body is a credible position, it cannot be disputed, it is true. However, the government abolishes 14 school administrations. No matter what their powers are, they transfer all tasks to the Ministry. This, in my view and in the opinion and belief of the Slovenian National Party, is not a wise act. That is why we will not oppose this law, but probably, at least I can assure you, we will vote on our own conscience, I will oppose this proposal solely because I am a patriot and because I cannot agree with such a stepmotherly relationship and a non-professional decision of the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u156	Thank you, Mr. Friend. Mr Branko Marinič will speak on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u157	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the organisation and financing of education and education in the proposed framework will be supported by the Slovenian Democratic Party. These are less complex amendments and additions to the law on the organisation and financing of education and education, which relate only to the abolition of the legal basis for the establishment of school administrations and their competences. The deadline for the establishment of school administrations is 1 September 2005, which is why the amendment of the law is necessary as the deadline expires from 1.9.2005. Given the fact that the process of setting up school administrations is inconceivable, decentralisation in the field of local self-government has not been so far in time that it makes sense. It is, of course, that the proposed changes have no financial implications, on the contrary, by the way we propose, that we also save something in the financial field. So it's not a financial burden. What we think is very important. What we have also stressed on the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport is the separation between schools and textbooks, that more autonomy in learning is then given to teachers to decide for themselves which tools they choose in their teaching work. It's about being able to use stuffed animals or something. As I have already said, the Slovenian Democratic Party will also confirm the proposed amendments to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u158	Thank you, Mr. Marinic. Mrs Majda Potter will speak on behalf of the Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u159	Thank you for saying so, Mr President. Dear Government Representative, distinguished colleague and colleague! The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the organisation and financing of education and education, which, like most other legislative proposals in this mandate, has, as a rule, been proposed by the government in short-term proceedings, bears quite a few characteristics that indicate the urgency of amending legislation. The proposal for a law, for example, does not include in the introduction of the regulation in other legal systems, although it removes the provisions on the establishment of school administrations and thus interferes with the establishment of an administrative subsystem in the field of education linked to the apparent new intentional decentralisation or territorialisation of the performance of administrative and other systemic tasks in education. A representative of the government, the secretary of state, suggested that school administrations should be set up when a clear vision of regionalisation of the country is also provided. We think that this leads to the conclusion that the regionalisation of the state for the coalition is a very vague and distant intention, but also that the deadline for setting it up could also be proposed by simply delaying the deadline for the establishment of school administrations if it is to believe that the conditions for their establishment are not met. It is interesting, however, that in the supplementary proposal of the Act under consideration, published in Rapporteur No 36, page 62, it is possible to read in the supplementary explanation of the Government's representative matters which cannot be found in the magnetogram of the meeting of the Committee on Culture, Education and Sports, held on 2 June 2005. The proposal for a law has, among other things, excluded teachings from the competence of the professional world, which we do not object to, since the review of the teachings that are already being used by teachers and teachers in teaching is impossible to do and it is impossible to say that all teachings have already gone through the examination of the professional world. However, we have reason to believe that the drafter of the proposal - a very short one - has only 11 articles in the law, together with a transitional provision, has not prepared such a proposal to be acceptable to the legislative and legal service of the National Assembly. Only Articles 7 and 11 of the proposal did the legal and legislative service have no reasoned comments. I say justified because the proposer then subsequently intervened with the amendments' proposals to the law and thus settled things that were previously not well regulated. We will not support the bill because of all the above mentioned Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u160	Thank you, Mrs. Patrati. Mrs Marjetka Uhan will speak on behalf of New Slovenia, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u161	Mr President, the representative of the Ministry, Members and Members of Parliament! We have a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the organisation and financing of education and education. This law changes only the law because in practice the provisions of the law have not yet been implemented. In accordance with the 1996 Act, 14 school administrations were envisaged to be established by the beginning of this September and to take over certain administrative services, personnel, financial and organisational tasks, which are otherwise under the auspices of the Ministry. In Novi Slovenija we support the amendment that deletes the establishment of school administrations. Since the law had not been implemented in ten years, there was obviously no real need. With the possible establishment this year, we should employ additional civil servants and provide them with education, at the same time bringing about spatial and financial difficulties. The creation itself would not solve the problem of decentralisation and regionalisation of the country for which we stand, but would simply transfer certain tasks from the Ministry to school administrations. With the proposed amendment of the law, the validation of textbooks by professional councils is maintained while the provision of teaching is deleted. This gives us a teacher of more autonomy. The teacher was left with the choice to teach children in education and education. We see no need to limit them and prescribe them a choice of teaching and tools. In New Slovenia we support the proposed proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the organisation and financing of education and education.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u162	Thank you, Mrs. Uhan. Mr Michael Prevc will speak on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u163	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law amending the law on the organisation and financing of education and education proposes, somehow, to repeal those provisions of the 1996 law establishing school administrations. These administrations are supposed to be 14 divided, as we know, by a territorial principle, which would act as individual administrations of the unit, of course exclusively in the field of education, and would actually assume all administrative powers and also some systemic tasks of the ministry. The proposed solution to these changes would thus ensure that, until the new state administration regulation in terms of decentralisation and regionalisation, the existing situation is maintained and their tasks continue to be carried out by the competent ministry. The fact is that school administrations have not come from this law in these ten years. The implementation of this law would certainly have a lot of negative consequences, but above all this would mean very irrational behaviour, as additional resources should be provided both for salaries and for material costs, so that efficiency would not increase significantly. In addition, the autonomy of teachers is somehow increasing with regard to these changes to the law, which in some ways also affects the field of textbook validation, since only textbooks are prescribed by law, and all other teaching and teaching aids can be used by teachers of their own choice. From the above facts, the members of the Slovenian People's Party will also support the amendment of this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u164	Thank you, Mr. Prevec. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles, so I conclude the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. In accordance with the timing of the meeting, we will vote on the law today in the framework of the 10th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 10. POINT OF THE DAY - This is first of all a proposal for a law on working time and mandatory pay-per-view of mobile workers and on recording equipment in road transport. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Since there is no government representative, we are moving on to a presentation of the views of the groups. Mr Zvonko Černač will speak on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u165	Dear colleagues and others present! We have before us a proposal for a law on working time and mandatory rest for mobile workers and on recording equipment in road transport. The main purpose of the law is to regulate this area in accordance with the legal order of the European Union. We can understand from the proposaler's explanation that, at present, this material, in particular on road traffic control, is regulated by the Road Traffic Safety Act. In addition, tachograph issues were regulated by the rules on metrological requirements for driver control and road traffic control devices adopted under the law on metrology. On 1 May 2004, when the Regulations entered into force in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, the Regulation on metrological requirements summarised the provisions of the European Regulations governing these matters, and this Regulation became unnecessary. The Road Safety Act also introduces the provisions of those European regulations into the Slovenian legal order, which is explicitly prohibited by the case law of the European Communities. The regulations are directly applicable in the Member States and cannot be taken into account in their national legislation, which means that the provisions of the Road Safety Act are, in particular, incompatible with the law of the European Community in Articles 73 to 81. For this reason and because of the comprehensive regulation of this area, solutions are proposed in the law before us. The proposed law provides for the implementation of those Council Regulations by the competent authorities and their tasks, holders of public powers, their powers and manner of granting those powers and official records for the implementation and penalties for offences which constitute infringements of those Regulations. At the same time, this law also brings to the Slovenian legal order Council Directive 88/599, which regulates supervisory procedures for the implementation of those Regulations and Directive 2002/15 of the European Parliament and of the Council, which deals in more detail with certain issues of the working time of mobile workers. The law only brings to the Slovenian legal order those provisions of both Directives, which, according to this legal order, constitute legal matter and leave to the law regulations the regulation of more detailed issues which can be regulated by such a regulation in accordance with the Slovenian legal order. This is a matter of specific powers for the Minister, especially in Article 8 of the Law and so on. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group will support the proposal for a law on working time and mandatory rest for mobile workers and on recording equipment in road transport. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u166	Thank you, Mr. Blackach. Dr. Pavlich's not here. Mr. Weber, do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u167	Thank you for your word, President. Article 66 of the Rules of Procedure provides that the applicant or his representative must provide an additional explanation if the State assembly so decides. Today we are considering this law without a representative of the proposer. I have read the law myself, it is extremely unclear and it is indeed necessary to provide a supplementary explanation in the introduction itself, rather than later in the debate, so I propose that the National Assembly vote on the need for an explanation by the applicant or his representative if we are to conclude this in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u168	Thank you, Mr. Weber. You've heard the procedural proposal and I'm putting it to the vote. The vote is under way. Who's in favour of a procedural proposal? Please check the cards, we were inconclusive. We will vote once again on the procedural proposal to suspend the meeting in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 66 and to continue or first require the presentation of the applicant. We're voting. The vote is under way. Who's in favour of a procedural proposal? We're still inconclusive. I'm interrupting the session. We'll continue in 10 minutes. That's 13.53.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u169	Although the Minister is already among us and the proposal is irrelevant, we must conclude the voting process. I therefore call on you to vote on the procedural proposal, for the third time. We're voting. 61 present, 23 to 34. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 34.]] I note that the proposal is not adopted. Mr. Webber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u170	Thank you, President, once again for your word. In view of the fact that the Minister is among us, I propose that we still allow him to make a presentation of the law and, if necessary, we vote on it. However, I think that the conditions for the applicant to present his own presentation are met.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u171	It is true that we must vote on the proposal, otherwise the Minister has no say. You have heard the procedural proposal to give the floor to the Minister of the Interior. We're voting. Fifty-seven votes in favour against six. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against six.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. Mr. Minister, please, you have the floor for the opening explanation behind the box. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u172	Mr President, honourable Members and honourable Members! The proposed law provides for the implementation of Council Regulation EEC No 3820/85 and Council Regulation EEC No 3821/85, with all amendments to the competent authorities and their tasks, holders of public powers, their powers, the manner in which those powers and official records are granted for implementation and penalties for offences which constitute infringements of those Regulations. At the same time, it also transposes into the Slovenian legal order Council Directive 88/599-EEC, which regulates supervisory procedures for the implementation of those Regulations and Directive 2002/15-EC of the European Parliament and of the Council, which deals in more detail with certain aspects of the working time of mobile workers. It should be pointed out that only those provisions of both Directives which constitute legal matter in accordance with the legal order are transposed into the Slovenian legal order, and the regulation of more detailed issues leaves to the regulations which may be governed by such a provision in accordance with the Slovenian legal order. The draft law first mentions the content mentioned in the general provisions and then contains the definitions relating to the law. In the next chapter, the proposed law regulates working time and compulsory rest and in its most extensive chapter of the road transport recorder, which we call tachographs. This Chapter regulates the area of competence of workshops and memory cards. The control and reporting powers are regulated in the control and reporting section. In the section of the criminal provision, the proposal of the law lays down offences and fines for infringements of the provisions of both Regulations, ATR, this is in accordance with the European Agreement on the Work of Crews of Vehicles engaged in International Road Transport and also with this Act. In the transitional and final provisions, the proposed law first imposes a deadline on the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for the granting of public authority. In addition, it now allows authorised workshops for analogue tachographs to continue to carry out this activity, on the basis of existing powers, until a new authorisation is obtained. The proposed law also repeals the provisions of Articles 73 to 81 of the Road Traffic Safety Act, which have regulated the working time of drivers and tachographs so far, and Article 10 of the Regulation on Road Traffic Equipment and Equipment. Thank you so much for saying that.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u173	Thank you, Minister. We continue to present the views of the groups of Members. Mr Janko Weber will speak on behalf of the Social Democrats. Here you go, Mr. Webber.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u174	Thank you for your word, President, and a nice greeting to everyone! In the Social Democrats Group, we find that the proposal for a law on working time and compulsory rest for mobile workers and on recording equipment in road transport is extremely vague and inaccurate. We would therefore like to draw attention in particular to some of the key dilemmas that the law does not address, but they are, of course, extremely important for how transport will take place in practice. This is the farthest-opened issue in the field or in a chapter that discusses working time and the mandatory rest of mobile workers. This raises a question and a dilemma regarding the application of the special law that we are considering today and the application of the general labour law. This is mainly about the Labour Relations Act. It also raises the question of the application of European rules and the implementation of those rules in the area of Slovenia. Furthermore, it is unclear to apply the very specific provision laid down in this law. This is a European agreement on the work of crews of vehicles engaged in international road transport. This agreement has not yet been ratified by Slovenia, but is included in the text of this Act. Of course, the question is whether or not we use it. A whole series of dilemmas that will certainly lead to an extremely serious problem in the implementation of this law in practice. In order to address these problems, a public debate has already been organised, or more precisely, on the issue of the implementation of domestic and European rules on working time and mandatory rest for road users. At this expert meeting, it was very clear that both the Chamber of Commerce and users, the Union, were not satisfied with this law and pointed out the already mentioned dilemmas brought about by this law. On the one hand, the law makes it very clear that it adopts directives and regulations of the European Council, and on the other hand it speaks of not taking all the provisions of the Directives and Regulations into account and writing them into this law, while on the other hand the other users should read them in these European rules. In short, extremely difficult, difficult not to say even hard work for road users. We would also somehow understand that someone takes the time to read all these acts, but it is very difficult to understand this if we know that carriers face extremely severe competition. This competition also comes, of course, from and above all from other European countries, where these regulations are set or, if not specified, are clear to carriers, so that they can actually reach far more competitive conditions than we do in Slovenia. It is therefore also a matter of whether we will place our carriers in a subordinate position because of unclear rules, compared with other carriers from other European Union countries. It is also a major financial and economic impact that could be caused if this law were adopted without serious discussion between all interested social partners. Therefore, our view is that it is necessary to carry out a preliminary public hearing of the proposed law in order to even carry out appropriate simulations on the practical application in practice, i.e. in the transport companies themselves. It is only through a joint dialogue in a group of experts that it is possible, both with the assistance of the Government and representatives or Members, to provide answers on the non-compliance of this law with our labour law and the non-compliance of this law with the European directives, regulations and other regulations that should apply in this area. Let me just give you a few concrete examples that say that we already have a defined situation in Slovenia on what mobile workers' working hours are supposed to look like. The Road Traffic Safety Act and the Labour Relations Act already make clear how road transport deals with the area of working time and the mandatory rest of mobile workers. Thus, working hours are limited by 40 hours per week, and overtime may also be possible under the provisions of the Labour Relations Act, or it is possible to work for 56 hours if working hours are unevenly allocated. With regard to rest, the Labour Relations Act provides that the driver must rest for 12 hours and 11 hours if the working time is unevenly allocated. However, it is also true that the additional individual provisions on the regulation of working hours are more detailed or more precisely laid down under the Act on Working Relations in Collective Contracts, specifically in this transport-related activity. There are laws in Slovenia that allow and direct the implementation of the working time of mobile workers, and any exceptions can be further defined in collective agreements. However, in Slovenia, the fact that collective agreements do not apply and is the search for solutions in adopting a law that will avoid negotiations with employers is one of the possible forms, but the fact is that this form is inconvenient because it introduces a significantly greater disorder in this area, as it has so far been able to apply the Road Safety Act and the Labour Relations Act very clearly. It would be necessary to approach collective bargaining and, of course, appropriate negotiations should be held and all open issues should be addressed in these negotiations. However, open questions are not limited to carriers involved in the transport of goods. It is also a problem of mixed transport, as it is possible to use and enforce the status of mixed transport in line transport up to 50 kilometres. This combined transport raises the issue of the application of the law on working time and mandatory rest of mobile workers. This law does not specifically regulate the situation of mixed transport. And if we add that public liners already face a poor financial situation, and that this is probably why they try to avoid a whole range of social regulations, it is essential that they approach very concrete negotiations and also resolve the dilemma of mixed transport, either in a collective agreement or it is clearly defined in the law. We note that these definitions are not clearly defined in the law. These are truly very serious derogations and dilemmas that arise in this law. Since this is all about the functioning of the Slovenian economy, which is largely related to carriers and, lastly, to the competitiveness of our carriers, if companies decide on foreign carriers, we are threatening even a variety of jobs, we are endangering a whole range of entrepreneurs who have invested their resources in having their means of transport and the inadequacy of the rules, and thus they can lose all their assets and jobs. We therefore propose that before further consideration of this law, the government should explain clearly how the law will be applied in practice. It is certainly necessary to ensure that, if adopted, mobile workers in practice will cease to be subject to the provisions of the General Labour Relations Act. If this does not happen, this law will, of course, be contrary to the Labour Relations Act. Therefore, we believe that the law, unless further clarifications are made by the bill's proponents that will address these dilemmas, is really inappropriate for further consideration and it would be more appropriate today to conclude the legislative procedure and continue it after a public presentation of the opinions to this law and then adopt a law that will allow for the competitive implementation of transport activities in the territory of Slovenia and, in particular, the competitive activity of Slovenian carriers throughout the EU, since other carriers have significantly more favourable conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u175	Thank you, Mr. Webra. Mr Jožef Horvat will speak on behalf of New Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u176	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members. I also welcome the Minister with my associates. A mandatory recording of the driver’s activity was introduced within the European Community in 1969. The recording was carried out by the driver himself, literally by hand. Only in 1985 does the regulation introduce technological improvements, which is a tachograph that we all know well. In 1988, the tachograph introduced the new features of the recording adopted by the EEC Council Directive, which set out different ways of controlling the driver’s activities both on the road and at the premises of the company. The tachographs were originally based on the idea that the driver was willing to subject himself to control and therefore were not sufficiently protected from falsification of data or records. There have been frauds which have made the situation of carriers that respect the rules worse. As a result, and also as a result of improving road safety, a new generation of digital tachographs has been introduced to better control the rest of drivers, allowing for a higher safety level and remedying these deficiencies. With digital tachographs, the European Commission intends to replace the usual, that is, analog tachographs in the coming years. In digital tachographs, it is more difficult to modify or edit recorded data, and it is also possible to collect the desired data more qualitatively and efficiently, to achieve competitiveness already mentioned, to improve the transparency of the work on competitors, and perhaps the most important, to increase traffic safety with greater control over the work of the driver. The introduction of new technologies therefore brings digital tachographs and tachograph cards. This includes driver tachographs, driver's tachograph cards and tachograph cards for business, workshops and supervisory authorities. These cards are intended primarily to identify certain persons or institutions involved in this process and, on the other hand, to record data and control. It is also intended for monitoring an additional element of the introduction of digital tachographs, a system of tachometers. This is essentially a telematic network that is supposed to operate throughout the territory of the European Union as a central hub for the exchange of information between national administrations. According to the New Slovenia Group, the present proposal for a law on working time and mandatory rest of mobile workers and on recording equipment in road transport adequately aligns the European directives with the Slovenian acquis. For this reason, the New Slovenia Group will support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u177	Thank you, Mr. Horvath. Mr Franz Kangler will speak on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u178	Thank you for your word. Dear representatives of the government, honourable President, Members and Members of Parliament! In the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group, we will support the proposal for a law on working time and mandatory rest of mobile workers and on recording equipment in road transport, as proposed by the government at first reading. The proposed law follows the directive literally and does not use the power of Member States to lay down more favourable conditions for workers. The proposed law fully summarises the requirements of the Directive after weekly working hours, breaks, rest of trainees and apprentices and night work. The proposed law transposes into the Slovenian legal order the provision that workers must be informed of the requirements of the regulations issued under this Directive and that the employer must record the working time of mobile workers and keep these records for at least two years. Of course, the most extensive chapter of the proposed law governs electronic recording devices in road transport. In this section, the proposed law first provides for the general powers of administration necessary for the enforcement of both regulations, namely the issuance of sub-legislative rules by the Minister of Transport, and for other administrative tasks by the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads. It is important that we face one of the most important problems that this law brings in the second reading of this law. This is that the actual burden on Slovenian carriers or drivers is adjusted to the current situation and to the directives prescribed for this purpose. It should be noted that there is a significant shortage of drivers in Slovenia, and if this law makes this area more acute, as far as weekly working hours, rest and night work are concerned, the demand for this labour in the Slovenian space will increase significantly. And here the Slovenian People's Party Group points out that it is necessary to try to find such a solution that will, on the one hand, satisfy the rules of the European Union, on the other hand, employers and, of course, on the third hand, workers. As I said at first reading, we will support the marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u179	Thank you, Mr. Kangler. Mr Boštjan Zagorac will speak on behalf of the Slovenian National Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u180	Thank you for your word, Your Honor! The proposal for a law on working time and compulsory rest for mobile workers and on recording equipment in road transport is essentially a law that is enforced by certain directives of the European Union. Some of these directives have already been adopted by the former Yugoslavia into its legal order, and some are now waiting for us. The first question that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia would have asked before telling the Slovenian National Party's position on whether or not to support the law is whether, in fact, it is a law on working time and compulsory rest of mobile workers and on recording equipment in road transport, it is possible to place it in only one law or it might be necessary to make two laws. If you have decided to pursue such a course and to deal with the law as before us today, it would be enough to change the transport law, not to enforce a new law. If we go straight to the content of the law, that I will not repeat history, such as the predecessors before me, which directives must be implemented into Slovenian law, and what are the reasons why we are adopting this law today, because we know that the only reason is essentially forcing the European Union to do so. The law is ready quickly because we know that we are already delaying the implementation of these directives into the Slovenian legal order and that is why I will also say, if a person looks at it very badly or poorly prepared, and I think that there is also agreement with the public concerned, and I mean carriers, you have not reached it. As far as I am aware, you have only observed a few of those requests or, in fact, requests addressed to the government by carriers. The first thing that's very disturbing is the determination, I'll say, of the working time of the carrier and the time in which the worker or I'll say, the car carrier or the driver, if I call him otherwise, is available. In the law before us, you have determined that in fact the time the driver spends at the border checkpoint is the time, if it is longer than half an hour, counted at the time when the worker is available. Of course, you mentioned here the time that can be anticipated in advance. I don't know how someone can either be a legal person carrying out transports, or for a driver himself, predict how long he'll be waiting at one border. If we take a concrete example, the driver driving to Serbia and Montenegro cannot predict when he starts his truck, how long he will wait on the Croatian border and how long he will wait on the Serbian border. I think that the previous regulation of the law or law on transport is better, which provides that waiting time at the state border is considered at work if it is shorter than one hour and also when you mention Mr Minister in your appearance of the criminal provision. I think that you have, I will say, overstepped both the directives and, in essence, the purpose of adopting such a law, as you have written in the criminal provisions that if a driver who works for a particular legal person who carries out transport infringements of transport legislation or the transport law or this law, you are, therefore, punishing a legal person. I do not think that a legal person or owner of a particular company can influence how the driver will carry out his or her transport in accordance with the law. The application of so-called so-called so-called tachographs, which is also the basis of this law, I think this is in line with the time, since it is time for the driver to also take some control. As advice or recommendation for the second treatment of this law, so much so by the Slovenian National Party. Come on, try to meet the interested public again, take into account their well-intentioned proposals and not be stubborn and formulate or implement European legislation into the Slovenian legal order just because Europe has said it and in the easiest and fastest possible way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u181	Thank you, Mr. Zagorec. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Dr. Mark Pavlich has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u182	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Again a nice greeting to ministers, fellow workers, dear colleagues and colleagues! The present bill, as we know, is an important part of social legislation in road transport. Social security, together with transport safety, mobility, efficient economic care and environmental protection, is a red thread of European transport policy. The proposed law will have an impact both on transport safety and on the efficiency or economic performance of road transport. All three components, namely social security, efficiency and environmental protection, must be balanced and sound. The provisions of the first part of the law governing working hours and compulsory rests substantially change the regulation so far. In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, of course, we are aware that limiting the working time of drivers and within this driving time and legal extension of mandatory rest and rest time increases traffic safety, which is of course in the public interest and improves working conditions. At the same time, we are also asked what it means to limit working time to 56 hours per 48 hours per week or even to 40 hours per week in terms of the competitiveness of Slovenian road hauliers. In addition, it is not clear that there is a shortage of between 2000 and 3000 drivers in Slovenian road transport. It is also interesting to estimate that, already in compliance with the legislation in force, 1.3 to 1.5 drivers should sit, say and write in a single cargo vehicle instead of one. Next. In our House of Representatives, we point out that Article 4 of the bill is not clear enough or that the relationship between individual legal acts regulating the working time of drivers and tachographs is not sufficiently defined. However, in the European Agreement on the Work of Vehicles in International Road Traffic, it is particularly important to note that its amendments, namely the first, second and third amendments, have not been ratified by our country, I repeat. Additional restrictions arising from the Labour Relations Act also indicate a certain degree of misunderstanding of the specificities of road transport. However, it will be necessary to reconsider the proposals for an extension of the reference period of four to six months. Your Honor! In our House of Members of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, despite the desire to improve transport safety and the working conditions of drivers, we do not want the proposed regulation to become a factor in the non-competitiveness of our road transport industry. Last but not least, traffic creates quite a good percentage of gross product, data is moving from 5 to 7%, which is enough. He employs more than 50,000 people. In particular, road transport represents an extremely important share of inland transport activities. We therefore expect the applicant to present to us his assessment of the impact of the proposed law on the competitiveness of Slovenian road transport. If we look at the key documents, the treaties of the European Union, and not least the constitution that it has experienced, at least for the moment, a clarinet fate, we can see that it is a red thread and an alpha and an omega message of competitiveness. And this is what they assign to the most articles in these regulations. And, of course, the applicant will examine the state of social legislation in road transport in those countries from which competition comes to our road transport. This is also pointed out, if we can call them cechyovo associations. In the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club, we will not object to the conclusion that the bill is suitable for further consideration, but we expect that the issues we have pointed out in the legislative process will be clarified. Otherwise, of course, we reserve the right not to support the regulation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u183	Thank you, Mr. Pavlich. Mrs. Breda Bakan. [[She's not here.]] Mr. Janc. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Aurelio Yuri, you have the floor. [[He's quitting.]] Mr. Lucky Hwauc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u184	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I will support the bill myself, and I may give two reasons for that. It is true that the issue of the competitiveness of Slovenian carriers is being raised, which has already been raised before me by a colleague, Dr Marko Pavliha. In theory, of course, we would be most competitive if the drivers worked for free and if they worked 24 hours a day. But that's not possible. It is only necessary to find some real measure when work is still tolerable, when there is no danger of transport safety due to working time and rest while we are still on the edge of competitiveness. I think that the law, as it is, with working time and certain breaks, makes it possible. It is also in accordance with the Labour Relations Act. It even determines a slightly stricter or shorter working time than the law itself, which I think is right in terms of the nature of work. We just need to know that driving in a truck when the driver is tired can also be dangerous, not only for him, but also for other road users. However, as regards criminal provisions, which also provide for sanctions or fines for a legal person or legal person responsible in the event of certain infringements, I think that the infringement of the articles of this Act is also correct. It is true that a legal person or a legal person responsible may not directly violate the provisions around rest or around working hours, but may, by various pressures, have an impact on drivers knowingly violating those provisions, which of course is not good. That's why I think this solution is right because of all the things I've said, I'm also going to support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u185	Thank you, Mr. Hwauc. Mr. Boyan Rugelj has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u186	Thank you, Mr. President. I believe that the Law on Working Time and Compulsory Rest of Mobile Workers is suitable for first reading, as it brings us closer to European standards. At present, I see the problem only as Mr Bozič has already said, that the working time of mobile workers with European standards should somehow be adjusted. The current Labour Relations Act limits working hours to 40 hours per week on average, while in Europe this is 48 hours. Of course, it is clear that such a change requires a broader debate and also a consensus of all the social partners. If this does not happen, I believe that the number of unemployed in transport will increase in the future. The theme, of course, will be interesting. With the urgency of taking into account the specifics of our carriers, these changes are likely to take place soon. Until then, we can stress that there is still a law on working relations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u187	Thank you, Mr. Ruggle. Mr Branko Marinič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u188	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Nice greetings to the Minister with his associates! Dear colleagues and colleagues, as many of us are in the hall! I believe that this is an important acquisition in the field of regulation in this respect, and I think it is right that the government has started its regulatory work in a timely manner in this area as well. We cannot fall behind in terms of digitisation and it is right to follow the European standards governing this area in this area. Above all, we need to ask ourselves when we are deciding on such important matters as what is happening on Slovenian roads. And certainly part of this is linked and depends on how legislation will be regulated in this area. I believe that the proposal for a law on working time and compulsory rest for drivers is regulated by providing, on the one hand, a social aspect and, on the other hand, an economic aspect. The social dimension is mainly when we speak and apply legislation on labour relations. And it seems to me that this is integrated and that it takes into account this mandatory rest or certain working hours in accordance with the legislation governing this area. And if we are at first reading today, I think there will be plenty of time and opportunity to attract an interested public and a professional who will also be happy to help us in this area. Of course, at the final stage until the third reading, we will have sufficient opportunities and opportunities to address this bill in the widest possible form. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u189	Thank you, Mr. Marinic. I give my word to Mr. Daniel the Blameer. [[He's quitting.]] Mr. Janko Weber, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u190	Thank you. In this law, I would like to make another comparison, which is very current in terms of the situation in Austria. They also have social legislation in Austria and a 40-hour worker is established at the level of general legislation in Austria. However, drivers may, at the request of the employer, work for 55 hours per week in accordance with a collective agreement. The reference period is 12 months. Thus, Austria has not yet adopted a European directive in this area, although their regulation, which they are now applying, is, of course, far wider than the European Directive itself. I do not know why negotiations are not being held in Slovenia to conclude collective agreements where these exceptions could be addressed, on the basis of which our carriers would, of course, be more competitive and still carry out transport within the framework of European Union directives or at least on the basis of these concluded sectoral collective agreements. The mere fact that, if this law is adopted, it is likely that a provision will be in force which is enshrined in the Labour Relations Act and that Slovenian carriers will be able to drive only 40 hours per week. This can follow from a clear explanation or understanding of this law. This special law, however, tries to introduce a longer weekly working time of 60 hours, only if the average of 48 hours per week is not exceeded within four months, but the Labour Relations Act does not, of course, know such solutions. However, it will be necessary to use it very clearly, as it all appears. This law also refers to the fact that, irrespective of the provision I have read, it is that the maximum weekly working time may be increased to 60 hours if it does not exceed the weekly average of 48 hours within four months, the provisions of the Regulation should be taken into account. It is also necessary to take into account the so-called European Agreement on the Work of Crews of Vehicles engaged in International Road Transport. Slovenia has not yet ratified this international agreement. However, we refer precisely to it, and it must be taken into account precisely in that part of this law, which is trying to give some more opportunities or some longer working time to mobile carriers, as provided for by the Labour Relations Act. Therefore, there will certainly be problems in the practice of which regulation even in Slovenia applies, which rule, if found not to be applicable, is applicable, as my opinion is that the Labour Relations Act is certainly the one which will direct the implementation of these transports without the conclusion of collective agreements which the Labour Relations Act makes possible will not be possible to apply these exceptions. However, especially in this case, as I have already said, the part of the law that allows these exceptions will be impossible to implement because this international agreement of Slovenia, the European Crew Work Agreement, is not ratified. I think we should really get these answers. If this situation has not been cleared, it would be more appropriate to wait until these issues have been resolved, for when the law comes into second treatment or in the procedure of the working body, it is virtually impossible to stop these discussions and it is possible for some only to try to remedy certain shortcomings in the law. However, I fear that these shortcomings are such that they cannot be resolved in this law alone, or that any additional step in this law can further complicate the situation and become even more vague. I don't think it's too much to think about whether it makes sense to continue this debate until these issues that I have mentioned are resolved.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u191	Thank you, Mr. Webra. Mr. Tinker Bell. You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u192	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Once again a nice greeting to all present. I see this law as some kind of technical law and compliance with the EU acquis. In my opinion, it is also intended to do so. I do not see any particular urgency in preparing this text. I think that these provisions are very precise, clear and technical in particular regulate this part of the recording equipment, since it is mainly the main substance of this law. If we look at paragraphs 46, only paragraphs 5, 4 to 8 refer to working time and compulsory rest. And these articles are also very clear for those who want to read and who read as they are written, do not derogate from the provisions of the VAT in anything, this is clearly in writing in Article 4 and, in a specific way, comply with the regulation, determine what is specific in traffic and seek some compromise between the interests of the employer and the relevant safety standards of drivers or employees. I would rather say that certain debates are somewhat vague and that the law is quite clear. I think that this is a matter of alignment with the legal order and, as such, I also see it as suitable for further consideration. That is why we will also support him in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u193	Thank you, Mr. Chernach. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u194	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I will try briefly to answer open - minded dilemmas or views of the law itself. I will not repeat the things I have already said in the introduction that it is about implementing and harmonising our legislation in this area with the EU. We are already obliged to implement this law in practice with the entry into the EU. I would point out that what has already been said is that this law is also an important way of regulating traffic safety. Finally, synergies between all those elements that are important for creating better traffic safety is one of the first steps Slovenia must take. The question raised with regard to the harmonisation of the law on the working relations of the Republic of Slovenia and the implementation of the Directive is the fact that the implementation of EU Regulation 2002/15 is a matter for regulating the working time of persons carrying out accompanying road transport activities and the deadline of this Regulation was already March 2005, so we are not in a hurry. In fact, in some ways, we are implementing these proposed amendments, or we are proposing this law for adoption in the National Assembly. The extension of work in road transport activities is possible only with appropriate amendments to the Labour Relations Act, which has been clearly stated. The law is in no way incompatible with the proposed law on employment relations. As such, the law allows a 60 hour worker per week, that is 48 per 4 months and 40 hours per year is on average. This is a response to the fact that this is a matter of compliance with the Labour Relations Act. It's a matter of law enforcement. I think only implementation is quite clearly written in the law itself. The first step is to select public authorities within 7 months and then follow all other activities. The question raised was that it would be more necessary to make two laws. We think that it is possible that this solution is the most appropriate, not least that it is a coordinated regulation of the transport legislation vis-a-vis European legislation in Slovenia, we are no different from the others. The question of consensus with the various partners involved in this work, especially those of the union, etc., I can say that we have reached consensus in those parts where this was possible and where this is, of course, legal and it was possible to take into account their comments, suggestions and wishes. The fact is that it is the desire to achieve on the one hand the economic impact of those who have these undertakings engaged in transport activities as much as possible. On the other hand, this transport safety factor, which I believe is more important in synergy with this criterion of economic performance of companies. That's what I'd say. The AETR is mentioned in the law because we apply these rules and conditions to our drivers outside the EU, but of course it is also mentioned by the EU regulation. That's the end of it. The various professions known to this type of activity were involved in the drafting of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u195	Thank you, Minister. Since the time for discussion has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss the matter under Rule 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. [[Nobody.]] This concludes the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide today in the framework of the vote. I'm breaking this agenda. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. We are moving on to the end of the 1st item of the agenda, which is the question of Members and Members. Before we go to the vote, I ask Members and Members to check the functioning of the voting apparatus, namely, the orange light must be on the right hand side of the card. In this case, the voting apparatus shall operate and a vote may be taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Milan M. Cvikl, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance, Dr Andrej Bajuk, to the question of mags. Milana M. Squeakle on government measures to prevent further declines in economic growth. You want to explain your voice? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u196	I would like to explain or further explain my procedural proposal or proposal for a decision of the assembly. Today, the Minister of Finance spoke of some figures that do not answer my question about what the government will do. In accordance with the Public Finance Act, the government is expected to hold a budgetary debate in the spring months. This budgetary debate also identifies economic policy priorities in terms of current legislation and sub-legislative acts, which I think would be an appropriate response to the decline in economic growth in the first quarter of 2005 compared to the year before. We are assessing in the opposition that this is a reflection of two types of problems, on the one hand of the relatively late state budget rebalancing and reduction within this investment expenditure, and on the other, of the evident political interventions taking place in economic societies. Last week, the nationalisation of our largest pharmaceutical company Krka, a shareholder company, was announced because small shareholders no longer have the right to sit in the supervisory world. We expect the RS government to present, in line with the macro-economic situation analysis, a draft budgetary memorandum setting out national development priorities, and we expect a meaningful debate to be held in these national development priorities in the context of the debate on the response of the Minister of Finance today. We have not heard this today, and also taking into account yesterday's debate, I propose that the assembly establish an opportunity to discuss this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u197	Thank you, Mr. Squeakle. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 39. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 39.]] I note that the proposal for a decision is not adopted. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Mate Lahovnik, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next regular meeting on the response of the Minister of Transport, Mag. Janez Bozič, on the question of transport flow from April to September on sections of Slovenian roads and motorways where reconstruction takes place. You want to explain your voice? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u198	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members. In his reply today, the Minister has opened up a topic or additional area that is crucial. In the existing balance, much less money is foreseen for roads than was the case in the past. In total, if we add up the amounts allocated less to the construction of the highway network as well as other roads, we will reach 8 billion tolars, which will have an important impact both on traffic safety on Slovenian roads and I believe in the significantly reduced flow of the Slovenian road network. As a result of smaller amounts, the dynamics of calls will be slower, and construction will therefore be slower. Of course, this affects not only tourism and other activities, but also the labour market due to reduced labour mobility and the like. From this point of view, I think it is extremely important to hold a debate on the answer, once again I stress that the Minister himself has stressed that, due to the late adoption of the balance, some work is being delayed. And a second time. The fact is that due to the significantly smaller amount earmarked for the construction of the highway network in Slovenia and for the maintenance of other roads, traffic safety as well as, of course, the speed at which individuals can come from point A to point B within the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u199	Thank you, Mr. Lakhovnik. We're voting. The vote is under way. 66 Members and Members are present. 25 votes to 40. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 40.]] I note that the proposed decision is not adopted. We continue with the 9th item of the agenda - the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the organisation and financing of education and education. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill within the framework of the reduced procedure. Since no amendments have been tabled to the amended proposal, it is not possible to table amendments in the third reading. That's why we're moving on to a decision on the law. In doing so, I inform you that the Government or the Legal and Legislative Service has not informed me that the law would be inconsistent. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. The vote is under way. 66 Members and Members are present. The vote was 42 to 14. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against the 14th.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 10th item of the agenda - the first consideration of the proposal for a law on working time and mandatory rest of mobile workers and on recording equipment in road transport. We are moving on to a decision on the next proposal for a decision. The proposal for a law on working time and compulsory rest for mobile workers and on recording equipment in road transport, the first reading, is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 64 Members and Members present. There were 46 votes against 7. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against the seven.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the law will therefore be allocated to the home working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 25. It's a day's work, mind-blowing. In the context of this item, the assembly will consider 13 proposals by the Judicial Council for election in judicial capacity, a proposal for a decision appointing the Supervisory Committee of the Agricultural Lands and Forests Fund of the Republic of Slovenia and a proposal by the President of the Republic of Slovenia to elect a candidate for a national representative in Eurojust. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on individual proposals. The Council of Justice submitted 13 proposals to the National Assembly on the election to the judicial office of the District Court of Justice at the District Court in Koper and 11 District Judges and District Court Judge at the District Court in Brežice, Celje, Maribor, Domžalah, Murski Sobota and Šmaru pri Jelšah. The proposal addressed the Commission's mandate-holder as the working body and presented proposals for conclusions to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion, so we are moving on to a decision on individual proposals for decisions. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Tatjana Škrinjar to the court seat of the District Court in the District Court in Koper. We're voting. The vote is under way. 59 present, 55 against no one. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Daniela Knez Molan to the District Court in Brežice. We're voting. The vote is under way. 57 present, 53, against no one. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Petra Kranjc to the District Court of Justice in the District Court of Celje. We're voting. The vote is under way. 59 present, 55 against no one. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Karolina Pečnik to the District Court of Justice in the District Court in Celje. We're voting. The vote is under way. 59 present, 55 against no one. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Ksenija Lorenčič as a judge of the District Court in Maribor. We're voting. The vote is under way. 59 present, 54, against no one. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I shall put to the vote a proposal for a decision on the election to the judicial function of the Magi. Simone Kolar to the court seat of the District Court in Maribor. We're voting. The vote is under way. 59 present, 55 against no one. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Lucija Semej to the District Court of Justice in the District Court of Domžal. We're voting. 57 present, 54 against no one. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Dragice Kolenc to the District Court of Justice in the District Court of Murska Sobota. We're voting. Present 60, 55, against no one. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Romane Kosorok to the District Court in the District Court in Ljubljana. We're voting. 61 present, 57 to 1. [[The vote was 57.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election to the judicial function of Mrs Andreja Sajovic as a judge of the District Court in the District Court of Ljubljana. We're voting. 59 present, 54, against no one. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election to the judicial function of Mr Aljoša Žorž as a judge of the District Court in the District Court of Ljubljana. We're voting. 57 present, 53, against no one. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Maja Manček Šporin to the District Court in the district court in Šmarje pri Jelšah. We're voting. 58 present, 54, against no one. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Leonida Jager to the District Court in the district court in Šmarje pri Jelšah. We're voting. 57 present, 54 against no one. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. We are moving on to a proposal for a decision on the appointment of the Supervisory Committee of the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal for a decision was submitted by a mandate-holder committee for consideration by the assembly. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr. Franz Sušnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u200	Thank you very much. Dear President, the House of Honor! In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we are committed to transparency and transparency in the operations of all state institutions, and we especially expect economic behaviour in the management of state assets of those institutions entrusted to them. This shall apply without exception to the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests or to the Supervisory Board of this Fund entrusted with the indirect operation of the huge assets. In the management of the fund, there are over 260 hectares of state forests and 110,000 agricultural land, the best that the fund has in management. Therefore, with responsibility and at the same time with joy in controlling the work of the Fund, we will assume the responsibility that belongs to us and which we owe to our constituents. For all of this, we will undermine the decision on the appointment of members of the Supervisory Committee of the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia, which was proposed by the Election Commission of the National Assembly for approval by the National Assembly. Taking into account the amended Statute of the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia, 2004 is the mandate of the proposed members of the Supervisory Board of the Fund for 4 years. We also support all activities of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Governments of the Republic of Slovenia in the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group to clarify all the irregularities reported in the work of the Fund, which were highlighted and carried out by the Fund's Supervisory Board or individual members in the period preceding the expiry of this last two-year term. In particular, we would like to highlight the correctness and support of the proposal to appoint members of the Council of the Agricultural Land and Forests Fund appointed or proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia with a view to ensuring as much transparency as possible and legitimacy as possible in the functioning of this Fund. We also want the newly appointed Supervisory Committee of the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests, and we expect this newly appointed Supervisory Committee to ensure efficient and transparent management of agricultural land and forests, and to certainly clarify all the many reported irregularities in the operation of the Fund in the past. In the seventh composition of the Supervisory Committee of the Fund, our proposed representatives will for the first time assume a more visible position and role, so our legitimate expectations are even greater. It is generally known that so far our representatives have generally been without support and that in the six monitoring committees so far our party has succeeded in electing only one member, which we have proposed. We are confident, however, that the newly appointed Supervisory Committee of the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests will also contribute to the regulation of the largest, most beautiful, most in the sky-inspiring problem of the management and operation of this Fund or, better said, the uneconomic treatment of Slovenian forests, which is, in fact, in a loving way, sealed legislation and also with a constitutional decision, and therefore extremely uneconomic and irrational. It is high time that this obvious and grave anomaly was eliminated. It is high time to ensure the cost-effective management of forests and also the unjustifiable wealth of forest owners entrusted with the management of these state forests, to cease irrevocably and as soon as possible, which I am deeply convinced of, and we are also convinced of in the Slovenian Democratic Party, in the interest of many forest owners, many of our electorates who are directly affected by such behaviour and are therefore subject to unfair competition. I would also like to say that we believe that there is no basis for extending the terms of office of the members of the Supervisory Committee of the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia, appointed on 19 June 2003, for a period of two years. On 19 June 2003, the Supervisory Board of the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia, which was appointed, was informed on appointment that its term of office was two years. The Council of the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests was also informed immediately before the end of the term of office by the Council of the State on the initiation of the candidature procedure, as a result of the current supervisory committee of the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia. We therefore believe that the initiative, which was transmitted five days before the end of the mandate, to extend the mandate due to a number of open issues and alleged irregularities, as they state, which have been exposed recently, is not justified or cannot be taken into account. We are convinced that it is in the interest of Slovenian agriculture to clarify all the accusations that all go on the basis of the operation of the farm and forest fund and are tended to be presented and also shown to the detriment of the Slovenian farmer and Slovenian agriculture. Therefore, the greatest contribution will be to the further development and better situation of Slovenian agriculture by the newly proposed or newly proposed members of the Supervisory Board of the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests, provided they excuse our confidence. This, however, clarified all irregularities and ensured the transparent and transparent functioning of the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u201	Thank you, Mr. Sušnik. Mr. Aloys Sok has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u202	Thank you so much for saying that. Let me briefly present the position of the New Slovenia Christian People's Party. Today we will vote in favour of the appointment of a new Supervisory Committee. This proposal, which we have been able to read to extend the mandate of the current Supervisory Committee, seems, of course, inconclusive. We expect, however, from the current Supervisory Committee, that it will report and that this report will come shortly to the National Assembly so that we can also address it in the National Assembly. I would also like to say that all these rumors, all the accusations that we have been able to hear in the last days and weeks at the expense of the Fund's work, of course, shed a very bad light on Slovenian agriculture, and with all this is a great damage to Slovenian agriculture. Of course, those who have done fair work who do not have the operation of the fund or have had nothing in the past. I say this because, I am sure, all of us in the National Assembly will insist that these charges be confirmed or rejected. Let me also say that the Supervisory Committee has, of course, produced a report every time in recent years, but there have never been any such hints in the reports of the Supervisory Board or such recommendations to the National Assembly that they are in operation of the Fund for such major irregularities. Some shortcomings have been mentioned, as is generally known, that the land situation is not regulated by the state of nature, but rather by the mortgage of a long past. We have also adopted a decision in the National Assembly every time and instructed the Fund's management that this should be addressed as soon as possible. We will see whether, from the last report to the current situation in this area, it has also improved. We also found that, for this reason, the fund never knew what kind of property it actually owned. They are not a problem of agricultural land, of course we know of this, the problem has always been unwalled building land and barren land. We are now ahead of the appointment of a new Supervisory Committee. This new Supervisory Committee will, of course, be tasked with remedying the situation and making matters transparent and transparent. Once again, it does not occur to us to extend any mandate to the current Supervisory Committee. However, I will try, as Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, to ensure that the report is dealt with as soon as possible and that the current supervisors will also be present at the hearing of the report in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u203	Thank you, Mr. Sok. The word is given by Mr. Jakob the Presbyterian. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u204	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group, we will support the composition of the members of the Supervisory Committee of the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests in the Republic of Slovenia, from which we expect them to carry out their work directly and correctly, for which they will also be appointed in this National Assembly. At the same time, we expect them to continue and complete a review of the back and thus prove or reject the accusations and rumors that have already turned into a real affair. The attack was carried out on the Slovenian People's Party, and we want things to be properly cleared. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u205	Thank you, Mr. President and. There will be a debate between Members and Members. The word has been given to you, sir. [[...]] [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and put to the vote a proposal for a decision appointing the Supervisory Committee of the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia for a period of four years. An explanation of vote, first of all, Mr. Saiovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u206	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues. In the LDS Group and on my behalf, I think it is right for the Supervisory Committee to be replaced. However, this supervisory committee, which will work for all Slovenia and for all Slovenian farmers, rural development and also for the credibility of the use of tax money, could be better composed. We in our parliamentary group do not run away from responsibility, and we will do just as all other parliamentary groups do to make matters final, to the benefit of the Slovenian farmer and to the taxpayer, but not to abuse for some internal political accounts. However, even though we have tried to ensure that one of our parliamentary groups comes to this supervisory committee on the basis of the electoral result, I think that this committee is not properly composed, it could be better, and I will, of course, oppose it.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u207	Thank you, sir. And Mr. Juban.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u208	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I have many and too many reasons to form a supervisory authority on agricultural land, although it is so composed that the LDS has no member in it. As Mr Presečnik mentioned earlier, as the People's Party has been attacked, the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia and I personally have been attacked. The denationalisation as a process, which members of the right-hand side of the political space have advocated, in particular the return in nature, has been reclassified into various purchases and resellings of land, dirt that is being wasted on Slovenia and has been mutilating the names of some of us. The distances after denationalisation later changed from four years to six months and were used to discredit various citizens, including Members. We can speculate for some reason. And the numbers that are used are taken away from the zeros and added by becoming horrendous numbers, to which the Slovenian nation is sensitive. And what is happening with us in Slovenia is rare in European democracy and I think we are crossing the borders of democracy. I will personally support this supervisory council. At the same time, I am very interested and am joining Mr Sponik's position that we will also get a commission to clear up these kinds of filth, which I am convinced that I have a complete clean conscience. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u209	Thank you, Mr. Juban. We vote on the appointment of the Supervisory Board of the Fund. There are 57 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 12. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 12.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. We move on the proposal of the President of the Republic of Slovenia to elect a candidate for national representative in Eurojust. I welcome Dr Matjaž Nahtigala, Secretary General of the Office of the President of the Republic of Slovenia. The President of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr Janez Drnovšek, proposed, pursuant to Article 6 of the Law on the Proposal of Candidates from the Republic of Slovenia for Judges of International Courts to the National Assembly, that Mrs Malči Gabrielčič be elected as a candidate for national representative in Eurojust. The proposal considered the Commission's mandate-holder as the working body of the mother. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr. Franz Sušnik has the floor. [[No, no, ……]] This concludes the debate. We are moving on to the vote. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 7 of the Law proposing candidates from the Republic of Slovenia for judges of international courts on the election, the State Assembly shall decide by secret ballot. In accordance with the first paragraph of Rule 92 of the Rules of Procedure, a secret vote shall be held by the committee composed of the Presidents and four Members elected by the National Assembly. I have already received proposals from the parliamentary groups for the members of the committee leading the vote. These are: Franc Jazbec, SDS, Rudolf Moge, LDS, Aurelio Juri, Social Democrats, and Cyril Testen, Nova Slovenija. I am also a member of this Commission as Chairman. Does anyone object to this proposal? If not, we are moving on to a decision on the composition of the commission. We're voting. Fifty present, 49, against no one. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the commission in the proposed composition has been elected. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, a vote will be delivered to the Members by each Member to the Chair's table and by giving its name and surname. It shall be voted on by surrounding the word "yes" or "against". In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 91 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the unfulfilled vote shall be invalid and the vote shall also be invalid, by which the Member's will shall not be clearly indicated. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 7 of the Law proposing candidates from the Republic of Slovenia for judges of international courts, the proposed candidate will be elected if voted for by a majority of all Members, that is 46 or more. We will vote in the Chamber in the voting booths. The Members and Members will place the completed vote in the ballot box, which will be at the table next to the voting booths. We are moving on to a secret ballot. I ask Members of Parliament to assist me in the vote to report immediately to room 217, where we will take over the electoral material. Excuse me. Since Mr Moge was not present in the appointment, I ask LDS Members, will Mr Moge be able to participate in the commission?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u210	I propose, on behalf of the LDS Group, that Mr Germič Ljubo perform this function instead of Mr Rudi Mojet.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u211	Good. Mr. Germich Ljubo, will it work? I have to put it to the vote again: instead of Mr Mojet, Mr Germić. We're voting. 51 present, for 50, against no one. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I take it that Mr Germić has been confirmed instead of Mr Mohet. The vote will begin at 3:35 p.m. and will last until 3:50 p.m. After the vote, I ask Members who will assist me in the vote to meet in room 217. We'll continue the session at 4.05 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u212	Dear Members and Members! We're moving on to the session. I will read the minutes on the outcome of the vote on candidate for national representative in Eurojust. The vote was held at the premises of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on 22 June 2005. 60 ballots were distributed. 60 ballots were delivered. There was an invalid voice page. There were 59 valid ballots. The "yes" was voted by 54 members, five members "against" were voted on. On the basis of the outcome of the vote, candidate Malča Gabrielčič was elected by the majority of the votes of all Members. I sincerely congratulate the candidate! [[Let's hear it.]] I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to Continuation 2. Agenda items - Third Defence Proposal for a Law on Temporary Protection of Displaced Persons. On Tuesday, 14.6.2005, the National Assembly held a second reading of the bill. As amendments have not been adopted to the draft law, we are moving, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, to a decision on the law. On the basis of paragraph 5 of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the legislative and legal services and the government have not warned me that the law would not be harmonised due to the amendments adopted. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. The vote is closed. I note that there were 49 Members present, 45 votes against 1. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the 4th item of the agenda - the third consideration of the proposal of the Radiotelevision Act Slovenia. On Thursday, 16.6.2005, the National Assembly held a second reading of the draft law. As amendments have not been adopted to the draft law, we are moving, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, to a decision on the law. On the basis of paragraph 5 of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the legislative and legal services and the government have not warned me that the law would not be harmonised due to the amendments adopted. Please, Mr. Potts, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u213	Thank you very much. Mr Vice-President, I reiterate that the conditions for the third examination of the law are not met. I said a few sentences about it yesterday, and I'd really rather not say them today. I repeat only that the letter sent by Mr Tsukjat to the first person, which I could only have received on the basis of a specific requirement, was that it was intended only for the first person to sign, but not for the public and Members, that it did not show exactly what the consequences of this decision were. Secondly, it is indisputably clear, and I have reviewed the documentation that the President or President has always set a deadline and a request to complete the application in similar cases. He didn't do it this time. And a third. Even if the letter of the President may be considered legally possible and formally correct, then I must say that, according to my information - not personal but newspaper - I have not notified that this letter has been delivered. And if it wasn't hot, I don't think it could have legal effects. That's what I said yesterday, and I wanted an answer to these things. I am of the opinion that the behaviour or conduct of the President, who did not consider it necessary to make his views known to these, expressed yesterday, arguments and arguments, is incorrect. To mean an ignorant attitude towards me as the proposer of these requests and to expect that the expert opinion will be given to assess whether I am changing the views I have expressed and whether the arguments are acceptable. Mr President probably thinks he'll say that in a few sentences or not. Such conduct is unacceptable. For this reason, I also today, I think that at 12:45, I requested the College of the President of the National Assembly to convene because the College is consulting on the meetings, and I say that it would be correct, not compulsory, formal, but correct, according to the content of mutual relations in this National Assembly, that it would be called upon to provide an explanation of why the conditions are fulfilled. If you, ladies and gentlemen, believe that you do not need an argument, that there is no need for written material to ensure that the conditions are met, you can also make a decision in mind. I don't want to make that decision in my head. And this, as the President of the National Assembly has done, means that he owns all the power in this national assembly, without the others being able to cooperate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u214	Thank you very much. Mr. President Tuck.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u215	Well, I did get a request this morning for a college reference on this subject. Since I cannot refer to a college during a meeting of the National Assembly, I suggest, Mr President, and you are the only one who can do so to suspend the meeting for, say, 15 minutes for consultation with the leaders of the Group of Members, where I will explain matters. And if there's a desire and a willingness, then I'll be in session. At the same time, I ask the professional services, they already have the answer of the legislative and legal service to the questions asked by Mr Potč yesterday, that they are trying to reproduce this material, which has already arrived, and also to distribute it to all Members. I therefore propose, Mr President, that you set a 15-minute pause for consultation with the leaders of the groups of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u216	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I also welcome Mr Vask Simoniti at the meeting. At the same time, on a proposal from the President of the National Assembly and in accordance with the first paragraph of Rule 73 of the Rules of Procedure, I hereby adjourn the meeting of the National Assembly and convene consultations with the heads of the parliamentary groups in room 217. We'll continue the meeting at 4:30.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u217	Dear Members and Members! We continue on the 4th item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the proposal of the Radiotelevision Act Slovenia I inform you that a meeting has been held with the President, the Vice-Presidents and the leaders of the Group of Members. And that is why I ask the President of the National Assembly, Mr Cuckati, to speak. Please, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u218	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I note that, in the meantime, it has also been shared with Members with an explanation prepared by the legal and legislative service on the basis of the questions raised by Mr Potrč yesterday. In the first point of the Legislative and Legal Service, it is clear that it is the responsibility of the President of the National Assembly to decide on the legality of the referendum initiative. And that such cases had already been in history, if the initiative had been very bad, which could not be so corrected that they would not have substantially changed the referendum issue and the signatures had to be collected again, the President of the National Assembly rejected the initiative itself. This was in the case of France Majcna of Upper Radgona, this was in the event of the rejection of Jelena Pecarič and the initiative of the New Party. So this practice has already been very rare, because even so poorly prepared referendum issues are very rare as it was. Furthermore, the legislative and legal service speaks of these acts as "sui generis", where the candidate of the referendum has the possibility of legal protection in an administrative dispute, but this does not delay the procedure. This is important. This does not hold back the procedure for further consideration in the National Assembly. Furthermore, with regard to the service of the decision or notification to the initiator, the legislative and legal service clearly states that it is an act which is not directly governed by the rules of the administrative procedure. For the Law of Referendum and Human Initiative is "lex specialis" and in this case it is not possible to apply the rules on the service of applications to the parties. And it concludes the legislative and legal service like this. "If, in a particular case, the President has not set a time limit for collecting signatures in support of the referendum request and the initiator has travelled abroad, of course, there can be no reason to postpone the legislative procedure. If the initiator does not pursue his own interest and is at a time when he knows that he will be informed of the decision on his initiative abroad, this cannot and must not affect the further procedure of the legislative procedure or the work of the national assembly." Your Honor! When we completed our second reading of the law, we said that we would continue to do so when the business and legal circumstances were met. And these have now been fulfilled or have been fulfilled on Monday. Article 139 of the Rules of Procedure states in the first paragraph: "If no amendment has been adopted in the second reading of the amended law, the State Assembly shall, at the same meeting, proceed to a vote on the law." In the case of the Radiotelevision Act, Slovenia has not adopted any amendments, i.e. by the Rules of Procedure, if the conditions are met, we must consider and adopt it at this meeting. Unless, of course, there is a procedural proposal to move the decision to one of the following meetings. That's certainly possible. This is said to be the case with regard to Mr Potrč's initiative, which is correct, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, but it is an initiative to vote. Although the explanation for his initiative is not good. Let me also mention that I read in Del yesterday: "Mrs. Mrs. Maja Shirtz thought that the Tsukati could propose to supplement the issue and not to reject it." Or: "The leader of the members of the Social Democrats, Miran Potrč, estimated that Sugar should take into account the practice so far when the initiators of the referendums could complement the issue in the case of vague proposals." I think that these are incorrect statements, or probably very correctly summarised by the work, but the statements are incorrect. And such statements that he should do something that is contrary to the law, because if he allowed the signatures to be collected or the procedure to continue, he would violate the referendum law and the human initiative, which clearly states what the proposal for a referendum question should be. And such observations continue, which is not good, that is, the evidence that we have heard in the past and that is likely to be with some special report from the Ombudsman, which the Committee will not conclude and will be clear why I will not include him in the meeting of the National Assembly. So much for me. I believe that the law meets the options, we can continue, but of course this is our decision whether or not we will continue.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u219	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Potch, please, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u220	Thank you very much. First of all, thank you to the President for the information he has given you to all and indirectly to me. The content of this information is on my mind and in five minutes I cannot make a statement. I'm still saying what I said yesterday. And once again, I made an announcement yesterday just so that I could be prepared for an appropriate response. I must say, I don't know who took 20 hours to answer: either the job or Mr President to give it to us. In any case, it is incorrect that I do not have the opportunity to examine because there are claims in this reply that need to be verified. I, Mr President, argue that in similar cases, in general, the President has often acted in such a way that he has demanded the addition of the application. You are here in a letter of three cases that I do not know whether the legal and actual situation is similar or not. One I know isn't because I've studied it myself, and what's written here is misleading. On the part of the services of deception, because when the same request was made twice, the President of that time rejected it and said that he could not because it would constitute an abuse of the right to referendum. That's not what this is about. I haven't studied the other cases. So I think it would be appropriate to give us the opportunity to study things first, and I ask that you give us not to study half an hour, but at least one day, as the service had the right to prepare the answer to your demands. And this is my procedural proposal right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u221	Thank you very much, Mr. Potch. A proposal was submitted for half an hour [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u222	I ask that we not be given half an hour, but at least one day, as the job was given an opportunity or to Mr. President to inform us of what we did yesterday. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u223	Thank you very much. Mr Potsch's proposal was submitted. I think that this proposal should be put to the vote by the Rules of Procedure. Although I warn you, tomorrow is not the day for the National Assembly meeting. Do you insist on this proposal, Mr. Potsch? [[Yeah.]] I'm putting the motion to a vote. We're voting. The procedure is underway. The vote is closed. 67 Members and Members voted. It was 20 to 43. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 43.]] I note that the proposal made by Mr Contributes that this decision should be postponed is not adopted. Procedural question, Mr. Potch.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u224	First of all, I note that we do not have the right of Members and Members of the opposition to examine the arguments put forward by the Office and Mr President for the decision taken. This is the method of working on this national council, in which the arguments apply nothing but the number of Members and Members. For this reason, I have no reason not to think the same as last night that conditions were not created and that it is not possible to make a decision at third reading. For this reason, I propose that the decision on the law on public RTV be postponed to one of the following meetings during the third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u225	I am putting the proposal to the vote. Members of the group before this, please, if they can decide, or if each member group has three minutes to give its opinion. Please. Mr. Skolč on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u226	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u227	Mr. Skolč on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u228	It's not possible at this point, if I understand.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u229	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u230	See, a few of the few colleagues are here that you will remember that I myself have led the National Assembly and that the practice of these problems of solving good and bad initiatives around the referendum has been curbed. Therefore, I can assure you that Mr President has misunderstood what his colleagues have told him in Del, that it is possible to correct a single initiative for the referendum and that this would constitute a violation of the law. That's not true. This has happened many times and it has happened even when the text was even less clear than what we have, I will say, now behind us. It was therefore the expectation of both the signatories and those colleagues who had made themselves known in advance, and in some ways mine, too, that the President would take advantage of the opportunity offered by the law to invite the signatories to a clearer formulation of the issue. Undoubtedly, he also had a basis in the position drawn up by the legislature, at least as regards the first question. He did not do so, so the question is, of course, why he did so. The President of the National Assembly shall be a member of the Slovenian Democratic Party. As a member, I believe he may have some obligation and tasks as a party soldier. On the other hand, Mr Cukjat is also the President of the National Assembly and from this point of view they are, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] I will say, the expectations of all Members and Members in this assembly, regardless of whether they then cast their vote for him, justifiably such that he is the President of the National Assembly, but not, I will say, one of the exposed to use the metaphor, the fists of the party. [[...]] And that's why I think it's just wrong. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] That he did, and I support that these things move so that we can all study them normally so that we can argue about them. [[...]] We do not have the possibility of doing so in the National Assembly in one way or another according to the Rules of Procedure, but the shadow of the decision of their party's summit would be rejected.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u231	Mr. Skolč [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u232	If we vote today, it means that this national assembly is ruled by the Yanshe Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u233	Thank you very much, Mr. Sculpture. Ma'am mag. Tremendous, Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u234	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. In the Socialist Group of Members, we believe that the conditions for voting on the law on radio broadcasting in the third reading are not met. It is true that when we were still the United List of Social Democrats, we advocated amending the legislative provisions concerning the referendum, because we have found that, especially when it comes to the previous legislative referendum, there is no way to avoid the impression that this institution has been misused. However, allow me, the initiative for the previous legislative referendum has been launched, the signatures are here, the question is raised, and here I have another question. The reference to the fact that the question is not adequately raised - in one part yes, in the other part - and the reference to the legislative and legal service, so that the addition of the issue can only be editorial in nature, at least as far as my memory is concerned, cannot stand. I recall at least two cases of requests or initiatives for a referendum where the applicants were given the opportunity to complement or amend the question. This is at least a referendum on railways, if I say so simply, and a referendum on trade, not to mention everyone else, because it could be done. Therefore, I believe that the requirement was to examine carefully the response of the legislative and legal service, which is linked to whether the conditions for the third reading have been met or not. The relevant majority in this National Assembly has decided differently, and the views of the Social Democrats on meeting the conditions remain the same as they were before; therefore, we still believe that the conditions are not met. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u235	Thank you very much, Mrs. Potrata. Mr Pece, Slovenian National Party, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u236	Your Honors are here! He is probably not naive in this Chamber, which would believe in the reality of an open debate, which would believe in the interest of the proposer of this procedural proposal, that he really cares about whether democracy is okay. We are probably all aware that the problem is only one way to bring about the procedure for the adoption of that law. And there is no other concern, at least after the assessment of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, since the fact is that procedural proposals, requests, whatever they are called, only point to the right of one of us, is the President of the National Assembly. The President of the National Assembly, whether or not appropriate to you, has the right and duty to inform the proposer of the referendum initiative or to collect signatures of what will happen to his initiative. This is the right or exclusive duty of the President of the National Assembly. And whether the President's decision will please Mr Ptræ or Mr Školč - I do not think this is a debate of the National Assembly. I'd like to point out two more from this place, within the time I have. According to my assessment or an assessment of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, we were a little surprised at the fact that it was precisely those types that usually advertised the need for a culture of dialogue in this house, that one president of the National Assembly, who is only an institution, is almost alone, at least in the case of the referendum law and of the people's initiative, is called out, without any concern or protest by any of the Members, a soldier of the National Assembly. I wonder if anyone in the National Assembly will come forward and defend the first one of us on the side of those so-called self-proclaimed moralists and the only normal communicators. But, of course, so far it hasn't happened. In my opinion, it's a bad thing to call it, like it's a bad thing. But these titles are obviously the practice of the National Assembly. However, not to talk too much about this, I will just say that we will not object to the proposal in the National Party itself, just as we do not mind if we conclude the legislative process today in the context of the national assembly meeting. We believe only in one thing - that we are paid or called to this work, however you like it, in order to adopt as many laws as possible, and not to dictate to each other, and in exchange for seeking some third interests, we adapt or create a national assembly as some kind of our own sandbox. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u237	Thank you very much. I think that the debate between the representatives of the parliamentary groups has been exhausted. Please, procedurally?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u238	No, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u239	Then please [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u240	Should I read the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u241	I think the motioner still has the right to explain. Please, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u242	Yeah, yeah. Thank you very much. Thank you so much for letting me. [[Back-up advertising.]] Can you explain to Mr. Sok that I may speak?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u243	Mr. Run, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u244	Thank you very much. As the applicant, I further justify the reason for the postponement. I think it is unfair that this national assembly is not allowed to consider a decision. I would like to say that I am not alone and that we are neither legal nor political advocates and representatives of the proposed and the first-signed Group of Social Democrats, and that we have not had any contact in this regard. However, the initiative is being tabled. But it is true that we have something in common with them: we believe that the content of the law is inadequate, and we think it would be good if we listened to foreign experts, too, if we listened to the president of the country who said yesterday that he was probably not in such a hurry. If we were to create an atmosphere of mutual tolerance and, above all, images, simplified to say, in which three days, the government would be able to call for a new call and ensure its control of RTV, it would not be so important that we could not wait three days. And if we can wait three days, then it is possible to accept our proposal, and postpone it, that we will examine together thoroughly what the legislative and legal service has told us, and that we will see all other options thoroughly. If this seems so terrible to you and you have to look for a dot and a letter and a comma in the law, and be like, who says "scroller" in order to find arguments for your explanation, and I tell you, there is no jurist who can't make at least two explanations from one article. And each one will be justified. This one can also be justified. Only the justified can be different. And it goes beyond legal formalities to some political goodwill. That's what we're fond of if she's willing. But if not, and I say it again, and we think we have to decide today so we can call tomorrow - I'm kidding because it won't be so literal. Because only all procedures apply before the law is published, but also in 'catin legis'; but if this is so important, then, ladies and gentlemen - decide. And I would ask that we not be accused by those colleagues and colleagues of being unkind, who most of the unfriendly speech in this national assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u245	Thank you very much. We are moving to a vote on Mr Potrč's proposal to postpone the decision on the proposal for a law on Radiotelevision of Slovenia to one of the next meetings of the National Assembly. We're voting. The vote is under way. I note that 67 Members and Members voted. There were 24 against 42. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 42.]] I would like to point out that Mr President's proposal that the decision on the proposal for a Radiotelevision Act of Slovenia be decided at one of the following meetings of the National Assembly has not been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law on Radiotelevision of Slovenia. We're voting. [[...]] [[A voice in the background.]] Please. [[...]] I'm calling off the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u246	Thank you very much. I would ask that you allow Members of Parliament and Members who so decide to have the opportunity to explain their vote. At the same time, I will say, on behalf of the Group of Members, that when the vote is joined, our Group, after explaining the reasons why, will not cooperate, because we believe that the procedure followed by the third reading of this Act is unreputable, politically and legally, for this National Assembly. And we don't want to wear anything for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u247	Thank you very much. You want a word?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u248	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. On behalf of the LDS Group of Members also [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u249	Please. First, an explanation on behalf of the groups of Members. The explanation of the vote, then one at a time, then we move on to the decision. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u250	I have a procedural proposal in the sense that the LDS Group also notes that there are no conditions for deciding on this law. We need time to consult in the parliamentary group on how to proceed. Even now, we are also predicting that we are likely to obstruct this decision, and we are now predicting that we will examine all the remedies available to us in order to reach a referendum on this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u251	Thank you very much. Who else, on behalf of the Group of Members, would please explain the vote? Here you go, Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u252	Thank you so much for saying that. In New Slovenia, we will support the bill. However, I must say in fact that we are concerned or that we are surprised that the opinion of law enforcement experts suddenly means nothing in this national assembly. Therefore, it follows from the two letters of the legislative and legal service that the State assembly may at this time continue to decide in the third stage of the procedure. Yes, you can. In the first opinion, it is stated that the referendum issue is so flawed and irregular that it cannot be rectified and carried out by a referendum [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u253	Can I help you, please? I have one comment as chairman. I ask for explanations of vote, and please, no other debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u254	President, because that's the explanation, because it's obvious here that we're going to adopt law in the third phase when there's no conditions for it. What I'm trying to say is that there are conditions for this. These conditions, which stem from these two letters from the Legal and Legislative Service, I want to explain. And I believe more what is written here than what Mr Ptrč teaches us. Thank you very much. We will vote and support this proposal, but of course we understand that you will cause procedural complications as far as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u255	Anyone else, please, on behalf of the Group of Members? Mr. Brenčič, a procedural question.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u256	I understand, the institute of voice explanations is exclusive by predicting obstruction. In fact, we explain our vote that we will vote in favour or against. That is to say, if we abstain from voting, we have no right to this institution. This has always been the case in the Rules of Procedure, and so I think it stands today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u257	I would like to say that, in my explanation of vote, I have not yet fully been able to see that this is going to be an obstruction, which is why this has also been accepted. But when there's obstruction, I think you're right and you said it right. Anyone else on behalf of the delegation? Mr. Kumer, Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u258	Thank you for your word. We would explain the voice if we had the opportunity to study some things, as colleague Potrč suggested, and we do not have this option in this process. I myself will state three reasons why the Social Democrats' Group does not support this proposal. With so many comments, it's a real farce to say it's a great marriage. It should be noted that only the source of the drafting of the law is wrong. Without any prior analysis, a proposal has been made to amend the law. So it's a whole new marriage. For one purpose, to those who are always tempted by politicians and politicians: to submit to the media in their struggle for power. The consequences will be a number of staff exchanges in this house. If we draw a parallel to the practice of the ruling coalition by what it does in the economic services and companies, to first replace the supervisory board and then the administration, this RTV house will also be affected. The only difference will be that all the editors have one supervisory committee, this is the Director-General of RTV, and this will also be done. The same shall apply to the Programme Board and the Supervisory Board. It's one of the worst solutions in this marriage. The Programme Council will have the function of a debate club without any specific competence. In addition to supervisory tasks, the Supervisory Board will also have a management function. So he's gonna make a lot of decisions, and then he's gonna keep an eye on himself. 9 of the 11 members shall be appointed by the ruling coalition to this Supervisory Committee. Public RTV is thus becoming one of the services or offices of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be headed by the Director-General. And in the end. Those who claim that when this National Assembly appoints most members of the Programme Council, this Programme Council will, of course, be apolitical or depoliticised. The most political body in the country is this National Assembly. And most in this National Assembly, the coalition, have so far proved that it is indeed, as I have said many times before, for a well-educated and obedient political class. In short, this law, if adopted, is a hateful takeover of RTV from the public's hands and a day into the hands of the once-in-a-lifetime ruling coalition in this National Assembly. It's crazy and it's crazy again.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u259	Thank you very much. Anyone else on behalf of the delegation? Mr. Znidarsich. Excuse me, Mr. Znidarsich. On behalf of the Group of Members, Mr Grims - he was earlier.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u260	Thank you for your word. Good bye to all of you! We will, of course, support the law in the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, because we are convinced that it is good for us to receive public broadcasting, which will be open to all, for different opinions, and which will, of course, enable citizens and citizens to be as objectively and comprehensively informed as possible about all social life issues and therefore be able to participate in all these decisions, as the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia provides. The law proposed by the government is European comparable. Especially in the part where it talks about the composition and the way in which public authorities are formed, which can be seen by anyone who looks at a comparison with the countries of the European Union, with those who have a long tradition of democracy. As regards the politicisation that has been reported, let me say that those who speak about it themselves have proposed that these appointments be fully carried out by the President of the country, who, as you know, was the president of a political party for many years. And if you look at the previous president, it's the same thing. That's what you're saying. It's about, let's put it mildly, double criteria. Surely no institution is so democratically elected and enjoys as many legitimacys as the National Assembly, in which all those who have passed the test in direct elections are represented in a secret vote. An additional argument, which particularly convinces us that it is reasonable and necessary to adopt this law as soon as possible, was, when I met on Monday, at their request, with representatives of trade unions and also the Council of Radiotelevision Workers of Slovenia, and where they felt that it was necessary for the current management crisis to end as soon as possible and therefore that the adoption of the new law is also in the interest and in particular in the interest of employees in the public service of RTV Slovenia. With these arguments, it is said by European comparability, with the interest of the best possible functioning of the public institution RTV Slovenia, and of course by the fact that the new, now proposed law is also excellently prepared in the light of the Constitutional Court's decision, which made it clear that the current law, the now applicable law on RTV Slovenia, is in violation of the Constitution, will therefore be voted in favour of the new law on RTV Slovenia in the SDS Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u261	Thank you. A representative of the DeSUS Group, Master Žnidaršič, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u262	Thank you very much. Our parliamentary group will support this law, even though it has had doubts about the content of this law. And I must say that she may not be fully satisfied with what has arisen after a long debate and with all the controversy that has been going on in this sense. It is true that most of our electorates care little about who will sit in the monitoring council or in the programming world of Radiotelevision Ljubljana, but they are more interested in what the program is, how much it costs, and can then be re-elected or against those who have passed the law in elections. Unfortunately, in the last state elections, 40 percent of the people showed that they didn't care. If we still measure the weight of the result in the elections, it means that the vast majority don't care what happens. And the opportunity at each election will be to reward or punish those who make decisions in one way or another. Although we do not claim that the main argument may not have been in the drafting and adoption of this law by the majority we have in this coalition, we will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u263	Thank you very much. These were the explanations of the representatives of the parliamentary groups. Anybody else want to explain their voice? Mr. Gulic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u264	Dear President, esteemed colleagues, colleagues! I will vote against it, but there are more reasons. Let me write them down. One last said a few minutes ago is because the first one of the same has instructed us how to vote, saying that we must deal with the law today and adopt it. It was clear after the vote that we had to deal with it. But that we have to accept it, I don't think I can accept that kind of guidance. The second reason, which is also important, is that the whole process of the adoption of this law has been mildly said to be very violent. That, in fact, it was constantly being convinced of what was not written in the law. The law expresses very strong personalisation, the personalisation of programming and business decisions. Everything is brought to one summit and from there follows the apparent preservation of the right to information and the right to information. In particular, the law allows for the elimination of all possibilities for the right to information and information. In fact, the false offer of unfiltered transfers, I don't know what it is, of course, is far from the right to information. We can look at all the time, and who will be watching all these things all day, and more. And that's not all. There's other stories in the back. There are those stories in the back, such as those of our colleague Gez Juban, that we must now follow these goods that were imposed upon him, and we cannot see the end of them. From the osars you can also cut skeletons nicely, and there is some with "celectaria", to offer another. The third reason, I'm just saying, is that one of the top political officials in this country told me last time that I'm an enemy, that I'm his enemy, like everyone else, and it's clear that he's not preparing his enemies. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u265	Mr Gulic [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u266	Nothing good. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u267	Thank you very much. Mr Saiovic, please, has the word, I give Mr Sayovic, raised his hand first. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u268	Thank you very much. Dear Presidents, colleagues and colleagues! I will also oppose the law today, as I have opposed it all the time, because I think we have far more important issues in this country than we have to deal with television as a priority. Above all, I am assessing from my own experience how bad it is when the policy is to treat any media, whether it is national or local. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u269	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Brenčič, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u270	Mr Vice-President, I still don't understand how we handle this. If a representative or a member of the Liberal Democracy Club has announced obstruction, then there is no explanation for the vote that anyone will vote against. It's not! It's an abuse of rules!
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u271	Mr. Brenčič, I heard the word "probably," not "sure." So please, probably obstruction doesn't mean obstruction. Please, that's what happened. We'll do the right thing, don't worry. Anyone else want a word? Mr. Sculpture.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u272	Thank you very much. There will be no mistake if we take part in this vote, then I will vote against this law on my own, for a simple reason, because it allows for the acquisition of public RTV by a victorious political coalition. There's no question that someone's won the election. It's disputed that they're taking what doesn't belong to them. It belongs to the government. It doesn't belong to the public service. That being the case, Mr Grimes, who is already negotiating with the unions about this "kind" takeover, proves this. This takeover, however, will evidently take place in a way that would otherwise cover the national assembly, perhaps a fairy - tale society, such as the Grimm brothers. As it turned out, the world for higher education was entirely scavengered by a society of mathematicians, physicists and astronomers. The law there speaks of large professional references and recruits members from the reserve echelon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u273	Thank you very much. We're moving on to decision-making. Here you go, Mrs. Bebler, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u274	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word. In accordance with Rule 73 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that you give us a 15-minute recess to decide in the Group of Members on our continued participation in this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u275	I'll settle your requests and order a recess. [[...]] [[Back-up advertising.]] Excuse me? Yeah, if it's in that context, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u276	Thank you, Madam President, for giving me the opportunity to speak up on the position of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u277	Excuse me, I asked you if it was in this context, because Mrs. Bebler's [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u278	I'd like to explain my position. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u279	Yeah, I know, but she was right in front of you, she suggested, and there's no discussion about it. I've set a 15-minute break. Please meet me here in 15 minutes. That's 17.33.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u280	We're moving on to the 4th item of the agenda. I'd like to ask a representative of the House of Members of the Liberal Democracy if he says he wants to.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u281	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. On behalf of the LDS Club, I declare the following. Furthermore, while we continue to insist on the assessment that the conditions for the third reading of this Act have not been laid down, we also insist on the assessment that the law is totally inappropriate to accept, that it is undemocratic, that all procedures have also been carried out undemocraticly from the beginning to the end with regard to it, that we resent the President of the National Assembly, who has not done everything to allow the initiative of civil proponents to carry out the referendum to be carried out, because we believe that he could do so out of good will. We believe that it is in fact an obvious political takeover of public RTV, so we do not want to participate in the decision-making process, in the adoption of such a law, which will also give such political takeover some kind of democratic facade. Furthermore, I now announce that we will also obstruct the next item on the agenda, as similar arguments also apply to the next law that is under way today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u282	Thank you very much. There's no more explanation for the voice. A pause was set before the vote, so I can no longer give an explanation for the vote. We're voting. Please. Breakup. Is it a procedural question? Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u283	Dear Vice-President, President! We're being blamed for something. At the same time, Mrs. Bebler and I raised our hand. She was given the right to speak, you take her away from me. Are we in the temple of democracy, or are we in some kind of barn? I'd like to say how I feel about this marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u284	Perhaps I didn’t hear or know or didn’t say that you wanted to explain your voice. If you said that, we'd have a word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u285	May I explain my voice? We are in the Slovenian National Party for change, but the bias of the national RTV house is very great. In particular, it manifests itself in a poor attitude towards small customers. And many times we've been played, many times we've been pushed into the background in very important subjects. The great ones were present in the media space many times, and the wide, small few times. The protection of the Slovenian language as defined in Article 5 of the Media Act is not respected. Here from this town I have repeatedly warned the Minister that a respected Article 5 which clearly states that a publisher registered in the Republic of Slovenia and implementing regional programmes must respect the Slovenian language. Slovenia travels to Cyprus because it is a tricycle of this program in Italian. We have not yet received an answer to this question. Financing, which is the most controversial factor in this article, is the most insidious of these regional, student, local, radio and television stations with special status. We want to say that there is also a violation of Articles 149 and 162 of the Media Act, because there is no release of certain money that should be released. Finally, we do not want to express our disagreement in the same way as most of the opposition. We want to act in Parliament, so we will stay in this Chamber and vote against this law because we think it is bad. Our disagreement is basically stated in the fact that a great injustice is actually committed by regional, student and local [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] RTV institutions that have a special status under the law because they are not allowed funding and have no means of survival. [[...]] We will come to have only one medium and no more in Slovenia. That's a lot of guilt.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u286	Thank you very much. I'd like to say the following. Since the situation was previously overheated and there was also a misunderstanding, I should not have given you a word after a certain pause requested by the parliamentary group. That is why I have given you the exception and never again, now a word, but I also give an exceptional word to Mr Grimes, who raised his hand. This concludes the explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u287	Thank you for your word. Allow a colleague, just [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u288	Procedural, please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u289	I've made myself known. [[...]] [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u290	Mr. Grimes, you spoke. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u291	Colleagues, if you'll excuse me. I gave an explanation earlier. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u292	on behalf of the parliamentary group [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u293	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Members, then I also wanted to make myself known in order to speak on my own behalf. [[...]] In order to avoid this complication now, I am withdrawing the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u294	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to explain their voice? If I've allowed and made an exception, I'm asking if anyone else wants to explain their voice. Procedural? Anybody else want to explain their voice? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. The vote is under way. Voting adjourned. I find that there were 47 votes in favour, 43 against 3. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the 5th item of the agenda - the third consideration of the proposal for a law on the registration of the same-sex partnership community. On Thursday 16.6.2005, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. Since amendments were adopted in the second reading to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill, the assembly decided, on a proposal from the drafter, that the third consideration of the draft law would be carried out at that meeting on the basis of Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments had been tabled before the beginning of the consideration of the bill, the assembly will hold only a full debate on the draft law. Does anyone want a word about this? I guess not. Since no one wants to discuss it, I am concluding a full debate on the bill. On the basis of paragraph 5 of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the legislative and legal services and the government have not warned me that the law would not be harmonised due to the amendments adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group. Please, SNS, Mr. Zagorac.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u295	Thank you for your word. We will not support the law in the Slovenian National Party for several reasons. The first reason why we will not support this law is certainly because we are still convinced that the law is totally unnecessary and that there are many other areas for which, I think, at least the government should have more understanding. I am still convinced today, and in the Slovenian National Party we are convinced that the law has arisen under pressure from a small marginal group of people. However, I must say that we agree with the part of the law that allows these people to be listed or registered. I am sure that the law gives this group too many rights, and this is also one of the reasons why we will not support this law. If you'll allow me, I would only touch on the readings I've been given, because when I present the position of the parliamentary group in the second reading of the law, I call these people gays and lesbians. You know, in the environment I come from, we call them gays and lesbians. In Primorsk, they're kulatinas and in Ljubljana they're gays. I'm just a man who doesn't change his language and speech when he comes to Ljubljana. In Styrian, we have gays and lesbians. And I think that's still a nicer expression than those used by those who wanted to give the law even more validity and those people even more rights and called them different, they, those, all the other ones, just not what they called. We're called heterosexuals, they're just same-sex partners, gays in Styria, and cults in Primorska. I'll vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u296	Thank you so much for those nice words. Is there anyone else on behalf of the parliamentary group? [[Nobody.]] Anybody else want to explain their voice? Mr. Friend, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u297	Thank you, Chairman. There is probably no one in this room who would like to have his own fruit of love, which would be as defined as we vote with rights today. In other words, none of us would want to have a son or a daughter to identify herself as such. I am thinking and I will vote against this because I am sure, as my colleague Barovic has already pointed out, that if our homeless can go with a belly for bread to Finland and beyond, these ladies and gentlemen can also report to Finland or Denmark, where this is an individual's free judgment. Last but not least, the most damaged children would be children who would be adopted by these laws, because imagine a child in a school that would be brought by a father who would greet him: "Hey, I've come for you. Are you dressed yet?" I think he'd be played, ridiculed, humiliated, I don't know if that's [[....]] What we are deciding today I do not think is appropriate law for this temple, so I will vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u298	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u299	I would like to say on my behalf that I will vote in favour of this law. At the same time, I would like to distance myself from such a way of speaking that it will not be wrong to sympathize with this and with such an act. It's just that we have one important decision ahead of us. We in this government coalition have decided to settle this area, to settle it in a dignified, human-worthy way. This is a law called the Registration Act of the same-sex partner community. This is not a law on marriage or something similar, which the opposition wanted to enforce here and which, in fact, this opposition, which was 12 years ago, was unable to do in 12 years. I am proud to be a member of this ruling coalition that will resolve this issue. But there's something I'd like to draw your attention to. Now we will adopt this law and then we can, in both the ruling coalition and those in the opposition in one year's time, determine in two years how many of these same-sex communities will actually be registered under this registration law. I look forward to seeing this information where we are in fact in this area and what the needs in this direction are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u300	Thank you very much. Mr. Battelli has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u301	Mr Vice-President, I do not think that in the National Assembly there should be any violation of the dignity of the human person. And please, when this happens, I ask you and the others who are chairing to intervene when it's obvious that this is what's happening.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u302	Thank you very much. I can tell you my personal opinion, which I said a few days ago from the bench. I think the belief I expressed in this is valid. If anyone hasn't heard that, I'm so sorry. We're all adults. Please, who else?
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u303	Thank you very much. I will support the law, but with the genuine purpose of resolving with this law a social issue that remains unresolved in this society. If nothing else, in the normative area, which includes the minimum consequences and property legal matters that we as a society are willing to admit to two people when living together. I'm talking about people. And this law is meant for people, not to do statistics on it. And that is the kind of mission I want for this marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u304	Thank you very much. Mr. Tanko's already raised his hand. Then Mr. Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u305	Thank you so much for saying that. We will support this law in the parliamentary group. I must say that we are pleased that the social issue, as said by my colleague Brenčič, which has been hidden for many years, has been much more open to problems like this, even though the coalition, which consisted of the previous governments, has not been able to solve it. And I am glad that in these first months, or in the first half of the government's active work, it has also been so important that it has been accepted by the government, the right government, and I hope that things will continue to be complemented and regulated. It is important that this first step, which has been taken so far for eight or ten years despite the two-thirds, not particularly large, has not been successful by most governments, which have been extremely favoured by marginal groups and have been very eager to be interviewed and have very much appreciated for many years and have not been able to make a minimum step in this area in order to introduce the law into their mandate. As it is said, the law has been proposed by this government, it has been relatively quickly adopted, I know that it is not comprehensive, it is not perfect, but a key step has been taken which provides opportunities for significant improvement in regulation and life in this area.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u306	Thank you very much. Mr. Grimes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u307	Thank you for your word. The law before us today is a compromise, a result of coordination within the government, as well as with other entities concerned by this law. I will personally do as my support to this government obliges me, which, of course, came from the very vote for the government when this government stood up. In doing so, let me just say that I regret a great deal of what has been said on this subject, as well as other things, in this national assembly in an inappropriate way. However, I am convinced that this is to a large extent the result of the actions of those who have used this and other subjects for political battles and abuses, but they had power and could have arranged it long ago if they had the genuine will to do so. Now we are trying our best to do this in the current government coalition. Unfortunately, the ones I was talking about are not with us this time, because they went to their world at full time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-07.ana.u308	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to explain their voice? [[No, no, ……]] Let's move on to decision-making. We're voting. I'm guessing there were 48 votes in favour of 44 against 3. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against three.]] I therefore note that the law has been adopted. I conclude the 7th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia.
