ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-28-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u1	Dear Members and honourable Members, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 10th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Anton Anderlič, Bogdan Barovic, Only Bevk, Mag. Milan M. Cvikl by 12:00 hours, Dr. Slavko Gaber, Ljubo Germič, Ferry Horvat, Ivan Jelen, Bojan Kontič, Maria Possonec, Dr. Mitja Slavinec from 12.00 p.m., Flower Zalokar Orazem and Janko Weber. We're moving to 18. Period of the day - defences the bill of compensation for the victims of criminal acts. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to a government representative for further explanation. Here you go, Mr. Marolt.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-28-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and honourable Members! The current Slovenian legislation does not fully govern the State's obligation to compensate for the damage suffered by a person as a victim of a violent crime. The specificisation of the State's obligation to ensure effective security is already laid down in Article 156 of the Bond Code. In accordance with that Article, the State or one which should be prevented under the applicable rules is responsible for the damage caused by death or bodily injury resulting from acts of terrorism and public demonstrations or manifestations. The victim of a criminal offence may, as an injured person, claim damages from the perpetrator of a criminal offence by motion in criminal or judicial proceedings. In order to regulate that area and to transpose the provisions of the Council of the European Union Directive on compensation for victims of crime into the Slovenian legal order, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has prepared a proposal for a law on compensation for victims of crime. The State must ensure, in accordance with the requirements of the Directive, that the victim has the opportunity to seek compensation from the authority in the country of his permanent residence if the offence has been committed on its territory. This means that it is necessary to ensure that claims for compensation are made by the victim who is a national of the Republic of Slovenia or of another Member State of the European Union. If a crime has been committed in another Member State of the European Union, our citizens have the right to claim compensation from that country and, for the purpose of the directive, they are provided with the possibility of filing a claim for compensation in our country with the Ministry of Justice. The bill lays down the right to compensation for victims of violent acts and their owners, the procedure for the exercise of those rights, and the authorities which decide and participate in the decision-making process on those rights. In order for the applicant to be entitled to compensation under this Act, formal conditions must be met: the applicant must be a national of the Republic of Slovenia or a national of another Member State of the European Union. And the material conditions to be met for the recognition of compensation are: that a violent act has been committed against the applicant, i.e. an act which has signs of a criminal offence which, by criminal law, can be committed by force or violation of sexual inviolability and which may be sentenced to imprisonment for more than one year, after the act has been committed in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, that the act has been detected or the competent authority as a criminal offence, that there are no circumstances on the part of the injured party which, by virtue of the bond law, cannot be required to recover the damage caused by the act, the applicant has suffered a physical injury, a health injury or mental pain that the applicant has been recognised by this law as a result of the act. If the death of a person is a result of a criminal offence, the rights under this law may be exercised by the relatives, these are the persons who have died and those who have had the right under the law to demand its survival. The compensation will be recognised for the following types of damage: physical pain or damage to health, mental pain, loss of survival, treatment costs, funeral expenses, damage to destroyed things, costs of applying compensation. The compensation will only be recognised if the applicant is not entitled to compensation for these types of damage on the basis of other legal titles, such as the Health Insurance Act, the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. An application for compensation will be submitted by the applicant on the prescribed form at the Ministry of Justice within six months of the date of the offence. Beneficiaries will also be able to claim compensation under this Act for acts committed between 1 July 2005 and the entry into force of this Act, which is in accordance with the requirement of the Directive, second paragraph of Article 18. The competent decision-making authorities on the application for compensation will be decided by the special interdisciplinary commission appointed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for a term of four years. The President of the Commission will be the Chief or Senior Civil Law Judge and the remaining members will be appointed from the Chief or Senior State Prosecutors, experts in the field of medical injury, healthcare and insurance professionals and experts in the field of pension and disability insurance. In accordance with the Directive it is also necessary to establish subsidiary bodies, so the draft law provides for the police and the Ministry of Justice, which will also carry out technical and administrative tasks and tasks of the Central Contact Service, i.e. to cooperate with the competent authorities of other Member States of the European Union. The compensation for victims of crime shall be financed from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. To this end, the resources for the payment of compensation and the resources for the work of the Commission under their financial plan will be provided by the State Defence Office of the Republic of Slovenia. The primary responsibility for the recovery of the damage caused to the victim of the crime is on the part of the perpetrator, and the law also regulates the procedure that, after recognition of compensation under this law, the State shall require the offender to reimburse the compensation paid. The claim of the beneficiary against the perpetrator of a violent act shall go to the amount of compensation recognised under this Act to the Republic of Slovenia from the date of enforcement of the decision on the recognition of rights under this Act. With the transfer of claim to the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia enters the position of beneficiary in relation to the perpetrator of the violent act as creditor to the amount of funds paid on the basis of the decision on the recognition of compensation under this Act. The Republic of Slovenia shall have the right to request the refund of the funds increased for the relevant interest and for the costs of the proceedings paid under this Act if the rights have been obtained on the basis of false data or if the beneficiary has not communicated the facts to the Commission which affect the acquisition of rights under this law. In accordance with the provisions of Article 18 of the Directive, Member States must implement the laws, regulations and administrative provisions necessary to comply with the Directive by 1 January 2006 at the latest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-28-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u3	Thank you, Mr. Marolt. The draft law was also considered by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a working mother. I ask the chairman of the committee, Mrs Mojco Kucler Dolinar, to present the Committee's report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-28-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u4	Thank you very much, President. Nice greetings to representatives from the Ministry, the Secretary of State and his associates. Nice greetings from my colleague and colleagues. At its 12th emergency meeting, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice considered a proposal for a law on compensation for victims of crime. In its supplementary explanation, the representative explained that by adopting the proposed law, the Republic of Slovenia would fulfil its obligations and transpose the provisions of the Council Directive on compensation to victims of crime into the internal legal order. The Member States of the European Union must ensure that the applicant applying for compensation for a violent offence committed in a Member State other than the Member State of his or her permanent residence has the right to submit an application to the authority in the Member State of residence. According to the content of the bill, this regulates the right to compensation for victims of violent acts and their owners, the procedure for the exercise of those rights, and the authorities that decide and participate in the decision-making process on those rights. The representative of the proposer also presented individual solutions to the draft law below. The representative of the legislative and legal service presented their opinion, in which she pointed out, from a legal and legal point of view, that it would suggest further clarification of the nature of the body and the decision-making procedure under this law. It further gave its opinion and specific comments to each article, some of which the applicant took into account in the drafting of the amendments to the Committee. In the debate, the members and members of the committee expressed support for the law and the proposals for amendments to the committee prepared by the Ministry of Justice on the basis of the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service. In the presentation of the amendment tabled to Article 2, it was pointed out that the amendment had been tabled primarily with a view to examining, by the time of the meeting of the National Assembly, whether the range of beneficiaries of compensation under this Act had been duly established and whether any other group had been omitted. The amendment is of the opinion that persons who have lived as a dependent family member under the income rules should also be included in the law as beneficiaries of compensation. The representative of the applicant referred to the reasons why he did not support the proposed amendment of the LDS Club to Article 2. In the view of the applicant, it is not necessary to extend the compensation also to the cases proposed by the amendment's proposer and for which compensation could also be sought for a member of the maintenance. Thus, the Committee did not accept the amendment of the LDS Club and adopted its amendments and also adopted all the articles of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-28-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u5	Thank you, Mrs Mojci Kucler Dolinar, for inviting her to the speaker to present the position of the New Slovenia Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-28-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u6	Thank you very much again. In the introductory explanation of the law, the applicant explains that the aim of the law is to fulfil the obligations imposed by the Directive on the Member States of the European Union. However, this is basically more than that, it is an important complement to our legal area in that segment, which we asked ourselves yesterday in the debate on the Ombudsman's report, what about the victims of crimes. Thus, the existing institutions will restore damages - on the one hand in the bond code and, on the other hand, in the law on criminal proceedings - by this proposal, a more comprehensive obligation of the State to compensate for the damage suffered by a person as a victim of a violent crime will be established. The victims of violent acts and their family members, who are Slovenian citizens or nationals of another Member State of the European Union, will be entitled to compensation if they have been subjected to a violent act which has signs of a crime which may be punishable by criminal law for more than one year, while also containing elements of physical violence. This is an important condition, since it is the attack on the human body, on human integrity, that limit which requires the provision of minimum standards of protection in the form of compensation by the State where it is not possible to obtain this right on the basis of other legal bases. Under the law, a basic obligation is laid down for the applicant to enforce a claim in accordance with the provisions of the Criminal Procedure Act when proceedings against the perpetrator of a criminal offence are pending. Nor will the compensation be granted to those applicants who are entitled to it on the basis of other rules, such as the Health Insurance Act or the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. At the level of compensation, however, it is appropriate to take into account whether the applicant himself contributed to the injury by his conduct. The restrictions recorded are important that the effects of the law would not have undue, unnecessary effects on the budget when applicants have already received funds from other sources or contributed to the damage themselves. The financing of the national compensation scheme under the proposed law will come from the budget. In addition to budgetary resources, funds that suspects of criminal offences are willing to pay in the framework of instructions or orders given by the State Prosecutor in the event of a suspended prosecution will also be available for this purpose. The minimum compensation shall at least partially ease the pain suffered by an individual or his family if they are victims of a crime of murder, murder, serious injury, sexual violence, rape or violence. Therefore, in the case of the New Slovenia-Christian People's Party, we support the proposal for a law on compensation for victims of crime.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-28-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u7	Thank you, Mrs. Mozzie Kucler Dolinar. Mr Franz Kangler will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-28-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u8	Thank you for your word. Dear Members and Members of the Government! The Slovenian People's Party's Group will support the proposal for a law on compensation for victims of crime. As we have already heard, the basic reason for the adoption of the law on compensation for victims of crime is the minimum standards for the protection of victims of crime set by the Member States of the European Union and the Council Directive on compensation for victims of crime, which was adopted unanimously and aimed at achieving one of the fundamental objectives of the European Community - removing obstacles to the free movement of persons and services between Member States. From the point of view of Slovenia, however, they are not the only reason for the adoption of the law of the requirement or direction of the European Union. In Slovenia we do not have a systematic and fully regulated area of compensation for individual victims of a violent crime. This is why the law is important, we can say, especially for Slovenian citizens. On the basis of a special procedure, it is possible to request compensation for acts of violence involving elements of physical violence which will take place in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. In our view, it is important that the law sets out specific compensation numbers for certain types of recognised compensation and thus prevents abuse in this area. These compensations are to be understood in particular in terms of symbolic amounts. For all these reasons, we do not see any reservation in the Slovenian People's Party's Group to support the law under consideration. Of course, it is and must also remain the primary duty of the State to prevent as much violence and violence as possible by means of preventive and other measures, which are pursued by official duties. The bill only alleviates the already occurring consequences of these crimes. The Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group will support the above-mentioned bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-28-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u9	Thank you, Mr. Kangler. Mr Sašo Peče will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-28-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u10	Your Honors are here! Whether it is a symbolic sum or a symbolic act of a state willing to help or willing to help a victim, it would still make sense in the first phase, in our opinion, even a prerequisite that the law before us would be feasible, so that such assistance could even occur. According to our assessment, harm is, or should not, be, passed laws that cannot implement their contents. It should also be pointed out that the adoption of such laws indicates the duality of Slovenian policy, which on the one hand would like to confirm the various directives of the European Union, has been praised by the laws adopted and, on the other hand, cannot implement this law in reality. It's one of those laws. Before I touch on the reasons why it cannot implement them or will not be able to implement them, allow me to highlight some of the shortcomings of the Slovenian national parties in the process of adopting this law within the legislative branch of government. As you probably know, to understand the power is also from the explanation, already in the previous millennium - I think that in 1999 and 1998 - various institutions of the European Union met with requests for such content. Later in 1999 a recommendation was made and in 2004 the adoption of this act in the form of a Council of the European Union directive. In April 2004, the Republic of Slovenia physically obtained such a request. Thus, the Slovenian executive branch, as the executive branch of the authority that normally prepares the laws, has had this bill in its hands for more than a year. It did not provide for us until last month, which in fact means that we have been put to work and that we must adopt the law without change, which ultimately proves the procedure by which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia came to Parliament, this is an urgent procedure. An urgent procedure that is normally used on the basis of business provisions or should apply to natural disasters, war situations and similar things. We do not see in the National Party one of these reasons which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia represents. We know that there is no war in Slovenia, there is no disaster. Earlier in college there was even talk about the possibility that one natural disaster in Slovenia is - I personally do not say it, but it was heard, and it might even make sense to think about the words of that speaker. Yeah, he said we could consider it a natural disaster to the Slovenian government. But, of course, like I said, I don't share an opinion with him. However, I would like to stress further that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which has had this directive for more than a year, could, in some normal procedure, come to the National Assembly, of course, to the extent that it is our desire to make the law feasible, so that the law can be fulfilled or pursued by all those objectives that sound so beautiful from the title itself. Now let me give you a look at the Slovenian National Party and give you a reason why in the next two years, under existing legislation and current legislation in the Slovenian Parliament, the procedure of the Slovenian Parliament, it will not be possible to implement them. As you probably know, all those who have also looked at the financial consequences of this law are able to understand from them that they cannot be predicted; we do not know how many back-up interventions there will be, and we do not know how many such requests will continue, especially given the uncertainty of the place, the time of such events. Therefore, we do not know or are under-defined both the scope of demonstrations and the various public meetings, and of course God does not, but the negative consequences which unfortunately accompany such activities are physical attacks on individual participants from this or those parties to a member or a citizen of the European Union. And given that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has written down or committed itself to the aid of this kind, it would make sense - and I have not received this answer either in college or elsewhere - whether we have in the 2006 and 2007 budget, which we are now adopting, an item that makes it possible to pay for this. We all know that accepting some future obligations, while not providing funds in the highest public financial act, is completely irrelevant and thus we estimate that it cannot come to the realization of this law. Since my time is running out, I'm gonna have to finish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-28-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u11	Thank you, Mr. Pechet. Mr Willi Rezman will present the position of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-28-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u12	Thank you very much and very much. One of the features of a modern globalised way of life is that we are very mobile. They travel either sportsmen or culturers, or scientists travel, mass tourists and at the same time this globalisation, and with this great mobility there is so much greater vulnerability of people who are on the road. Therefore, it is right for those who travel a great deal to protect those who, for various reasons, have to change their place of residence in an appropriate way. So it is, for the first time, increased security and for the second time, when it is not possible to ensure all of this, at least an appropriate compensation is provided. The need for this law is obvious. One is the one imposed on us by the Compensation Directive, the other is the need to provide an area of security for ourselves, and some of these things have been accepted by us this week. Let us just remember the law on travel documents, which is also one of the preventive forms of protecting our lives, possessions, bodies, and everything we need. So far, this is what the directive tells us, we have not had the most carefully regulated, and the proposaler has therefore decided to prepare a proposal for the law before us. We estimate that the law is properly prepared. We estimate that it is good enough to be able to get our support, including because it is also intended for Slovenians and Slovenians, who will thus be more secure when travelling across other countries of the European Union, as well as for equal security and the equal right to compensation, we must also ensure that the righteous are also guaranteed to other Europeans and Europeans. So these are the reasons why we feel that there is no need to overly think about whether the law or the proposal for a law should be supported or not. Also because, as mentioned above, these are violent and pretentious crimes against us, against our lives, against our bodies, against sexual inviolability, against our property, etc. Since this law will contribute to uniform standards and standards so that they can be just and adequate compensation, we will support it. We also support the argument put forward by the applicant in rejecting the LDS amendment proposal and consider it justified - rejection, that is. So we, too, will not support the amendment and support the proposal for a law as drafted by the Ministry.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-28-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u13	Thank you, Mr. Rezman. Mr Mitja Ljubeljšek will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-28-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u14	Honorable assembly, distinguished representatives of the government! The proposal for a law on compensation for victims of crime aims at fulfilling the obligations or implementing the provisions of the EU Council Directive in the Slovenian legal order. The objective of the proposal for this Directive is to establish a regime for cross-border access to compensation with procedural provisions and to set minimum standards for compensation in terms of harmonising the level of compensation in all EU Member States. It therefore regulates the right to compensation for victims of violent acts and their relatives, the procedure for the exercise of those rights, and the authorities which decide and participate in the decision-making process. The beneficiaries are applicants who have to meet certain formal and material conditions. An application for compensation will be submitted to the Ministry of Justice on a written form to be determined by the Minister of Justice. The current Slovenian legislation currently does not fully govern the State's obligation to compensate for the damage suffered by a person as a victim of a violent crime. The victim of a criminal offence as an injured person may seek compensation for the damage caused by the perpetrator of the crime by means of a motion in criminal proceedings or by an action in judicial proceedings. Citizens of the Member States of the European Union shall exercise the right of free movement or free movement of persons every day at work, during a study or on a journey within the EU area. In this regard, one of the main objectives set by the EU Member States is to provide areas of security through the implementation of this law. Nevertheless, violations of this right may occur, and individuals in a country where they do not have a permanent residence may be victims of a violent act. This is precisely why EU Member States need to ensure by law that these victims have the right to claim compensation in a country where the offence has also been committed. In accordance with the provisions of the Directive, Member States must implement the laws, regulations and administrative provisions necessary to comply with the Directive by 1 January 2006 at the latest. The adoption of the law will have financial implications and at least two new jobs. The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group will support the proposed law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-28-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u15	Thank you, Mr. Ljubeljska. Mr Davorin Trčon will present the position of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-28-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u16	Thank you, Mr President, the distinguished representatives of the government. So the LDS Group will support the law on compensation for victims of crime. We think it is right for Slovenia to regulate this area and, above all, we support the purpose of the law; therefore, that the State is in a relationship with the injured person as soon as the damage or consequences arise, and that it is not waiting for the outcome of the criminal procedure or justice, which may also have a property claim against the injured persons or their owners. However, we have an amendment proposal and serious concerns about the circle of beneficiaries of compensation, especially when it comes to death and especially when it comes to the consequences of death and the circle of beneficiaries or relatives. Therefore, the LDS Group is investing, re-investing, amendment to Article 2 of the Act and therefore proposes to extend the range of beneficiaries in the event of death to compensation. The purpose of the law is multilayered. One is social, but according to the principle of solidarity it is also symbolic. According to the system proposed by the law, the undisputed beneficiaries in the event of death are, therefore, children who have survived by the victim, if the victim was obliged to survive, the ex-husband, if the victim was obliged to survive. However, we believe that there are some very important categories from the system that we believe would benefit from the country's solidarity. In particular, let me mention some of the most exposed: a child over 18 years of age who was no longer alive. As an example, parents are no longer obliged to spend more than a year in school. And so when we come to the case that there has been a interruption for more than a year, it is undeniable that it is a property, indisputably, that it is a sensitive social category, but it is not covered by this law. A child over 18 years old if he was a dependent family member. Here, let me mention a special category that is not cleared. What is going on in the case of persons who are also deprived of their working ability, or extended parenting after 18 years in the case of children with mental disabilities and so on. We propose that, in accordance with the definition of the law on marriage and family relations, we also explicitly state the beneficiary as also an extra-marital partner and propose that a spouse who otherwise has regular income come into this category. However, it should be pointed out that under the law on marriage and family relations it is stated that the spouse is obliged to support his or her partner in accordance with his or her options. And in the end, parents who lived in a joint household with full - time children. We think these categories should also be taken into account. As an example, let me mention England, where solidarity has been shown slightly wider than we have. However, I understand that this has certain financial implications, but certain financial consequences have already had an existing law and it must be said that this volume of financial implications for the country is not, in my opinion, burdening to the extent that the adoption of our amendment would be problematic. After all, if this country - we adopted the law days ago - finds enough money for the police's spiritual care as an example, we think that the question of covering these categories is much more exposed - or the correction of injustices and so on, could still be mentioned for a long time. We think there are a lot of arguments that we can also cover these categories that we have proposed and thus follow the purpose of the law in accordance with the bond law, so I call on you to support the amendment as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-28-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u17	Thank you, Mr. Tarchoon. Mr Miran Potrč will present the position of the Socialist Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-28-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Government representatives! As a member of the European Union, the Republic of Slovenia is obliged to comply with the obligations imposed by the Directives and one of them is Council Directive 2004 80/E of 29 April 2004 on compensation to victims of crime. Its aim is to establish a regime for cross-border access to compensation with appropriate procedural provisions and to set minimum standards for compensation in terms of harmonising the level of compensation in all Member States of the European Union. The draft law on compensation for victims of crime is therefore based on that Directive, which regulates the right to compensation, on the authorities leading the procedures for the enforcement of compensation, financing, records and the date of application of the proposed law. In its opinion, the Legislative and Legal Service drew attention to some of the shortcomings in the formulations and solutions that were then eliminated by the mother's working body with the amendments. The proposed law provides a solution whereby Slovenian citizens or persons who have permanent residence are entitled to compensation and are victims of an alleged crime for work, study, travel or other reasons in EU Member States. In this case, in these countries they have the right to compensation and vice versa; they have the same right to compensation in our country as the citizens of any other European Union country if the crime has occurred to us. Surely this means unifying the rights and obligations of the European Union, certainly the proposed law also means a quicker solution to compensation for some of the worst-intentioned crimes, and we support the law in the Social Democrats Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-28-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u19	Thank you, Mr. Run. We are done with the presentation of the positions of the parliamentary groups. We are moving on to second reading, this is to the debate on the articles and amendments tabled, which we will conduct on the basis of the review of the amendment of 27.10.2005. I therefore put to the debate Article 2 and the amendment of the LDS Group of Members. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. Mr. Marolt, on behalf of the Ministry or the government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-28-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u20	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. The Government of that amendment of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia does not support it. The purpose of the confession of compensation to a victim of a crime is to damage both the property and the property suffered by the victim himself. The bill provides only for family members who, in the event of death, would lose their survival as a consequence of a crime. These include, in accordance with the Marriage and Family Relations Act and in compliance with the terms of this Marriage and Family Relations Act, the extramarital partner or the extramarital partner. In all cases, however, there is a condition that the deceased survived or was legally obliged to survive. Therefore, the extension of the vindictive circle to relatives who have survived as a dependent family member under the Income Act is not justified.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-28-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u21	Thank you, Mr. Marolt. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mrs. Shirca.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-28-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u22	I apologize, I would like to ask the government a question, and I really am already apologizing as a non-member of the committee and possibly as not a good enough listener to today's debate, but one question. As long as a Slovenian citizen - of course I refer the issue to the government - if, for example, a Slovenian citizen happens to be an accident in England and becomes a victim of a crime that happened on English soil, or then falls into legislation that is Slovenian or falls under legislation and rules such as England, because we know that England has more rights. That's why! Does another country, however, extend its rights, but do some resuscitate them? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-28-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u23	Thank you. Do you want to answer immediately? Here you go, Mr. Marolt.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-28-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u24	Yeah, I'd like to answer right away. For an offence committed in England, the beneficiary shall apply a request under the rules of the United Kingdom and may submit an application to the Slovenian competent authority, i.e. the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Slovenia, if he is a Slovenian citizen.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-28-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u25	Thank you. Mr. Tarchoon.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-28-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u26	Well, I'd just like a moment, according to Mr. Marolt's response. So, I understand that the extramarital partner is equal to the marriage status, but we just wanted to follow the dictatorship, that is, the law on marriage and family relations. Thus, this comment, or even the specific amendment in this part, was primarily the latter to this law; more than a material consequence. But you rejected everything else, Mr Marolt or the government, as unfounded. See, given the mood and what was on the Internal Policy Committee, I suppose this amendment will not be adopted, although I urge you to reconsider. But I have to tell you, that's pretty much the right thing to do. I have made well-founded proposals, well-founded reasons. So when it comes to the case of a full - time adult who has interrupted studies for one year and one day, the case of adults who have been deprived of their abilities and so on. So, it is justified, certainly, and the examples in Europe also teach us that this solidarity is wider. We have countries, we have cited an example where this is more widespread. Of course, the second question is how acceptable this is for the government and the ruling coalition. I said that this will have no major financial consequences, you have decided to cover this circle, of course I am expressing some satisfaction that at least we will get to the law. But we are convinced that this circle should be wider. Especially if we take into account what I have already stated that in this country there are resources for various, different compensations, for various kinds of returns in nature and in nature, for various spiritual supplies and would list, probably for a very long time, but up to these border problems, which are very loud and burning - because death sometimes has worse consequences than just the fact of death, especially for the relatives and those who have been maintained by this affected - therefore, our country could show more social sense and more solidarity, as we have suggested. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-28-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u27	Thank you, Mr. Tarchoon. Mrs. Shirca.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-28-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u28	Thank you very much. I would also support and ask for support from this amendment, which slightly extends the rights to those members we do not see in the law now in the proposal we have on the table. That's what they say, for dependent family members. Another fact may be highlighted here. This enlargement, I think, would not be too much of a financial burden for the country, but it is also a matter of situations involving great mental pain and major problems or hardships that arise in new situations, especially in the case of such victims of death. Undoubtedly, we can sum up not only material problems that arise in such cases, and perhaps not the most predictable situations, for example, when a study is interrupted, or in a situation where incapacitated people do not have enough help or even lose it. The emotional pains and crises that arise in this situation are great for family or family members. And if they are accompanied by material problems - in these cases they are only and only getting worse. I asked earlier what the situation is like if such an accident or a victim occurs on the ground, such as the United Kingdom; we know that the rights are wider there. Perhaps it would be nice to follow the example or to take the example of this example or arrangement, for once again, I underline that it is a very sensitive, sensitive, and deeply hurt family or a very wounded human situation that these people will face. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-28-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u29	Thank you, Mrs. Shirtz. Mrs. Kucler, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-28-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u30	Thank you very much. I would also like to come by myself because I would like to say that we, not just the proposers of this amendment, are aware of all those pressures and pains that affect a wider range of people who are affected by the victim. However, I think it is necessary to underline this basis here, that the law itself and the compensation itself do not go to be seen as some kind of social support. Therefore, the applicant comes primarily from this, an extension for persons considered to be dependent family members under the income rules. The purpose of the law is, therefore, in compensation, in the recovery of property or property damage resulting therefrom, and not as a social benefit, it is made possible in accordance with other rules and may be enforced under other rules. Therefore, in our Group of Members, we do not think that this is equivalent and that the circle of beneficiaries in the bill is properly defined, weighed and there is no basis for spreading within the meaning of the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-28-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u31	Thank you, Mrs. Kucleers. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Marolt, would you like to answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-28-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u32	Thank you so much for saying that. Perhaps you'd like to answer Mr. Tarchoon. According to the general rules of the bond code, it is stipulated that the person who died or was obliged to survive is entitled to compensation. Thus, it is the general bond law provisions of the bond code, which is a general provision which lays down the right to compensation.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-28-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u33	Thank you. Since there's no desire to discuss it anymore, I'm concluding it. The amendment will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the half-hour vote after the end of the 21st item of the agenda, or no later than 2.41 p.m. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 21. PERIOD OF THE DAY - TO CONCERN THE PROPOSAL OF THE DECISION ON AMENDMENTS AND SUPPORTS OF THE DECISION ON THE PROGRAM FOR THE SALE OF THE STATE FINANCIAL AND REAL BUILDINGS FOR 2004 AND 2005. The draft decree was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The motion for a decree was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. I ask the chairman of the Committee, Mr Bojan Starman, to present the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-28-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor! At its 8th regular meeting on 13 October, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy considered a proposal for a decree amending and supplementing the decision on the scheme for the sale of State financial and real property submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly under Article 80(4) of the Law on Public Finance for consideration. The opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service was also presented on the Committee and on the basis of this opinion some amendments or additions to the proposal have been made, which the Committee has also adopted. The Committee also had an amendment with the first signed by Mario Possonec, for which it was shown that it had not been adopted in the subsequent debate. The meetings were attended by representatives of the Ministry of Public Administration and the Directorate for Investment. They suggested that, by supplementing the sale of state property, they increase the list by an additional EUR 3.9 billion, which would increase the total decree to EUR 8.6 billion. This is already the third amendment to the 2004 and 2005 Real Estate Regulation. Some questions were raised in the debate, one of which was why this third amended proposal was so late and whether it would be possible to address these sales in this year. It has been clarified that this is possible and that this will also be realized this year. The question raised was, above all, about the possibility of replacing state property with property in the area of local communities, here I think, and the question was raised on the ground that there are many administrative units owned by municipalities. It would be better for them to replace this property managed by a practical state with some other property. The question was also raised as to how and for what purposes the funds obtained from the purchase were used. The fact is that these funds are intended to build, restore, purchase and maintain state-owned property, which is also considered necessary. The issue has also been raised, as well as the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, that a report should be presented at every end of the programme. I hope that we will also receive this report. It also raises the question of how, in this case, when sales will not actually be realized this year, how they will be integrated into the new programme. It will only be necessary to include the unrealised in the programme, which is already in the process of accepting the divestment of State tangible and financial assets for 2006 and 2007. As it is said, the Committee's amendment committee, which was tabled on a proposal from the Legal and Legislative Service, has not accepted Mrs Possonec's amendments, and we propose to the National Assembly that it do the same in its conclusion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-28-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u35	Thank you, Mr. Starman. I give the floor first to the representatives of the groups. Mr Josip Bajc will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-28-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u36	Mr President, a representative of the government, colleagues and colleagues, good afternoon. The resolution under consideration is already the third amendment to the current decision on the 2004 and 2005 sales programme for state and real property, which was adopted together with the budget for these two years. According to Members of the Slovenian People's Party's Group, the sale of real property, which is commercially unnecessary for the work of national authorities, is reasonable and justified every time during the implementation of the budget, which is also subject to the decree. We are also convinced that by adopting the additions to the state budgets, which also form part of the decision on the sale programme for state and real property, it is not possible to foresee all those unnecessary assets for two years, which make sense to sell within these two years. We also assess that amending or supplementing the resolutions is also justified during the implementation of the budgets at the time of the implementation of the current budget. Therefore, the Members of the Slovenian People's Party Group will support the resolution under consideration and we will not support the amendment of colleague Marie Possonec, given that the guard she proposes to transfer to the local community is in agreement and is also subject to another form of transfer of this guard to the local community.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-28-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u37	Thank you, Mr. Baitz. Mr Sašo Peče will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-28-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u38	Dearly-respected, the National Assembly has met three times in its 2004 and 2005 decision on the sale of the national financial and real estate programme. First on 12 December 2003 at an extraordinary meeting, second on 13 July 2004 and third on 22 March 2005. So today we meet for the fourth time with this same decree. With this, I would like to point out some kind of poor planning of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, especially given that we are looking now at the end of 2005 and that only now have they looked at the final realization and realized that it is possible to include a few more things in the sales programme. However, I would like to stress the first criticism of such a programme and, in my opinion, we must be critical of such acts. In the final phase it is with state property, it is about so-called public finances as "output" or the results of such activities. However, I think it is even more important than watching the "output" follow the law on public finances, which specifically speaks or directs both the executive branch of government and the legislative branch of government to define the intended consumption of the purchase. If we look at the decree itself, for the first time, for the second time, for the third time or for the fourth time, today we see that this kind of intent to buy things in that decree is extremely poor. This means, on the other hand, that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not wish or does not seem to be worth familiarising the National Assembly, i.e. the representatives of the people, if I may say so, of the purpose of such financial inflows. However, I would like to point out that, despite everything I have said so far, it has always been a green thread, or it has always been the point of a speech by representatives of the Slovenian National Party when we talked about the sale of state property, that such an act, which I repeat, is now the fourth time we have met, at least after our assessment of the dumping of sand in the eyes. If you look at the table, i.e. individual items selling state property, you will see that they do not even essentially cover what is actually meant to be, it is so-called ownership or the subject of the sale of state institutions. According to my assessment, if the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and this National Assembly, i.e. the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, would want to adopt a real picture of the disposition, where it belongs in the final stage and also in the basic stage of the sale of state property, they should be given an overview of the state property at all. This is not State property in terms of parcels held by the Ministry of Finance or the Ministry of Defence and which is the barracks which will sell itself and similar things, but the real property that this country has in the form of shares should be in public companies, public institutions, various equity companies and, lastly, in private companies. And until we have this kind of review and this kind of disposition with this real state property, we will have so much time going on in connection with the SOD and the KAD, in the latter case only with Mercator, where more or less indirectly, and in my opinion, there is very much to do with the sale of state property. Not from the first hand, but from the institutions set up by the Government or the National Assembly to sell or dispose of them. Until we actually have this kind of property programme, so long, honourable Members and Members, in this house we will adopt such acts that will not bind anyone to anything, and even less show actual sale or disposal of property. As you know, the sale of state property in banks has begun over the past few years, but there are no letters about such activities or transfers in these documents, which, in turn, are promising. Nowhere do we define what happened with the sale of state property in the New Ljubljana Bank or any other bank before them. What about the proposal to sell New Credit Bank Maribor? In the meantime, the fact that the Minister of Finance boasts with all his voice that the whole privatisation or sale of the New Maribor Credit Bank has already been completed in the programme phase, we see that the proposal for sales, with which the Minister has promised to familiarise himself with the 2006-107 National Assembly, of course, has not yet been completed, is to be met here with the divestment of various smaller shares within individual ministries. Ladies and gentlemen, this is misleading! In my opinion, this is insulting to the National Assembly and insulting to public finances, where, after all, they belong, as I said before, to obligations under the Public Finance Act. As you know, I know that all Members of Parliament have developed a strong debate in recent times on sales or on the activities of the SOD and the KAD. The SOD and the KAD have our assets. As long as we close our eyes before this, we close our eyes in the form of investigative committees set up to ensure that nothing is investigated, I think that one of the members of the National Assembly is correct, and this should be clear to all of us, and we should also make it clear to ourselves that if we have such an investigative commission, this kind of investigative commission will need to achieve the results it has outlined within its programme, it will take several centuries. But in this case, we're talking about state property. I only mentioned one, that's the Mercator from the last period. Before I want to return to the subject or anniversary of the aforementioned act, there was a phased sale of banks. We don't have anything in here either. In exchange for the adoption of such acts, which do not meet or provide for the law on public finances, i.e. on the purpose of the purchase, will happen to us again, the Dresden Bank. We all know or quietly know that the purchase is for the New Ljubljana Bank, that is, that purchase, whose value reached 1/4 of the market value, has been in Dresden Bank for many years. In exchange for what? Because it was not known how Slovenian public finances would absorb this amount of funding. Then why sell if we don't know what we're gonna do with the purchase? Gentlemen, these are the issues that we should face in the acts that bear such resounding names as the proposal for a decree on a sales programme for state, financial and real property for the period of this and that. It's a sales program. Members of state, the Slovenian public is not informed about the sales programme or back, for 2004 and 2005, this is a very bad picture we have in the rapporteur, not forward. And beyond that, we would need such programs much more than just back. But as long as we simply agree to such programmes until we say, "Yes, but we are interested in what happens to state property, because we are state Members, because it is our job to take care of this kind of area," so many of these things will take place. When someone asks us two years later what happened to the sale or why the sale of the New Ljubljana Bank, what did we do with that purchase, none of the 90 Members will know anything. And this will happen with other institutions where our country, our government, directly or indirectly, is going through everything. I don't think we should accept that. Today we have the opportunity to say no to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, this way we no longer go, we want to know what is going on with state property. But the way to report this to the government is to reject this, without question what will happen to the novelty or the new proposal for sales for these two months, as long as 2005. This is one of the ways in which we have asked the government to debate this in the framework of the Institute of Parliamentary Affairs and the parliamentary initiatives, the enlarged debate, was rejected under the previous government and rejected under that government. At that time, Members, and in this mandate and in the previous term, expressed their conviction that they did not want to know what was going on with state property. It was once said in the previous mandate, if we leave this to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, to tell us in the form of budgetary revenues how much public finances will increase in a given year, but it was not later either. We got three different answers about the purchase. First thing is, he's lying on a bank abroad. The second concerns that it is indirectly linked to the reduction or stabilisation of public debt. And the third is that it is a long-term questionable investment, where the financial resources will go to be as fertilized as possible. There's no answer today. Various answers are coming. If you hear it from a representative of the previous government, it will be one if we hear it from a representative of the current government. We do know, however, that state property consists not only of the things mentioned in Rapporteur 74, because then this country of ours would be the power of God, the power of a miserable state, but we know that this property is much more. If, at least this year, we get a list of state property if we get ownership, because it's also property in individual capital companies, institutions, that's a step forward. The former government has not been able to do this for ten or several years. At least within the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, we have appealed to this government several times, but there is still no response. We will not support such acts in the National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-28-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u39	Thank you, Mr. Pechet. Mr Willi Rezman will present the position of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-28-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u40	Today we are discussing the 2004 and 2005 sales programme's decision, but we also have proposals for 2006 and 2007. This gives us a slightly better view and that we can make concrete comments on what we see is not in this programme and what is not yet foreseen in the next programme. While we support this proposal before us, the DeSUS Group will certainly vote in favour. We are convinced, however, that we need to be more active in this area. We are convinced that the business unnecessary property that the State has, either alone or through ownership shares in some other companies, needs to be turned more actively into commercially necessary assets or into active assets. We also feel that it is necessary to deal better with this property for the sake of this, because there is a lot of such property that we find all over Slovenia and that no one controls and simply fails. And the fact that we have something that we can't control or we're not ready to activate with the appropriate programs, of course we can't give that consent. We hope that this is not the only purpose of the government that our assets are not only a source of budget charging, but a potential for economic activities to develop on it. In this respect, we have very specific comments. The first comment or recommendation or proposal goes to the State, the Government, to carry out an action in which it would call on all 193 Slovene municipalities to show a formal and actual interest in property, which we know is spread across Slovenia, with which the country does not have concrete development plans, and this is collected in an organised, transparent action, not as it now happens that individual municipalities are so sporadic, now, later on, one end, one from another, to make proposals on how to manage this property, and then some proposals are heard and some are not, even without appropriate explanations, some are rejected. That's the first suggestion. The second proposal, which I repeat, because I have already presented on the Committee, is that something in the area of the property that the State needs does not have. It is therefore the construction of administrative units in which public services operate, public administration, which are owned by local communities and do not receive any rents for them. Such property, which even additionally burdens us in local communities, is also business unnecessary for us and would like to get rid of it; all we have with it is problems and costs. We therefore propose that the State decide to start paying the rent, as has already been said, to find other forms of compensation for this property that we maintain and that others use. The answer to the parent’s working body went in the direction that the current legislation did not allow that to happen. The current legislation or legislation that the government representatives had in mind at the time was already removed under the law of last year, which we adopted here, on the reorganisation of the state administration. This law was abolished in 1994 and 1992, which in some way confiscated this municipal property. We therefore propose that the government consider this and give us appropriate answers in this regard. If we don't get it in a relatively short time, we'll be forced to make our own law, which, metaphorically speaking, will give us back the unconstitutional property. Otherwise, we will support this motion for a decree.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-28-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u41	Thank you, Mr. Rezman. Mr Bojan Starman will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-28-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor! The Slovenian Democratic Party will support the proposed amendments on the divestment of the country's real and financial assets of $3.9 billion. By doing so, certain budget consumers will dispose of unnecessary real property and, of course, with the money they have to invest in the purchase, construction and maintenance of the necessary assets, improve this situation in this area. That is why we think we need to make a proposal. However, even discussions show that something needs to be changed here in this system, that the continuous introduction of non-systematic lists to the committee and to the assembly is in fact necessary to make it more systematic and more transparent. I personally also agree that certain laws also need to look at and treat the state's assets as a whole and take a position. In my opinion, this programme should actually involve much more than just these things, which are often really irrelevant in their value and size to be dealt with here in the National Assembly. I think it would also be right, as Mr Rezman said, to systematically regulate certain transfers between local communities and the country, and we will also support these things if they start to come true. Once again, the Slovenian Democratic Party will support the amendments supported by the Committee and, of course, the proposal for a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-28-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u43	Thank you, Mr. Starman. Master Milan M. Cvikl will present the position of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-28-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Messengers and Members, good afternoon! What we're doing today reminds us of Burlesque. Two months before the end of the year, we are correcting for the fourth time a decree amending and supplementing the decision on the sale programme of property, state financial and real property. In the National Assembly, we already have a decree on the sale of state and real property for 2006 and 2007. I do not recall any working body starting to discuss how we will sell 189 billion assets in 2006 and 2007. However, we are meeting for the second time, even in this Chamber, to discuss how we will sell additional, approximately 4 billion real estate in less than two months of this year. This is because what we hear today, and what has been heard on the Committee, in fact, transforms the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia into a city where Members, Members or, if you wish, parliamentary parties to the ruling coalitions are shopping with individual ministries or municipalities about what we will give and sell by the end of the year. However, to allow this burlesque to have financial effects, allow me to quote page 39 of this Rapporteur. Because of the construction of the garage house at the clinical centre, the clinical centre will replace the plot where the garage is supposed to be worth less than €80,000 for another plot. If anyone thinks that the land in Ljubljana where the garage house is supposed to stand is only worth €80,000, then of course he does not know the financial indicators. We therefore have before us a change of the decree, which is already the third, second and second of this year's contents, which is proposed in contravention of article 80 of the Public Finance Act, which makes it clear that the decision on the scheme for the sale of State financial and real property is invested in the budget or in the context of its amendments. This government, which has advocated this, at the time it was in the opposition, especially the current Minister of Finance, has often explained in this Chamber that the National Assembly does not play the role of budgetary authority and that the former government has untransparently represented individual programmes for the sale of state financial and real property. First, in February, this government changed into a rapid decree which entered into force at the end of 2003, and in some ways incorporated that decree into the 2005 rebalancing at least. This made sense, of course, to collect what will be sold, and then to include it in the 2005 rebalancing expenditure. Now, for the second time this year, this government is changing its ruling without saying who will be entitled to the additional, approximately 4 billion expenditure on the impact of the sale of this property if the sale of this property takes place this year at all. A number of Members have found on the working body that even if this is not sold this year, it is not important, it is important that we be given a decree this year and, of course, it must be adopted in any way. Why should it be accepted? It has to be adopted because the fourth decree will only increase the non-transparency caused by the second amendment of the decree and, in fact, means a hidden patch of the budget hole. In this respect, it is a clear formal shift from transparent action, as required by the Public Finance Act in its entirety, in particular Article 80 and within Article 80(4). That is true, it also confirms the opinion of the legislature. I hope that there is nothing wrong with Members of the opposition in this National Assembly citing the opinion of the legislative and legal service. However, allow me to quote him: "In terms of the formulation of the proposed amendment to the decree, we find that it is very uneven about each asset, but in some cases there is only a cumulative explanation given, but with regard to the essential elements, the presentation is very uneven and with few exceptions it does not present the intended consumption of the purchase, taking into account the provisions of the second paragraph of Article 80 of the Public Finance Act, which must tell what the money is intended for. We therefore believe that the explanation should be included directly in the table in the annex to the decree and that the decree itself should be drafted in an appropriate substantive manner." This has not been done, no amendment has been tabled in this direction, the government has not rectified the decision, although we have a normal treatment, so we ask ourselves whether this is how this government advocates transparent action in the field of public finances. We also wonder what the point is, the real meaning of such a big increase in real estate sales for the rest of the months, November, December. Is it not possible to include an additional 4 billion in 2005, because the inclusion of this 4 billion plus the 2006 and 2007 plan in total of 4 billion - that is, 2005 plus 2006 and 2007 4 billion times, so we have 8 billion - in fact, showing how the government closes the budget hole. We therefore wonder what the financial impact of this decision will be, what is the added value of what we are doing today. Is she any kind of girl? With regard to budgetary implementation procedures, it is highly unlikely that these procedures will be implemented in 2005, unless, of course, there will be trades or sales under the table without public invitations to tender. If individual recipients are already known, if you want, real estate, then the point is clear. We estimate that there is no substantive, formal or financial reason for amending the decision. In 2005, as we can see from the data we received yesterday in the National Assembly of the Ministry of Finance, we have a good state budget implementation within nine months. On the basis of a successful and effective tax reform, there has been a steady growth in revenue and these revenues are sufficient to perform all the functions of the country. Therefore, we do not see any material financial reason for amending this decree. All we can assess is that there is an increase in non-transparentness and that there is going to be some sales under the table past the rules imposed by the Public Finance Act. That is true, recent government decisions prove - perhaps the decisions that will be taken at today's Vrhnika leather assembly, because the government is supposed to decide that, instead of the finance ministry, it will be the Slovenian indemnity which will play the role of custodian of the state's financial assets. We believe that this is at least inappropriate, because if we really want to do this, it would be necessary to empower someone in this decision to transfer something from the Ministry of Finance to the Slovenian Compensation Society. So we wonder what the real goal is. The real goal is obviously some kind of trade, so in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we regret that the National Assembly becomes an entity or, if you want, an integral part of this trade. We believe that this decision should be rejected, we believe that the content of this Decision should be included, on the basis of the budgetary debate, in the 2006 and 2007 decision on the sale of financial and real property, and only on this basis should it be discussed whether everything referred to in the individual items in the individual ministries is truly reasonable to sell in the manner set out here. The representative of the Ministry of Public Administration, on a question on the Committee on Finance, which was, but what will happen to these revenues, said that the Ministry of Finance should include these expected revenues in the revenue. And that's probably not the problem. However, no one has responded to the question of who and how it will be possible to increase the availability of individual resources by means of these four billion past the National Assembly, which is the only budgetary priority. And here I think it's the key to the problem. At the time of the opposition, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, all parliamentary parties, the Slovenian Democratic Party and others, who are currently in the coalition, and even the Minister of Finance has been very upset by the lack of transparency, you have demonstrated by this decision that you are enhancing the intransparency of public finances. That is why we will oppose this decision in the Liberal Democracy. We don't think there's any reason for that. In doing so, we would put two questions first of all to the representatives of the government. First time. In what way will the rights of access to the proceeds of this property be classified in individual resources? And a second time. Why did this decision suddenly become a truly competent ministry of the Ministry of Public Administration if, until then, the Minister of Finance was always responsible? We are asking this because it is also obvious that a non-transparent Minister of Finance, such as the current Minister of Finance, is not necessary in this business and has therefore been excluded from consideration in the National Assembly as well as clearly from the conclusion of individual business transactions. We oppose this decision and propose that the National Assembly reject it fully and include its content in the sales programme itself for the years 2006 and 2007. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-28-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u45	Thank you, Mr. Squeakle. Mr Dusan Kumer will present the position of the Group of Members of the Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-28-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u46	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! When I listened to this debate today and in March this year, when we discussed the second amendment of this decision, some things do not impress me and I will try to show this in this presentation of the opinion of the Group. First of all, it must be said that in the Social Democrats Group we do not support the way and logistics when things are being done retroactively again, as is the case when we complement the reselling of state property even back in 2004, not just for this year. And secondly, many things, proposals and concrete ideas were made in March this year when we discussed the second amendment or the amendment of this decree. Many promises have also been made by the proposer or the government, and none of this has happened in these eight months. We got a similar, identical paper we got in March of this year. Now, on some of these concrete proposals, an idea for which, last but not least, the government has committed itself then to trying to change them the next time we consider the like. I will draw from the question and comment I made myself at the 4th meeting of the National Assembly in March when we addressed this decree, which refers to the fact that the values of individual items of sales programmes for which Members and Members of Parliament agree are ridiculously low. The then State Secretary replied to me, and I quote: "This estimated value, which is mentioned in the decree, is only an approximation, a more pessimistic approximation, that is not the value for which you Members would agree to sell the assets. But this one will come to light at a public auction." End of quote. That is why, of course, today, a person would rightly expect us to have a report on the results, these pessimistic illustrations, specific figures on the prices achieved at public auctions. None of this has been a recommendation on the implementation of the budget, not today, and I think and I believe that will never happen. So today we will also be Members and Members of Parliament in giving their consent to prisoners of some pessimistic approximations and unrealistic values, at least those on which we voted, if retroactively back, in March. That is why, and some other comments, it has been said by the government and the proposers that legislation will be amended to change some of the legal bases, when on the one hand we also have to decide the minimum values for the divestment of state assets, such as a computer worth 5 or 10 thousand SITs, and on the other hand we do not have any legal basis and therefore do not decide on the sale of state property worth more than 10 or 100 billion tolars. A good case, and today it has already been mentioned, is an ongoing problem these months of divestment of state property through Kad and Sod in Mercator. Absurd of absurdity. And also this proposal was given by our Members in March, and the government or proposer committed itself to changing some of the legal bases. That nothing happens in this area is incomprehensible and I am also surprised by the intensive government reform processes and energy invested by so many people in these reform processes in recent months, in all other areas only in the field of transparency and, above all, the economic management of state property does not happen, nothing is reforming, nothing is changing legislation. Therefore, once again in the Group of Social Democrats, we stress the necessity of these changes, because we are aware that state property is almost half as yet and to express itself in such a popular language, today property is the property of the sale of so-called 'cash Flow' state property. This is the property that has been rehabilitated in the past years during the transition, and today, as some of you have said, the necessary assets, and we Members are deciding through these papers on the so-called unnecessary state property. The applicant also still does not want to take into account, and this was also explicitly highlighted in March, the clearly stated provisions of the Public Finance Laws. In particular, when it comes to Article 13, paragraph 3, and Article 80, paragraph 2, which clearly provides that the purchase, rental and compensation of State or municipal real property shall be used only for the construction, purchase and maintenance of the real property of the State or the municipality. So again, as in March, there is a broader explanation for the use of these assets, which will be obtained by reselling state assets. This issue is particularly important because the present act and the procedure under way is taking place outside the budgetary debate procedure. We are talking about this, even for 2006 and 2007, if you remember the agenda, I think about the month of November this decree is barely on the table, but on 7 December we accept, if I am well aware, the 2006 and 2007 budget already. And even in the draft budgets, none of these funds are covered. Today, we are repeating the mistake we have made in March to allow the ministries to increase their spending, which is not in line with what the finance ministry says and advocates, especially its first man, is the finance minister. On these matters, on the uncontrolled consumption and construction of spending by individual ministries, Dr. Bayuk repeatedly pushed the table here in the National Assembly when he was an opposition Member and I agree with him. I therefore stress once again that it is unacceptable that, on the basis of this amendment to the decree, we are also allowing the ministries to spend more than is recorded in the 2004 and 2005 budgets. And it's a privilege. Of course, not all ministries are covered here, of course only some ministries. It is therefore unacceptable that the applicant does not comply with the Public Finance and Reasons Act, as I said earlier, with the use of these funds. In view of all that has been said and many other things, we cannot support this decision amending the March decree we have adopted in the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-28-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u47	Thank you, Mr. Kumer. Mr Cyril Testen will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-28-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament. New Slovenia's Parliamentary Group - The Christian People's Party agrees with the proposal for a decree amending the Decision on the Sales Programme for State Finance and Real Property for 2004 and 2005. We agree with the proposal mainly because there is an asset in the programme that the administrative authorities estimate is unnecessary and is economically viable to sell off. The immediate disposal, replacement or free transfer to the local community is necessary, in our view, because any delay and delay would result in additional damage and also a reduction in the value of assets, which is particularly true for dwellings and facilities. In particular, many comments were made on the Finance Committee to the effect that the assets being sold were too large and could not be sold off in such a short period of time by the end of 2005. The opinion of our Group is that it is necessary to do everything possible to ensure that as much as possible of this unnecessary property is sold out and thus prevent any additional damage caused by this reason. Here I am thinking mainly of abandoned buildings, which are still a few in Slovenia. In the New Slovenia Group, we will also support the sale of unnecessary assets in the future, because through this we also see new opportunities for new jobs and better development opportunities for those environments in which these properties exist. Here I would like to give an example of positive and good rescue. We have recently had an economic committee in Las Vegas, and I think that after many years the agony of the Roman Toplice is being resolved and that it will be successfully resolved. It's a shame that all these years the value has fallen above such a low level because the objects have been abandoned. Finally, in Rome's Toplice, it is estimated that about 200 people will be employed by all present, including local workers. In the New Slovenia Group, we also support the amendments adopted as amendments to the Committee, mainly on the initiative of the Legal and Legislative Service, and were mainly editorial in nature. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-28-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u49	Thank you, Mr. Testen. There is a general debate on the proposal for a decree. Mr. Janc Kristian has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-28-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State. The decree that we have here today seems to me to be essentially correct, and I will support it myself, and the timing of this event is disturbing me at the end of the year. Events by the end of the year are very short, two good months yet. The procedures necessary for such sale are likely to have their own time. That is why I fear that the proceeds of this sale will not be known by God in this financial year, in which we have already taken a strong step in the last quarter. However, it makes sense in this sense that the country sells objects, land and other matters as soon as possible, because it is known that the country is a bad host, that this is being treated very poorly, that certain objects show, as my colleague told me, for example, that we were intransparency, that we were ineffective, that the object before our eyes fell for years, just one more piece of evidence. But there are still many such cases in Slovenia. And I strongly support this as much as possible to replace it with local communities, which are usually good hosts or significantly better than the country that needs it for its programme, which have a vision of what to do with, what to do with this facility, and thus create the new jobs that every mayor, every local community, the region, still needs. And that's a step forward. I'm afraid it's not all about what's business unnecessary. This is something that the state has an extraordinary, extremely large state. This is what we encounter at local levels, often when we observe this or that land or facility that the country does not really care about. And maybe this list would be more precise, very correct and very necessary for all those who deal with this property in the Ministry. Well, we were on finance in March, today we're in public administration, well, that's just a change, obviously has its own arguments, why it came that way, because it's my logic that's more financial than public administration. But good. That doesn't even matter. More importantly, how successful this ministry will be in doing so, how successful it will be in selling it, how much time and, of course, at what cost and under what conditions. I believe that this purpose of the transition from finance to public administration has been that this will be even more successful, faster, more efficient and that these procedures will emerge, as the state of course wishes, so that this will be transferred as soon as possible to other hands, into those hands which will have a particular interest, which have a programme and which also have some objective of how they will deal with this facility. That's why I think it's the right thing to do and the right thing to do. It may only be noted whether all this is covered, whether the time is sufficient by the end of the financial year and whether this programme, which has been drawn up and is an integral part of this decree, will be fully implemented as soon as possible. This is probably in the interests of the country and also, after all, income, but above all, that the property should be given to owners who will be more active and quality managers than the state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-28-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u51	Thank you, Mr. Janz. Mr. Gantar, you have the floor. [[cancel]] . Mr. President. [[cancel]] . Mr. Milan Friday, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-28-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u52	Thank you, President, for your word. With regard to this decree, I will not talk about general or principled matters, but I would like to point out one question which arises to me in the three apartments covered by this decree which are located in Maribor. So I ask - I hope to get an answer, if not, of course I will be careful later when I see how the matter will take place - on page 27 is under item 77 of the apartment in Maribor, Ashkercheva 28. It is 60.75 square metres of housing in an older apartment and I must say that this apartment - because I know this from my previous professional tasks - has the correct price, i.e. 60 square meters, 9 million 112, which means 150,000 tolars per square meter or converted 625 euros. On page 28 below point 87 of the apartment in Maribor, Borštnikova 75, it is a large apartment of 64 square meters, worth 9 million 676, converted to a square metre of 150,000 or 625 euros, with regard to the location of the apartment and the situation of this facility the correct price. The eyes will be on page 29 below point 95 four bedroom apartment, ground floor, Ribniška 4, 112,5 square meters, converted to square meters 88,888, or 370 euros per square meter. Since I know where this apartment is located, it is in the most important part of Maribor, under the pyramid, near the Maribor City Park, in a 14-year-old building, I am interested in or ask what is with this apartment that has such a low value. If we were to recalculate some sort of normal price, 1,500 euros for this location and for this type of apartment, this apartment should be worth about 40 million, or if we were to sell 1,000 euros, which is already the lower limit of the square meter price, this apartment should be worth 27 million. In one case, therefore, 30 million is undervalued, and in the other case 17 million is undervalued. That's what I'm warning you about because the values are here, and the explanations in the back aren't to know what's going on. The proposaler himself writes that he is going for a good deal. Because it is an object that is not problematic, not from the point of view of maintenance, because it is in the elite part of Maribor, because it is a relatively large apartment, I believe that much more can be endured for such an apartment. Therefore, in this regard, I am also interested in how such an apartment will be sold, whether it is auctioned or whether it is a price placed by the appreciater or a price accepted by the housing commission itself. I expect that such a deformation, such as in this case, will not come into reality, if it comes, we will be very careful and problematic about this sale. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-28-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u53	Thank you, Mr. Friday. Mr. Trofenik, Mr. Squeakle, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-28-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Messengers and Members! We are therefore discussing a decision that I said earlier that we will not support in the Liberal Democracy. I have asked two questions to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and I expect the government to answer them at the end or in the course of the debate, but I think, of course, that the way in which this decision is adopted is completely unacceptable. We have noted in the debate on the Committee itself that the decree with these amendments will increase the total volume of assets to almost 16 billion, half of which occurred at the time of the government, which took over on 3 December 2004. I also said that, in the previous debate, we had pointed out that there were a lot of strangers in the decree itself and that we had been promised to get the appropriate explanations, or that we would get the results of individual sales through the relevant report. At the end of September, the National Assembly received a report on the implementation of the State budget for the first half of this year. It is also known why this was only in September because the government proposed a rebalancing, but there is not a word in this report on the effects of the sale of State property. I therefore ask the Government of the Republic of Slovenia when it will provide information on the realisation of the sale of State property, if not in the context of the budget implementation report. It is well known that, at the closing account to be considered at the November session, the government also does not report on the closing account for 2004. It does not report in detail how the 2004 budget was implemented in part of the resources for the sale of real property, nor has the Chairman of the home labour force in this area, been talking about the Committee on Finance. The Finance Committee has not yet convened a committee to discuss, for example, the decision on the sale of state and real property, despite my request or proposal, and to determine how the assets were realised in 2004. I expect it to be the same in 2006. Today we're increasing assets by 4 billion. It's just that the property is going to sell quickly. It's going to change. My colleagues and I myself have been alerting us to unacceptable low prices. Whether these are the starting prices, or whether, I would say, there will be appropriate public calls for minimum competition, of course, two months before the end of the year is to be seen and transactions will take place. No one's gonna watch these transactions. No one will see them, because apparently in the ruling coalition leading the parent labour force, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, even in 2004, when the previous government carried out these transactions, there was no desire to see how this was done, and I suppose it will be the same in 2005. Of course, all of this would not be a problem if we did not do something very important to me this week. What we've done this week when we're putting an end to a virtual anti-corruption commission. And let me remind you, of course, that one of the main purposes of a self-sustaining anti-corruption commission is that, through differences in the assets of individuals who are either government officials or saints or important public function holders, in fact, by changing the differences in property, we find suspicion of corruption. We will therefore have at least 16 billion sales of state-owned property exchanges in 2004 and 2005. This obviously does not intend to be viewed by the ruling coalition and by the independent, independent committee, which could either be based on a comparison of assets, everyone knows and remembers that we are Members and Members, and all the officials, on the basis of the decision of course, also one of the parent labour bodies in this National Assembly, will receive a rather comprehensive, fully transparent form, no one will look at the differences in these forms, because this anti-corruption commission will simply be abolished. But if anyone thinks that they will watch this, I don't know, "the commission, in narration, by the opposition," they must first ask themselves, of course, that this anti-corruption, state-level commission will only see this in a new mandate. I therefore regret that the government representatives who are with us today have in fact presented some decision on changes and additions to the decision on the sales programme of the state, in fact real property which does not provide a transparent view or, if you want, does not establish appropriate starting points for transparent sales, because there are no known conditions, on which assessment this will be sold and, of course, there is not enough time for this to take place on the basis of the basic rules for the collection of public offerings. That is why, of course, I note that it is obvious or likely that there will be significant damage to state property in the transactions to be carried out. If we are allowed, the opposition, through the Committee on Budgetary Control and other public finances, to request and to give appropriate warning, but since it is customary for this government or its parastatal authorities not to attend meetings, I wonder how we will be able to exercise proper control over the implementation of this programme of sales of state-owned property. That's why I'm concluding. I propose that we simply stop the debate on this decision or that we reject the decree and that all that is stated here, if, indeed, in the parties to the ruling coalition you are advocating for transparent action in public finances, you include this in the 2006 and 2007 decree and implement this decree to the full on the basis of the provisions of the Public Finance Act. Of course, someone will say that this is extremely difficult, but I must say that this is possible, it can be done. A whole bunch of transactions, especially transactions in the sale of state-owned assets, have been fully executed in the past, so to speak, transparently. This is also confirmed by the Court of Auditors' reports; we have several audits of the Court of Auditors for individual transactions in the sale of state-owned assets. And if this government is genuinely concerned with effective public finances management, then this decree would be incorporated into the 2006 and 2007 decrees by its content. Everything else is looking for holes in how to allow individuals, if you want, to benefit from public finances without anyone in the Republic of Slovenia being able to have a proper view of it. I said, no interest, so far the relevant meeting of the Finance Committee has not been convened to see how the sale of state-owned and real property in 2004 has been realized, even though we have at least a bad month's final account for 2004. So to the rest of us, who are just hanging out here this Friday morning, I suggest that you transfer this to your parliamentary groups, and if it is true that we should continue in Slovenia with greater transparency of public finances, then let us reject this decree. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-28-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u55	Thank you, Mr. Squeakle. Mr. Sasha Patch, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-28-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u56	If you don't mind, I'd just like to raise one more question and I'd like the government of the Republic of Slovenia or the government representative to answer me. On the basis of Article 67 of the Public Finance Act, which speaks [[Quote]] : "State and municipal property under this law is financial and real property owned by the State and the municipality." The title of the decree before us today is identical, the sale of state financial and real property. "The financial assets under this Act are monetary assets, claims and shares and shares in the capital of legal persons and other investments of a legal person [[the following shares:]] and shares in capital. Real estate is real estate and real estate. From this address, I ask whether it is true, therefore, that in 2004 and 2005, the State did not sell any share of the share of the capital of legal persons or had other investments and that it had solely the transactions listed in this Act, that is, the availability of movable property or, I apologize, real estate. That's the answer I'd like. In the event that the answer is that the government has sold other assets and we all know that it is, i.e. securities, then I think we all owe it together to reject the motion for a decree and to demand that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia be updated, one that corresponds to the actual state of the past years, that is, in 2004 and the current year 2005. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-28-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u57	Thank you, Mr. Pechet. Mr Kramberger is not here. Mr. Dusan Kumer, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-28-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u58	Thank you for your word. I hope that other Members and Members who are not here will succeed in cutting themselves off at a public auction. Maybe they're somewhere when the state's assets are being sold out now. Two things I would like to stress and point out and in some way suggest that the government does take into account a substantial and serious consideration and prepare some changes to the legislation. The first relates to what I said in the introduction at the outset, to this part where Members have to give their consent to sell off State property of some small value that can be transferred by some sub-legislative regulation to those authorities that, of course, sell these things or find that they are unnecessary. Secondly, in a way, I would appeal to Members to request that, when we consider the sales decree for 2006, 2007 to get a real report on the actual results of the disposal of this state property over the last two, three years, that we have this list somewhere and that we see how it has been seized. I'm not going to list 200 items that are ridiculous, which we know are 10 times, 20 times, 30 times their real value, and we don't know what kind of money this was sold for. And if we already agree to these decrees, then at least what's fair is hygienic to even get back if they're pessimistic, these values to get real values for which they were sold. So I would suggest that somehow the government takes these two suggestions into account and that we are not hunting again for the same issues and dilemmas that we have today.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-28-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u59	Thank you, Mr. Kumer. And also a statement by the representative of the government of Master Roman Rep, State Secretary of the Ministry of Public Administration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-28-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u60	Thank you, Mr President, honourable Members and honourable Members. As far as the decision under the sales programme is concerned, it's interesting. Our proposal for this decree, first, contained a clear proposal which was given to explain all the items we have in this decree. Regrettably, this explanation was withdrawn because, of course, it was a matter of supplementing the decision already adopted in 2003, this decree also had to be prepared in accordance with the methodology or procedure in force in previous years. The objective of the government is certainly transparent and clear business with financial real estate. This is not to be proved, however, by this proposal of explanations. The decree is prepared for 2006 and 2007 on the basis of the new information system or information support prepared by the Ministry of Public Administration - I am also answering those questions or concerns about why today it represents the Ministry of Public Administration. We have only just set up a clear list or clear record for this information support, unfortunately only today. But I think that the basis for some transparent and transparent business is - of course, the first is a transparent record at all. At the beginning of 2003, the government adopted a regulation on real estate operations, where it then stated in the transitional provisions that it would establish an internal market within six months; unfortunately, we are only setting up an internal market today. We should probably have done it years ago. Thus, the government's objective is certainly transparent and clear business and management of this property. So we are based on the principle of a good master. Why are we dealing with this package today, which is slightly in excess of 3 billion? Because, unfortunately, you do not have these explanations that have been eliminated, I have to say again, but it would be clear from the explanations that we have within us objects or land that the country has not used or are the burden of the country for 10, 15 and more years. So, if you are placed in a position of guardian, we are interested in settling these matters as soon as possible and also selling back what the state does not need. Of course, all of this will not be possible in the last two months, but in the 2006 and 2007 decree we have also foreseen this situation, and in the transitional provisions we also propose a solution for those transactions or those projects that are now in the preparatory period and will not be completed by the next year can be done within the next two years. In short, it is not a waste of time or of Sisyphus’s work, but we follow that we are as transparent and as quick as possible. I would also like to say that as far as prices are concerned - and in particular the question of price was raised by the Member of Parliament. All prices contained in the decree are, of course, indicative, it is an estimated value, an indicative estimated value, and an official valuation will also be made before the sale itself. Thus, these prices will change, as far as sales are concerned, clearly - we will follow the sales that our legislation knows and try to get the most out of the bargain. As for the changes in legislation and inadequate regulation so far, we agree, the government is also aware of this and has promised certain changes at the beginning of this year. So it's also on a normative level. Here I have before me a bill on understanding with the real property of the country and the local community, it is in the final stage of coordination in the government, and it will soon come to this respected house. I think that this law will answer a number of questions, including ambiguities, or remove some of the obstacles that are now expressed through long - term procedures or ambiguities, including with regard to congregations or local communities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-28-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u61	Thank you, Mag. It's the tail. All the advertised debaters who wanted it got their word. Since the time for discussion has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss the matter under Rule 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Bajc, Mr Pece and a representative of the government responded. Anyone else? Mr. Squeakle. Anyone else? Everyone has five minutes. Mr. Bajc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-28-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u62	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the Group of Members, I said that whenever it is found that something is unnecessary for business, it is appropriate to sell it as soon as possible. Some colleagues have discussed everything for a long and wide period of time, just not what is stated in this proposal for a decree. I think that the Secretary of State is also partly the answer - the problem is that so far there is a legal regulation that there is no justification for individual items, in fact, that, if there is a problem, there would be a case in question. And if you tried to list only some of the things, the bigger ones in the proposal for a decree, you could find that it would be necessary or appropriate for some things to be settled long ago. In some cases, we see that this is, say, a land exchange that is valued, for example, if I were to say in concrete terms, on page 103, item 23, it is 175 million. Then, let's say you go to Golnik Hospital on page 105, item 59, where it's talking about 230 million. I went to check the explanation when Mr. Secretary of State mentioned it. It's a residential facility. The Golnik Hospital Board proposes to the Ministry that this sale may be made for occupied apartments on the basis of rental contracts. Then, say, on page 107, item 99, the newly built pipeline at the border crossing and so on. Before that, I have come to the floor with the Secretary of State, and I know specifically about the plot in K.o. Crushed, where land was purchased by the then Republic Road Administration for the purpose of building the highway - do you know when? In 1974! And now it's finished, construction in the k.o. It will no longer be scattered, not for export stations or toll stations, nor for motorways. Interest has shown that these land is being sold. And when I check these explanations a little bit, most of the land that the Ministry of Transport, the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads, Broadcasting or Offering for Sale has been purchased from land for the purpose of building motorways and accompanying facilities. In some areas these cases have been completed, surpluses of these lands have been identified and are to be sold. So once again, whenever a business unnecessary property is found, either these are land or facilities - there are a number of facilities that have been empty since 1991, when our premises have been abandoned by the Yugoslav Army, apartments, the JNA home, the garrison command, the guards at the border crossings and so on. I think it's a shame a lot of words. However, it is true that some things and I think that the Secretary of State has answered something here, but it is necessary to regulate, but actually with a basis, and I think that the government will come as soon as possible with this. [[...]] The question whether it is appropriate that this two months before the end of the 2004 budget period, 2005 is to deal with this today, I think, has also been answered when it is said that the decree, which is an integral part of the 2006 and 2007 budget, states that the property for which the decision or decision has already been taken by the National Assembly and will not be implemented in 2005, may be sold out in the implementation of the 2006 and 2007 budget. In short, I will support this decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-28-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u63	Thank you, Mr. Baitz. Mr. Pache, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-28-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u64	Thank you for saying that again. Maybe Comrade Bajc is right when he says we're discussing everything, just what it says in this decree. But let me make it up to you. The problem is, this decree doesn't say what it should say. I think that the right criticism of the government is if the National Assembly gives us a decision that is weak, which is severely flawed. I don't think any debater who was critical of the government objected to your theory that it is right that things that are empty, which are unprofitable to the government, should be resold. It is, of course, right, but I think it is imperative that we also talk about shares, market shares. This is not the case in this decree, and the main values or maximum machinations that we have witnessed in the last period are reached! We all know about the attempts to set up investigative commissions and the emphasis or desire that these things do not come to the fore. And all we want to do is, if we're already facing these kind of decisions about selling state real and financial property, we have at least a full picture of what was being sold. And now allow me to get even with the Secretary of State's reply, which says that the basic act envisaged for the meeting of the National Assembly was more complete, more comprehensive, if I understand you correctly. Then you can understand me, or yourself, that the title of the act you sent to the National Assembly is the decree on amendments and additions. This means that you have the opportunity to change and complement and that it is after confirming this change and complementarity that you have come to the National Assembly for a green light, whether you can do it or not. Then why didn't you complete it with that basic work required of you by Chapter 6 of the Public Finance Act requires Article 67 of the Public Finance Act and is later broken down, of course, into individual management, at least for the first time, the management of financial assets, then, secondly, the management of real property. So much for that. So I ask you, you are probably aware, therefore, that the decree you came before the National Assembly is contrary to the law on public finances, because it does not fulfil the main tasks that this law lays down for this decree that is before us today. But we all know the hierarchy of legal acts. I would also like to refer to the question raised before me by my colleague Friday, and to your answer regarding the valuation or value of individual items, which, although very few in this decree, I am surprised that these "a little bit more" have been made. I would like to stress, in the middle column, that the column where the value is expressed in Slovenian tolars says "valued in SIT". Someone is this appreciation if you used the word "appraised value," but you had to set it up. And now I really want to know who within your ministry or government, I don't know who was preparing this, sets an estimated value that doesn't reach a quarter of the market value. If Members - and just before - have been told by my colleague - and I think that everyone who reads at least daily newspapers knows that the values written here are, at least for the case that was previously exposed, that is, those properties in Maribor do not reach even one quarter of the value, I think that then more than justifiable criticism of the contributor of this material, especially because you have over the column that defines the content of these amounts is written "assessed value in the SIT". And if we come from this answer, where you found or where you highlighted it, I apologize that it is not the final price to meet the valuer once again with the matter. What does that mean, then, that we confirm in the National Assembly? Do we confirm the proposal for a basic proposal of baseline value, prices? Would it not make more sense for you to then take a second order and come before the national assembly as the legislative branch of authority with the data that you hold? Therefore, as we can conclude from your reply, none of these amounts can be trusted by the Members of the National Assembly and all those who are bound by this decree. I would like to ask for these explanations, and I also ask you to take my questions in good faith. In the final phase, we are talking about the sale of state property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-28-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u65	Thank you, Mr. Pechet. Mr. Squeakle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-28-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u66	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'd like to continue where my colleague Peca ended up. In fact, the problem is not just whether it says "valued" or "Framework Value" as, if I understand correctly, said Mr Rep. Everyone who knows a little bit about accounting, that I won't say accounting, knows what the difference is. If this is, for example, a framework value, then the valuation must only be made. The valuations shall be carried out by authorised evaluators. And even if the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, given that it is different departments, would carry out a procedure under the Public Procurement Act, which is the simplest, it is said, to carry out a so-called small order, all of this would take several weeks. So I don't even know how you're going to do any of this in 2005, unless you're taking a decision by the National Assembly to confirm this annex as the starting point for your business. Therefore, it is minimal, which would be expected, given what was said by the government, to be written here, I don't know, "baseline", "framed", and not "assessed value". In doing so, I also say this because the government has clearly forgotten some of the principles of the Public Finance Act, paragraph 3, of the Public Finance Act, the second paragraph of the Public Finance Act speaks of the objectives of the budget and the principles and says that "it is necessary to respect the principles of efficiency and cost-effectiveness in the preparation and resolution of the budget." Both principles are broken here. Effectiveness principle because this cannot be included in the 2005 budget. However, the principle of economics has been violated because, obviously, according to some of the indications given, the estimated value, which does not reflect even laymen, which we are probably Members as financial laymen, known prices on the market. However, I would like to remind you, Mr Government Representative, that it is true that the sixth chapter of this 80th article of the speech that the government can modify the asset sales programme in the course of the implementation of the budget, but it is very important that this article begins with the text that "it is in the process of preparing the draft budget to prepare a proposal for a sales programme". And of course, you still haven't answered that question, who and how will increase spending rights of 4 billion to individual budget users past the National Assembly? Let us remember that in this week, some Members, both as regards Mr Hanžk and as regards Mr Kos, have explained how impossible it is for them to spend during the four-year term of office, I don't know, some of you have spoken even a billion, although we know that, for example, the work of the anti-corruption commission at the annual level has been assessed by this government somewhere within 170 million. So you've compared 170 million to provide a transparent process, you've assessed them as unnecessary costs, and here we're increasing 4 billion to some of the resources because they're going to sell each other's assets. This way, I cannot get rid of the feeling even after this additional explanation by the representative of the government that there is an increasing lack of transparency. And one last thought. However, it is a decision on amendments and additions to the decision on the sale programme of state-owned and real estate. And that's why I'm surprised that because it's a financial asset, it's not written here in front of the Minister of Finance. The ruling coalition could today propose to include, for example, the sale of 100% of the shares of the New Bank of Maribor, and we would not have with us a finance minister who, for example, could assess this from the point of view of its reform of powers. I must therefore deny what has been said to be a continuation of the system's work in the past. That's not true. In the past this has been done by the Ministry of Finance and in the past we have changed these matters once a year, not as it is now, for the fourth time since 2005. That is why in the House of Members we will oppose this decision and personally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-28-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u67	Thank you, Mr. Squeakle. Master Rap, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-28-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u68	Thank you, Mr. President. If I can find out immediately, of course, it is not about continuing the system's work in this area from the past, because when we talk about real property, there was no system. We have established the system in the last year by setting up records, by setting up databases and internal market. As far as financial work is concerned - there is no financial work, because there was no proposal in this area. But I can assure you when we have a decree that will also include this financial segment, that all the government representatives responsible will be here. And we're talking about real property today, so I think this thing is clear. I'd like another answer from before because I forgot. I mean, as far as the wedding's concerned. Of course, the government will be in office by the end of the year, and it is obliged to prepare a report and this report will also come to Parliament. The round of evaluation: as I said, this is an estimated value, the value set by the focal points or ministries that have or manage this property will be followed by an official valuation by the evaluators. However, all procedures are carried out as our Slovenian legislation stipulates, from the law on public finances to the regulation already mentioned. But as for the purpose of the purchase, I'd just like to say that. I believe that the Public Finance Act is clear in this area and allows only purposeful use of funds, and in these cases too, it will be possible to make a deliberate, transparent use of funds. No other manipulation or any other abuse is, of course, possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-28-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u69	Thank you, Master Repet. Two proposals for a procedural proposal. We have concluded with the debate, to be clear, we have two proposals. First, Mr. Pache raised his hand. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-28-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u70	Respectable present. The Secretary of State pointed out that he had made two points. For the first time, I quote, "The Public Finance Act is clear." Secondly, he pointed out that in today’s case, we are only talking about the sale of real property. This means that the title of the decree before us today is wrong. This should be the decision to sell so-called real estate. Mr President, I appreciate that we have finally come to the bottom of things, that it is reasonable for you to conclude not only the debate but the consideration of this act before the vote and that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia comes with a law corresponding to the title or with an address corresponding to the content. The act before us has been confirmed by the Secretary of State, aware that it is inadequate and does not comply with Slovenian legislation, nor with the tasks set out in the Law on Public Finances. I think that together we are all obliged to respect the rule of law, and above all to respect the transparency and protection of citizens and citizens. And by adopting my procedural proposal, we would have satisfied each other, and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia would have called for the acts it offers to the State Assembly for adoption to work transparently. Please, if you consider a procedural proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-28-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u71	I understand the procedural proposal within the meaning of the first paragraph of Rule 74 of the Rules of Procedure and you propose to postpone the decisions on the hearing to one of the following meetings. Okay? And another procedural proposal. Mr. Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-28-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u72	My procedural proposal is linked to what has just been said. I am not going to explain what Mr Pece said, there is some logic in this, in fact a certain decree that changes only one part of the decree and the content does not reflect the form. But it's true, and here I think my problem is what I want to point out. Members could also propose the inclusion of financial assets, so we have the right to table amendments. And to say that the Minister of Finance isn't here because no real estate sale is wrong. Members have the right - at least I think we have it - to put it in and one of the ruling parties, for example, I don't know if that's what the opposition would have wanted or even suggested a change in the financial assets, and then we would have a conversation without a competent minister. But it's up to the professional services to decide, I'm just giving you, I'd say, a suggestion that next time you ensure the presence of the Minister of Finance. My procedural proposal concerns what I think is a major problem. Indeed, we have not received a report on the closure of the 2004 asset sales programme in the National Assembly on the basis of Article 80. In so doing, let me remind you that, in accordance with the Public Finance Act, the budget is an annual act and we will consider the final budget account for 2004, but the government's programme or report on the completion of the asset sales programme in 2004 is missing. You said it would be, I wonder when it would be. If you bring it in as a joint report on the programme for 2004 and 2005, then we will discuss it sometime in November 2006, once we have confirmed the final account for 2004. As a minimum procedural proposal, I would therefore propose, or an additional decision, that the Government, before or before the 2004 final accounts are processed, submit to the National Assembly a report on the completion of the sale of the 2004 asset programme as provided for in Article 80 of the Public Finance Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-28-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u73	Unfortunately, Mr Squeakl, this is not a procedural proposal that could be put to the vote. This could be an additional decision to be tabled in the course of the debate and so on. This alone is not a procedural decision and cannot be considered as a proposal for a procedural decision. This concludes Do you have any procedural proposals? [[...]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-28-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u74	Then it is my procedural proposal to propose that you stop the debate on this programme of the decree on amendments and additions to the decision on the sales programme for state and financial assets for 2004 and 2005 in accordance with the provisions of Article 80 of the Public Finance Act. Because the conditions are not met, because we do not have what article 80th of the Public Finance Act says and the government is speaking clearly and this has also been said that this report will be transmitted. So the report is known, it would be good to change it, of course to deal with such a report, so my procedural proposal to stop the debate on this, before the end of the debate, especially with what we are doing now, and then, of course, once we have such a report, we will be able to learn, of course, which of this - 2004 - has been sold, we have more information that what we are doing here for 2005, a month and a half, two months before the end of the financial year or the month before the end of the financial year, is completely pointless. Such a procedural proposal, however, I think we could put it to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-28-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u75	Unfortunately, Mr Squeakl, this is not a procedural proposal either, because the debate is closed, exhausted in its entirety and I cannot stop because it is no longer there. This concludes this agenda item. I am also adjourning the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 1300 hours, starting with the vote on the procedural proposal put forward by Mr Pece.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-28-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u76	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! We continue to end the 21st item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the proposal for a decree amending and supplementing the Decision on the Sales Programme of State Finance and Real Estate for 2004 and 2005. On the proposal of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, in accordance with Rule 74 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that the decision on the proposal for a decree amending and supplementing the Decision on the sale programme for national financial and real property for 2004 and 2005 be postponed to one of the following meetings. Representatives of parliamentary groups may give their views on this proposal. Who wants a word? Mr. Sasha Patch, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-28-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u77	Ladies and gentlemen of the court! Now you are more present than in the morning work. I would like to convince you that the National Assembly, as a legislative branch of government, deserves at least enough to obtain material appropriate to the title of the material, or at least vice versa, that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will make at least enough effort to identify the title and content. On the other hand, the procedural proposal of the Slovenian National Party is extremely important for all taxpayers or for all those who participate in any form of public finances transfers, and this is every single one of us. Today’s material for the meeting of the National Assembly and for subsequent decision-making shall bear the title, as the President of the National Assembly has said, of the sale of state financial and real property. But whoever looked at the act saw that at least one of the two features of this title, financial or real property, was not fulfilled in its contents. There is no indication anywhere in the material which equity shares were sold during the period 2004, despite this - and in my opinion this is one of the main arguments - that a strong debate on investigative commissions took place in the last month in the National Assembly. That almost every Member of the National Assembly has attached its signature to at least one request for an investigative commission, and thus all of you at some media level have shown an interest in the state's property. Now we can finally get a material corresponding to the title, so that we can even know what was sold in 2004 from real estate and what was sold from financial assets. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has approached us with a lack of content. According to my assessment, this content, the lack of content, is detrimental to the further development of public finances in our country and I propose that the government prepare a decree with the content to correspond to the title in this period until the next regular meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-28-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u78	Thank you, Mr. Pechet. Is there any other group that would like to take a stand? Mr. Squeakle on behalf of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-28-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u79	We will support the procedural proposal because we believe that this is the only way to align the content as much as possible with the form. However, in the entire debate, both on the labour market and today, we have pointed out the non-transparency of the way in which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia introduces, through this fourth, the establishment of a programme for the sale of state financial and real property for 2005. Let us remember first, at the end of 2003, then in 2004 and during this government, twice. Therefore, we believe that this width, the possibility of procedure, is one that would at least warn the government a little bit, if, of course, we vote that, when setting up a sales programme for state and real property, it will actually change; first think about how to carry out the appropriate valuations, with appreciation, define the content of the individual item it sells, and then, of course, on the basis of these valuations, on the basis of the tenders made, it also reports accordingly. We also regret, of course, that we will not vote on another procedural proposal, this is that it is necessary to stop the debate on the completion of the 2005 asset sales programme and first to gain the 2004 programme because we would in fact find that there is no reason, no reason to discuss a month and a half before the end of the financial year such an important addition to the increase in sales opportunities, for the exchange of real property. The only real reason we are doing this in this National Assembly is that the National Assembly will provide coverage for some of the transactions already made, but since we will obviously end the anti-corruption commission at the same time, the relationship is undoubtedly clear. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which took up its mandate on 3 December, is acting intransparency and this decision proves this. When, of course, we consider programmes and the implementation of the Slovenian Compensation Society programme in this National Assembly in the coming weeks and then, I hope, we will not get to the Mercator Investigation Commission at some point, the whole logic of this government will, of course, become clearer. We therefore oppose this decision, but we will first support the procedural proposal as the only option. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-28-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u80	Thank you. Mr. Kumer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-28-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u81	Thank you for your word. We will also support this proposal in our parliamentary group, because, as we have already said earlier on the item itself, this material for today's meeting is extremely poorly prepared, much worse than that amendment of the decree in March; and not only that! In March, the government and the proposer promised that they would amend certain sub-laws and, of course, make sure that some ideas, the comments given on what this decision on the sale of state property would look like - within eight months, they did nothing. We therefore support and give the government another opportunity to come up with a well-prepared decision to discuss the sale of state property in 2006 and 2007.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-28-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u82	Thank you, Mr. Kumer. Since no one wants to discuss or comment on the position of their parliamentary group, we are moving to a vote on the procedural proposal. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 69 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 45. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 45.]] I note that the proposal of the SNS Group of Members has not been adopted. I hereby end this item of the agenda and move on to the vote of the assembly on the proposals for decisions. First, we continue with the 18th paragraph of the agenda, which is to deal with the proposal for a law on compensation for victims of crime. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LDS Group to Article 2. Anybody want to explain? Yes, here you go, Mrs. Lavtiger Bebler.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-28-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u83	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. In the LDS, we advocate the fact that by extending the range of beneficiaries to the country, the burden of compensation is not borne by all victims of crime and their relatives, but only by the immediate family members and only in the event of the death of the victim. If a criminal procedure is instituted, a property claim may be applied in criminal proceedings, if it is not introduced, shall be brought to justice. According to the applicant, the purpose of the bill is to ensure that the State, on the basis of this proposal, immediately enters into a relationship with the injured party, recognises a certain injury and also pays it, irrespective of the course of the criminal procedure. If the beneficiary has the right to compensation irrespective of whether the perpetrator is known or whether the criminal procedure has been instituted, i.e. the right to compensation, we see no reason why compensation would not be recognised to persons entitled to it under the bond code and would thus be allowed to pay them as soon as possible, which is the core purpose of the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-28-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u84	Thank you. Mrs. Shirca, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-28-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u85	I also think that the amendment's proposal makes sense not only for a human reason, because the situation, if faced with the situation, would, however, be a concrete situation when death or illness occurs, but we would see that life situations are significantly more painful and significantly more responsible than they may be here today from office space sometimes. In fact, it is not a way in which this amendment would be understood as social support, but it is a compensation that could also be available to beneficiaries who are supported by family members, even to children over 18 years of age who may not have confirmed for a certain period that they are students. Reasons, why, could be more. And to the others that fall out of this list - and we have already explained that today. This is not a major enlargement, but it is humane and certainly also legally justified, and in the end we could follow the arrangements we have in the UK when things are being resolved here in a very different way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-28-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u86	Thank you. A colleague of Bajc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-28-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u87	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I will not support this amendment with the following justification. I think we dealt with another law the day before yesterday, which was marked by the expansion of beneficiaries of something. In this particular law, these same colleagues and colleagues extend certain entitlements. I think that the basic point of this law - I think it is Article 2 - in Article 2, those who are supposed to be entitled are fully covered. And to extend beneficiaries who would be entitled to material injury, I think it is pointless. That's why I won't support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-28-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u88	Thank you. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 46. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. I'm finishing second reading. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments were adopted in the second reading to the amended proposal, it is not possible to table amendments in the third reading. That's why we're moving on to a decision on the law. At the same time, I inform you that the legislature or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia have not informed me that the law would not be harmonised. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 60 votes against none. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 21st item of the agenda - the consideration of the proposal for a decree on amendments and additions to the decision on the sale programme of state-owned and real estate for 2004 and 2005. As no amendments have been tabled to the supplementary motion for a decree, we are moving on to a decision on the decision. In doing so, I inform you that the Government or the Legal and Legislative Service has not informed me that the decision would be inconsistent. Does anyone want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? My friend Zagorac.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-28-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u89	Thank you for your word, chairman. Your Honors are here! We will not support this decision in the Slovenian National Party. The reasons for this are something already mentioned by his colleague Peca in the debate. In the decree, there are large anomalies between the sales prices at which the government sells real property and the prices that this real property would have achieved on the market. He was already exposed to the case of a four-bedroom apartment in the center of Maribor, which was sold by the government for 10 million Slovenian tolars. At that time, I myself checked how much such an apartment would cost or at what cost a certain real estate agency would buy such an apartment today. And they told me it was worth somewhere between 24 million and 28 million Slovenian tolars, not 10. I think that with this decree and such appreciation - it would be interesting to find out who really valued this property - the government actually recognises the damage to state property itself. Therefore, we will not support this decree in the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-28-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u90	Thank you. The text is by Ambassador Squeakl. Mag. Squeakle, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-28-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u91	In the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we will vote against the adoption of the decision amending and supplementing the decision on the property sales programme for the following reasons. Firstly, because it is a non-transparent decision because it is a decree which in fact constitutes the legalisation of trade under a table a month and a half before the end of the financial year and because this adoption makes the national assembly an integral part of this trade. We had a long debate on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, and the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service was that it was not appropriate, as proposed by the decree, to adopt some programme for the sale of property. This is not even a sales programme, it is simply a list of the wishes of ministries, which we would like to get rid of, a list of some minimum estimated values for which we have found in the debate today that they are not evaluated at all, but are possible accounting values, perhaps indicative values, as Mr State Secretary said, and then with some explanation. What is missing is probably the fourth column in this table, who is the recipient of this. And the key issue that arises in the decision on amendments and additions to the decision on the sale programme of state-owned property is that the Public Finance Act, when entering the European Union, defined the way in which assets are managed. One of the basic principles should be the principle of economic governance, because that is what every good master does. Who thinks that transparently with the aim of optimising the earnings of a month and a half, it is possible to first produce, in accordance with the process of making or hiring small-time valuers, to obtain pricers, to produce valuations and then to make public calls, he simply does not know Slovenian public finances and the rules of conduct in the European Union countries, and I therefore suggest that you, Members and Members of Parliament reject this. This will give the government the opportunity to bring this decree into a substantive alignment by the end of the year, to put it into an appropriate valuation decree and then to include it in the 2006 and 2007 decrees. In the meantime, acceptance means trading under the table, and means that some budgetary users are given an additional 4 billion spending opportunity without the possibility of Slovenian taxpayers being able to exercise strict control over the implementation of such transactions. The wrong and inadequate judgment of the new government is against this.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-28-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u92	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of Members, Mr Kumer.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-28-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u93	Thank you for your word. In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats of this proposal, we will not adopt a correction of the decree for two reasons: for the first time, because it is a decree that retroactively corrects the 2004 and 2005 budget as well. And secondly, because there are many things that have not been realized by the government or the proposer in this year’s first amendment. Thus today, Members and Members of Parliament re-adopt a motion for a decree in which the values on individual items are to quote what the Secretary of State said in March to the question of what these values or prices are, I quote: "Well, this estimated value, which is mentioned in the decree, is only an approximation. A more pessimistic approximation. This is not the value that you Members would agree to sell the property, but it will be found at a public auction." - end of quote. After eight months, we have a second proposal for this correction, we have no report, no review to see this pessimistic value, whether it has any real value. It wasn't at the end of the debate, we don't have today and we'll probably never see it. Therefore, once again on behalf of the Group of Members: we will not support this motion for a decree.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-28-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u94	Thank you. Member Gulic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-28-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u95	Mr. President-in-Office. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Of course, I will not support this decision's proposal for a simple reason, because, of course, it is prepared so very, very domestically. Because there are numbers in the columns just like that and, of course, this certainly does not speak of transparency and honesty. If I say more at home. It seems to me that the government is not abandoning its activities, it seems to me that the state still has value, and therefore it seems to me that this time is really not suitable for sale in action. However, since it will be obvious that some of the assets will be sold out as in the action, of course I strongly recommend myself, and I also recommend that citizens and citizens who like to buy like this, pay two, get three to participate in this sale, evenly and evenly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-28-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u96	Thank you. Member Friday, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-28-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u97	Thank you, Vice President. Apparently, from my case here, there was a reptile of what you didn't actually have, and, apparently, we, too, were quite aware of when we were reading this material. So, Members of the Coalition, it would be nice to look at some material and not blindly believe those who were preparing it. Above all, look in your environment, where you live and find out how many anomalies there are in these numbers, how many potential abuses, how many possibilities of underestimating all of these values and probably the potential frauds in the back. So I lay on your soul to take our warning for real. Only from these cases that we have mentioned has it come out, only from these cases that I have mentioned have at least 30 million fallen out of one apartment, let alone in all other cases, if we go to read accurately. For this reason, it would be correct and right to take the time, together with us who are proposing to stop this matter, today we do not vote and let the government draw up a document in which you, too, do not blindly trust, but trust on the basis of the facts and arguments that will be presented to you in detail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2005-10-28-SDZ4-Redna-10.ana.u98	Thank you. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 24. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 24.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the second item on the agenda - this is the third reading of the proposal for a double price labelling law in Tolars and Euros. On Tuesday, 24.10. this year, the National Assembly held a second reading of the bill. As amendments have not been adopted to the draft law, we are moving, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, to a decision on the law. On the basis of paragraph 5 of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the legislative and legal services and the government have not warned me that the law would not be inconsistent with the adopted amendments. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present. 50 votes against 4. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the third item on the agenda, which is the third reading of the proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the law on hospitality. On Tuesday, 24.10. this year, the National Assembly held a second reading of the bill. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, we are moving, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, to a decision on the law. On the basis of paragraph 5 of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the legislature or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia have not warned me that the law would not be harmonised due to the amendments adopted. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 44 votes against 22. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 22.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the fourth item on the agenda, which is the third reading of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on employment and the work of foreigners. On Tuesday, 24.10.2005, the National Assembly held a second reading of the bill. As amendments are not tabled in the draft law, we are moving, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, to a decision on the law. On the basis of Article 140(5) of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the legislature and the Government have not notified me of any non-compliance with the amendments adopted. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 65 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 65.9 (No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. This concludes this agenda item. We are moving on to a follow-up to item 5 of the agenda, which is the third reading of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the noble metal product law. On Tuesday, 24.10. this year, the National Assembly held a second reading of the bill. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, we are moving, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, to a decision on the law. On the basis of Rule 140, paragraph 5, of the Rules of Procedure, I inform you that the legislature and the Government have not warned me that the law would not be harmonised because of the amendments adopted. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 68 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 68.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. And that concludes this agenda item. The National Assembly is moving on to the 7th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the transport of dangerous goods. On Wednesday, 25.10. this year, the National Assembly held a second reading of the bill. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, we are moving, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, to a decision on the adoption of the law. On the basis of paragraph 5 of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the legislature and the Government have not warned me that the law would not be harmonised due to the amendments adopted. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 70 Members and Members of Parliament voted in favour. [[The vote was 70.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the continuation of the 9th item of the agenda, which is to the third reading of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on criminal procedure. On Wednesday, 25.10. this year, the National Assembly held a second reading of the bill. As amendments have not been adopted to the draft law, we are moving, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, to a decision on the law. On the basis of Rule 140, paragraph 5, of the Rules of Procedure, I inform you that the legislature and the Government have not warned me that the law would not be harmonised because of the amendments adopted. We're voting. Peace in the hall. There are 66 Members and Members present, 45 votes in favour, 19 votes in favour. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 19.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also conclude the 10th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Good-bye and good-bye.
